i-EMF9yj2vQ7EpufxRTerN5T	Mr President, I would like to Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Ola Johansson has asked me whether and when the Government intends to refer the Swedish Government's inquiry, whether the Government intends to present a proposal that involves changes to the rules on the management of the land in Chapter 3. the environmental code, if the government intends to review the content and provisions of Chapter 4. Section 1 – 4 of the Environmental Code and of the Government, following the final report, intend to give some additional assignments to Boverket and other sectoral authorities. In 2014, the then government appointed a special investigator who was tasked with looking at the rules for national interests and proposing amendments. The assignment was presented on 2 December 2015, when the so-called "National Interest Investigation" handed over the final report "Planning and decisions for sustainable development" (SOU 2015:99) to the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The issue is currently being prepared in the Government Office. It is therefore not appropriate to carry out a further review at this stage.
i-SApCGjBMuFs2iwreDkdsug	Mr President, I would like to Good morning, Prime Minister and viewers! The investigator appointed by the previous government was asked to propose a system of national interests that would be safe, simple, transparent and understandable and facilitate uniform application throughout the country. The investigator's proposal would provide a regulatory framework for the management of land and water areas and, in particular, areas of national interest, which are appropriate, adaptable over time, focused on essential and current needs and which do not lead to unnecessary restrictions on the use of land and water areas or on the planning of their use. I thank you for your answer on the investigation, although it is a great disappointment for those who had expectations of this work. How to interpret the office building Swedish? On the one hand, it is said that a question is being prepared. On the other hand, it is said that there is no need to carry out a further review at the moment. What's being prepared? And what is the purpose of the preparation, if it is not to do a review at the moment? The Alliance appointed Director General Elisabet Falemo as investigator after criticism from the National Audit Office, which included the fact that the government's handling of national interests makes housing construction difficult and that the county boards are unable to gather these national interests as a basis for the municipal housing planning. In the Government's letter on this matter, the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism was explained. When the letter was discussed in the Riksdag, Åsa Romson as a member of the opposition had nothing to object to. The government gave the message that it intended to set up this investigation, which you then supported in committee and in this House. Now it is you who have received the investigation. It contains legislative proposals that involve amendments to the Environmental Code, the Planning and Construction Act and the Savings Regulation. Then you have to take responsibility. One can criticise the proposals for being too far-reaching or inadequate. However, if you do not even refer the investigation but refrain from acting, it requires an explanation that is better than that presented in the brief answer that I have received to a serious and important question. Half of Sweden's land area is covered by overlapping national interests. At the time of the Swedish National Audit Office's review, 60 per cent of the country's municipalities reported a housing shortage. Today, three years later, almost all, 250 of the country's 290 municipalities, report a lack of housing. Why this is and what we can do about it is another debate. But this serves as a background to why I find the Minister's answer today remarkable. If the government takes the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism as seriously as the previous government did but dislikes the outcome of the investigation, there should be two choices. The first is to send the investigation for a referral, confirm the criticism and then make suggestions for other solutions. The second is to set up a new investigation and give the directive that leads to the answers you wish. The Government may forgive me, but in this context I wonder: What does it mean to prepare a question without intending to do anything about it?
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-17	Mr President, I would like to The answer from the government, as I explained, is that the government has not yet come to a decision either to make a referral or to do something else. Before taking a position on this, Mr President, it is too early to go into the substance of the matter and discuss any changes that might be made in this area. This is the time in Sweden – that's how we prepare matters. What the government does to ensure cooperation with the municipalities for increased housing construction in Sweden is to push for strong, concrete and clear financial incentives and, not least, to gather together here in Parliament with the parties of the Riksdag to ensure, within the framework of the housing talks, that we can have a common understanding that the state and the municipalities must cooperate and that the municipalities must be pressured to build more. It is the government's view that these roads are now much more important and must be kept open. The Government will come back with decisions regarding the handling of the Government inquiry. But no such decisions have yet been made.
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-20	Mr President, I would like to This probably gave some explanation. The preparation is ongoing because this is difficult. It's a big matter to get into. But time is running out, and the situation regarding housing is becoming increasingly acute, as I mentioned in my previous speech. I can briefly tell the Government and the other audience, listeners and viewers what is being proposed. The study emphasises the value of an overall assessment in which interests can be better balanced. It provides an increased opportunity for municipalities themselves to balance these in their plans. There will be greater clarity in that the government and the state through the County Administrative Board will have a clearer role than they have had so far. The study identifies farmland and drinking water supply as something that according to the Planning and Construction Act must be taken into account in municipal planning. Boverket becomes the authority that continues to have to keep registers of national interests. It should be the authority that stands for knowledge and supervision of national interests. A new concept is introduced: essential public interest. This should be able to be housing construction, and in cases where it is justified, it may overwhelm a national interest, if the government deems it necessary. In the discussions on the need for housing mentioned by the Government and which I myself participate in, it would be welcome to be able to discuss the importance of national interests as well. Perhaps there can be a discussion about the examples the Government sets out as its way of solving the housing shortage. I do not think that is enough, but I think that there is also a need for regulatory simplification. It replaces the concept of substantial damage, which is perceived to be softer and to some extent reverses the burden of proof, with the concept of satisfying interest. Despite the solid work that has been done – possibly to no avail – the investigator recommends that Chapter 4. The environmental code is further reviewed. This chapter contains descriptions of interests that feel outdated and alien to today's planners. Above all, they are diffuse and lack proper value descriptions. I have reiterated before that it is not my job here to promote the investigation. It is questionable whether the proposals are sufficient to remove conflicts of interest between safety values and construction, given the large housing shortage that is ahead of us with the need for routes for public transport and high-speed trains. There are many examples in this country where national interests have been problematic, such as the move of Kiruna where urban development is hindered by Natura 2000, nature reserves and other national interests that overlap, cultural environment, reindeer industry, tourism, communication and minerals. The whole of Mälaren I have just learned is a national interest in professional fishing. When was the last time we saw a shrimp trawler there? Joke aside! A national interest is probably justified at some point, but hardly relevant. If a national interest does not feel appropriate, how can we trust that the 1,700 national interests that exist in the country for cultural environmental protection only do not contain those that are out of date, are not based on a factual assessment of the protection value today and still do not prevent the densification of housing and the expansion of public transport, cycle paths or housing? Mr President, I would like to The system is in question, and it is considered difficult to understand. The answer to my question is whether the government intends to review Chapter 3. Environmental Code, Chapter 4. The Environmental Code and Natural Resources Act and if the government intends to give any assignments in line with what the investigator proposes was as far as I understood no. But now it suddenly became a maybe. How hastily is it to respond to the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism, if it is repeated, that you have not taken the necessary steps to sort out the state's handling of things that may constitute obstacles to the sustainable development of housing and infrastructure?
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-31	Mr President, I would like to I repeat that the government has acted concretely to build housing, to maintain and to build new infrastructure. We see it as extremely important. Sweden is growing. There are few forecasts that point to anything other than a continuing large housing shortage if we do not get the housing building going even higher, although I am pleased to note that the construction under this government's ownership has increased significantly. This requires more than investigations into national interests, which are certainly a complex xt system, which has its problems and which is criticised, but where the obvious alternatives have not yet come to light, although there are certainly merits in this investigation that point to opportunities. The government will take a position on this, but I think it is wise to put the party-wide and housing-building projects first and foremost in order to ensure that the rules of the rules for housing operators are as clear and clear as possible. It is also about the pressure and seriousness that this hall puts behind the municipalities' important task of ensuring buildable land and getting construction started. Rule-simplifications are important. There have been a number under both the previous government and this government, but further incentives are needed. This government is going in with powerful financial incentives. The government decided last night at the government meeting to clarify the aid in case of land remediation, in order to further facilitate the remediation of contaminated land so that housing can be built. The government works step by step, but the long-term discussions on housing construction are also needed. Therein lies the question of the relationship with the municipalities. I am pleased that the Centre Party is actively involved in the work and that the honourable Member can contribute to those talks. Hopefully you will also be able to move forward on this issue. With this, Mr President, I do not think I can respond more and better to the question right now. We'll have to get back to you.
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-37	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. Then we can reason on the relationship between the municipalities and the state. It became clear when the Prime Minister's colleague Kristina Persson, our future minister, let the former spokesperson Maria Wetterstrand and the municipal director of Örebro, Jonas Karlsson, make proposals in an analysis group for green conversion and competitiveness. This group emphasises the role of regions and municipalities to take the lead in sustainability work. They particularly highlighted the interaction between the national and local levels. Self-governing municipalities in the region are driving development work forward. They wonder why not all do the same when they should ask why not more people do more and take their own initiative. Yes, there are limitations at national level. We need to move from a regulatory culture to a culture of trust. This is precisely what the national interest investigation is about, i.e. to create greater opportunities for municipalities to make their own decisions and to clarify what applies so that they dare to take the necessary initiatives for housing, infrastructure and sustainable development. It is a pity that this issue has not come to light before. I would like to take this opportunity because this may be one of the last appearances that Åsa Romson makes in a while as a minister. I would like to thank her for her dedicated and committed work as Minister of Climate and Environment and for her efforts as spokesperson. She is a compassionate person for the people who are in need and on the run. Getting a climate agreement signed in Paris is something you should be credited for, although the foundation was laid by the former center party environmental ministers Andreas Carlgren and Lena Ek. I hope that we will meet again soon for a common battle for the climate and for a non-toxic everyday life. ( THE PRESIDENT: The President agrees with what Ola Johansson has said. )
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-42	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Climate and Environment thanks for the warm words. I also thank you for a debate on an engaging topic on how we can make the best use of the natural resources we have in Sweden, both for a growing Sweden with a growing population, more housing and more infrastructure, and for the long-term exploitation of our natural resources. It's necessary.
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-43	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me how I will ensure that NATO is informed, in accordance with section 11.2 of the Host Country Support Agreement, of the contradiction in the NPT and NATO's own doctrine. He has also asked me what measures Sweden has taken to ensure that a possible memorandum of understanding on host country support does not mean that NATO can enter or transit nuclear devices into Swedish territory. Finally, Stig Henriksson has asked me whether I intend to work towards a ban on nuclear weapons in Sweden like that in Finland. Nuclear weapons may not be introduced or placed in Sweden. It is a fundamental Swedish position that I am sure all parties support. Our position is well known both among our partners and in the rest of the world. For decades Sweden has clearly highlighted the Swedish position to the outside world, for example through speeches at the UN General Assembly. Our position not to acquire nuclear weapons or to allow such weapons to be placed on Swedish territory or admitted by visiting states during visits applies, of course, both before and after the host country support agreement enters into force. The Swedish position on this issue is in no way affected by the host country support agreement. In this context, I would also like to point out that the freedom of military alliance and its principles are not, in any sense, disturbed by the host country support agreement. It is based on continued military alliance freedom and broad cooperation with other countries that we best promote peace and security for Sweden, in our neighbourhood, in Europe and globally. As is clear from the bill on the host country support agreement, which is due to be debated here in Parliament in a few days' time, the agreement is based entirely on voluntaryity. In no way does the host country support agreement imply that Sweden waives its territorial integrity. It is still Sweden that decides when foreign forces may visit the country and what type of activities they may carry out here. This scheme applies both before and after the host country support agreement. Nothing in the agreement gives NATO the right or any individual state the right to operate here alone or to bring in and place nuclear weapons, or other weapons systems, in Sweden. There is no room for NATO to establish base areas or base units against Swedish will here either. When operations are conducted in Sweden, following the Swedish invitation and decision, the visiting forces are obliged to comply with the conditions that Sweden lays down for the visit. This follows from the principle of international law of sovereignty and applies regardless of the agreement applicable to the operation. We do not allow nuclear weapons to be placed here, and this also applies, of course, to activities that can be carried out under the Host Country Support Agreement. Nothing is changed by this agreement. Both before and after the host country support agreement, our cooperation with other countries is based on trust and good bi- and multilateral relations. Section 11.2 of the Host Country Support Agreement states that the agreement does not intend to violate Swedish law or our international commitments. The same section also provides that the parties shall inform each other in the event of such conflict. Since the agreement does not give NATO any right whatsoever to introduce and place nuclear weapons in Sweden, there is no contradiction to be discussed. However, during the negotiations, Sweden has informed NATO that our legislation, for example in the field of taxation, needs to be amended in order to meet our commitments under the agreement. It is these legislative changes that are now proposed in the bill. The host country support agreement may be applied after the legislative amendments have entered into force. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that I am against nuclear weapons and do not intend to work for nuclear weapons to be placed in Sweden. I assume that all Swedish politicians have the same view on this issue. I would also like to point out that international work on nuclear disarmament is a priority for the government. In accordance with our commitments under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT, we are working towards the elimination of all nuclear weapons. In addition, this government has re-established a delegation for international law and disarmament with the task of monitoring and analysing developments in the field of humanitarian law and disarmament. The purpose of the delegation is to develop proposals for Swedish positions and initiatives on issues related to humanitarian law and disarmament.
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-52	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you are almost amazed, because in the debate it sounds like nothing will be affected in principle by this agreement. One might wonder what we should have it for at all if nothing will be affected by it. There is great concern about how the host country agreement will affect Sweden's nuclear freedom. It is a freedom that has been self-evident ever since the Social Democrats and others finally gave up on a Swedish atomic weapon, as late as 1968 formally. The Secretary of Defense has been irritatingly waving the questions away for as long as possible. But the fact is that the host country agreement does not say a single word about nuclear weapons; they are not mentioned. The 239 pages of the Ministry letter on the agreement completely fail to mention nuclear weapons. I have therefore put these three questions to the Minister for Defence. My first question is: how will the Minister ensure that NATO, in accordance with section 11.2 of the Host Country Agreement, is informed of the contradiction in their interpretation of the NPT, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and NATO's own doctrine and practice? What is the Minister's response? 中 Nuclear weapons may not be introduced or placed in Sweden. It is a fundamental Swedish position that I am sure all parties support. Our attitude is well known. Why, then, is it not in the agreement? After all, unilateral declarations have much less value. I do not think it is possible to base security policy on assumptions that are so loose. So my question was about the discrepancy between the Non-Proliferation Treaty and NATO doctrine and practice. This is not mentioned in one word. My second question concerns what guarantees Sweden has that a possible host country agreement does not mean that NATO can enter or transit nuclear devices into Swedish territory. I don't get an answer to that question. My third question is whether the Minister intends to promote a clear ban on nuclear weapons like what exists in Finland. I don't get an answer to that question either. I'm a little surprised if this is so obvious. Barely a year ago, I asked the Minister for Defence a question if he had made sure that the B52 planes that practiced over Sweden did not carry nuclear weapons. In reply to my written question, the Minister wrote that the rule requires visiting states to comply with Swedish law. It is not compatible with the Act( 1984:3) on nuclear activities to bring such cargo into Swedish territory without permission. ..................................................... But that wasn't true, was it? Why did the Minister refer to this law? It only regulates the civilian use of nuclear power and does not treat nuclear weapons at all. Both the work of the Act and its context clearly state that civil nuclear power is the subject of the Act. In addition, the government, which then happens to be in power, can grant exemptions without requesting the approval of the Riksdag. That law cannot therefore be invoked. Furthermore, we do not ask whether visiting countries have nuclear weapons. And if we ask, we know the United States isn't answering. Finland has a clear signal in its 1987 Nuclear Energy Act. It is forbidden to bring nuclear weapons into Finland. So the questions remain. How do you point out the discrepancy between NPT and US practice? What guarantees, and I mean guarantees, do Sweden have? Does the Minister intend to promote a law of bans similar to that in Finland and to check that it is also being enforced? And why, in his written reply, did the Minister refer to a law that does not apply?
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-64	Mr President, I would like to The host country agreement regulates customs matters, tax matters, motor insurance issues, motor insurance regulations, protection areas and immunity issues. These are things that are linked to exercise activities that are conducted and will be conducted in the future and then facilitate a number of administrative things in connection with carrying out the exercise activities. No exercise activities are carried out with less than that there is an invitation from the Swedish Government. This Parliament has also adopted an orientation proposal that requires deeper bilateral and multilateral conditions and where the work before it had a broad consensus in the Defence Committee that we should also proceed with the host country agreement. It is also something that is provided for in the orientation bill. In this context, the Government and I, as Minister of Defence, are pursuing what Parliament has previously set out to do. In addition, the host country agreement is about preparing to provide and receive assistance in a crisis situation of a civilian or military nature. The closest example we have of how such things can be done – depending on the scenario and the situation – is what is happening now under the Treaty of Lisbon 42.7 within the framework of the European Union, where we have made it clear here in Parliament that we are going to stand up for France with transport flights, certain materials and a number of other measures as support on the basis of that principle. As far as nuclear weapons are concerned, I have said in my reply that the host country agreement is not about nuclear weapons and does not regulate nuclear issues. Nothing changes in Sweden's approach to nuclear weapons with the host country agreement. My view is that Stig Henriksson is conducting a debate here that is really more about creating a picture of the host country agreement that is not true. No one can force Sweden to deploy in the country or sneak nuclear weapons into Sweden. I do not believe that this ambition exists at all. International law is clear. So deployment against the will of other states is excluded. I also believe that what exists in Holland, Germany and Belgium cannot have been put out there without the participation of each country. Sweden does not want and will not allow the deployment of nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. We are absolutely convinced that our partners fully respect the Swedish will and position. I cannot see how it would be possible to impose this type of weapon system on us, nor do I believe that the will exists. Moreover, this has nothing to do with the host country agreement, but the debate is about something other than what this really is. I've told you what this is all about. It is about administrative simplification and preparing for how to deal with a crisis or a war situation by providing or receiving support. That's what this is about. It's not about nuclear weapons.
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-72	Mr President, I would like to No, the host country agreement is not about nuclear weapons. That is precisely what I am criticising. It would have been excellent to include a passage about it in the agreement because, as I said, unilateral declarations may have something less value than a hard agreement, provided, of course, that one cares about monitoring compliance. There were many interesting things about the agreement in general, about duty and tax exemption and traffic damage law and so on, but now I have asked about nuclear weapons so I stick to it. The agreement that regulates nuclear weapons is what I am critical of. It is not just an administrative technical history, it is a security policy important signal to ourselves and to the outside world. How will the outside world interpret this? What counterpreparations do they make when this uncertainty prevails? There is, of course, a huge difference when the agreement invites the government in office at the time. Peter Hultqvist will not always be Minister of Defence – a fact I regret in some respects, but this is how it is in the world. The government then sitting may invite NATO to establish base areas. It is unclear whether the base areas are as large as a camp with Gunnebo fence around or whether we are talking about the hinterland of Norrland. There was the last winter exercise last year – oddly enough in June – and it is about a third of Sweden's surface area. In these base areas, the commander-in-chief is in charge, but not Sweden's, but NATO's. There is, of course, a difference in species and not a small difference in degrees. The host country agreement sets out very clearly how this should be in line with NATO doctrine and principles. Section 3.3 of the Agreement states that this Memorandum of Understanding is intended to comply with NATO doctrine and principles. What does NATO's doctrine and principles on this issue say? Well, it says that nuclear weapons are a key component of NATO's combined deterrence and defence capabilities. As long as nuclear weapons exist, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance. This was established in Chicago in 2012. That is the reality. That's why I'd like to ask my questions with a drunkenness. How should we point out the discrepancy between the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the fact that the US has placed nuclear weapons in five European countries, namely Turkey, Italy, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands? Who's next? What guarantees does Sweden have – and I mean guarantees? If I were to buy a used car from the Secretary of Defense, I would not – with all due respect – be content with oral promises. I would like a written guarantee of any measures to be taken. As I said, should we work for a ban law like in Finland? The legislation would then be clear and clear. The law the Minister referred to barely a year ago is not up to date, is it?
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-81	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the base areas covered by the host country agreement, it is in this context a matter of basement areas established during the post-invitation exercise. It is a completely different matter to establish permanent bases, and that is not what this is all about. Let's not give a picture of something that's not at stake. If we then want to establish permanent bases, introduce nuclear weapons and establish nuclear weapons in Sweden, we need a political will and a different kind of government. I cannot see that such a relationship exists today. It is not something that is fundamentally determined by whether or not we have a host country agreement. The host country agreement is about managing existing and upcoming exercise activities as well as preparing for a possible crisis situation. Don't tell me that there are NATO doctrines that overfly Swedish sovereignty in this case! There is nothing in this agreement that transcends Sweden's control and the right to govern this. Nothing happens on Swedish territory without a decision and an invitation. There is therefore not a single military boot, uniform, AK4 or other weapons system in Swedish territory with less than Sweden having control over it. Don't spread a picture that's not true! The same situation applies to Finland, and they already have this host country agreement. Stig Henriksson asked how the outside world should interpret this. But how do we interpret the outside world? After all, we must also make an interpretation of the world around us and think about what is best and most correct for us. We have then chosen a strategy to upgrade military capabilities and deepen cooperation, especially with Finland, but also with the countries around the Baltic Sea and with England. The transatlantic link to the US is also important. That is what a 70% majority has said here in Parliament. It has also concerned NATO's partnership and the host country agreement, on which we are about to decide next week. That is the strategy we have chosen, in which the combination of measures aims to contribute to the best possible stability in the region. We cannot begin to think about whether they will be angry in Moscow because we may have a host country agreement, but we must think about what is wise for Sweden. Then we will do what Finland has already done. I can't see it's been a problem for them. I appeal to Stig Henriksson to stick to the correct content. With regard to the control of ships and aircraft, I would like to say the following: the principle of international sovereignty means that, as a general rule, we do not control other countries' state vessels or state aircraft. In return, they don't control ours either. A State that is visiting another country must follow the rules of that country. If there is reason to assume that this respect is lacking, the possibility of renewed visits must be vigorously considered. Our bi- and multilateral relations must be based on trust. That is the initial value of this type of activity and cooperation. I would like to make it clear that international law is clear that the deployment of this type of weapon against the will of others is excluded. I assume that, as far as Europe is concerned, there have been no activities that have violated international law. But we in Sweden will not allow the placement of nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. We have also committed ourselves to this in the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-88	Mr President, I would like to There were once again very interesting contributions on Sweden's defence policy as a whole. But I agree with what I have asked, namely nuclear weapons. There's a lot to say about that. No, we absolutely should not let Russia or any other country – including the United States – decide our security policy. We'll do it ourselves. But we don't live in a vacuum. It is clear that our actions, decisions and orientations affect the behaviour and outlook of the outside world. It is now called with a modern mantra: Safety we build together. I think I know that phrase for decades; it's just that it's completely changed its meaning. Now it means: security we build with NATO. It used to mean that security is built together in the sense that if the other side is also convinced that we have peaceful intentions and are not part of a military alliance, etc., and will not be a base for patriotic missiles, or by all means nuclear weapons, that security will be able to enable disarmament. Today, what has been said means something quite different. There's a lot more to say. It refers to the fact that there must be an invitation. Of course, from the government that happens to be in power. I do not think it is a secret that in this House alone there are rather offensive politicians who may be in the next line of defence. They may then not hesitate to start sending troops across the Baltic Sea for the first time since the Great Power era, and so they have quite wide views. We will invite the others – yes, but they can also take the initiative. The government that happens to be in power can say yes to the invitation. Then there are also the realities of power politics. If we have prepared everything for the bases of foreign powers, ports, airfields, etc., it is more difficult to say no. I think it is against the NPT, and perhaps against international law, to deploy their own nuclear weapons in other countries.
i-ced46fb5a57ca080-92	Mr President, I would like to I assume that we do not have any violations of international law in Europe as to how different weapons have been deployed. For the Swedish part, this is not relevant. Stig Henriksson talks about guarantees for other governments. This regulates exercise activities and crisis management. It does not have the views and dimensions that Stig Henriksson is trying to give a picture of here. If we are to be sure that the unemployment fund will not be reduced, that health insurance will not be destroyed, that labour law will not deteriorate, that neo-liberal policies will not be pursued and that security policies will not fundamentally change, we must ensure that people vote in such a way as to have governments representing values capable of dealing with all these issues with the necessary balance. No matter what decision we make here, they can be changed if one finds in a democracy that there is someone else who will lead the government, so that kind of guarantees into eternity are therefore difficult to leave. On the other hand, we are building this agreement on the experience of existing exercise activities and the assessment of future exercise activities to facilitate them administratively. That's what this is about. It is not about regulating anything with nuclear weapons. The relationship with nuclear weapons is the same before the host country agreement as after the host country agreement. The Non-Proliferation Treaty is something that this government takes very seriously and that we are working on. It's like the clue in this, and we've signed it internationally. Then how future governments deal with that commitment, I do not know. I assume, however, that the commitments we have made for a long time will be followed. I would like to thank you for this debate, and I am sure we will see each other again from this speaker's seat to the week.
