i-ed106f1e476efc1d-3	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked me what measures I will take to ensure that the Migration Agency's debt to the municipalities is paid in the near future and how I intend to act to bring about a sustainable and long-term solution for the municipalities. The task of the Finnish Immigration Service is to reimburse the municipalities for their costs after an assessment of an application. Each application is examined to ensure that incorrect payments are not made. As a direct consequence of the large number of asylum seekers in 2015, the Finnish Immigration Service has received nearly four times as many applications for compensation as in the corresponding period of 2015. Even September this year, the agency has paid out just over SEK 12 billion in compensation. This compares with the SEK 6.9 billion paid out throughout 2015. Despite extensive measures by the Finnish Immigration Service to streamline payments, the Authority still has a large balance of applications from municipalities and county councils. The Finnish Immigration Service's assessment is that you should be down in normal processing time at the beginning of next year. The Government considers the situation that has arisen problematic, not least for municipalities that in many cases have to wait a long time for the Migration Agency's assessment of the application. The Government is therefore keen that the Migration Agency, in accordance with its mandate in the regulation letter for 2016, continues its efforts to increase the pace of payments to the municipalities, and I closely follow the agency's work on this. As regards the issue of bringing about a sustainable and long-term solution for municipalities, I believe that the new compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors and young people, with its planned entry into force on 1 July 2017, is an important component. The intention is that the measures taken in the new compensation system, in addition to simplified administration, will also mean that municipalities will be reimbursed more quickly for their costs. Finally, I would also like to mention that the government has set up an investigation whose mission is to review the reception and residence of asylum seekers and new arrivals. The commission of the investigation also includes reviewing the state compensation to municipalities and county councils. The assignment shall be reported no later than 31 October 2017.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-10	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his answer, although it may not have answered my questions properly. The state now owes municipalities up to SEK 20 billion in unpaid compensation for the reception of refugees. This is twice as much as the EUR 10 billion that the municipalities receive in increased state subsidies in accordance with the Migration Agreement with the Alliance last autumn. I checked with some of the municipalities in my constituency. The City of Borås currently has a claim on the Migration Agency amounting to approximately 143 million. For Mark's municipality it is about 60 million, and for a small municipality like Ulricehamn it is about 33 million. I can assure the Minister of Justice that this is not small money for the municipalities. I can also tell you that it is rather tricky for a municipality to plan its liquidity when it has such large unpaid claims. The patience of the municipalities begins to fail. The municipalities are in practice banks for the state, which in this way does not have to borrow money in any other way. In the past, we have had a political discussion about the problem that large companies sometimes use small businesses as banks by lagging behind with invoices. The fact that the state's own authorities are now doing almost the same in practice to small municipalities is unacceptable. The government must assume its responsibilities and ensure that the municipalities receive the money they are entitled to – not least now that the municipalities are legally obliged to accept new arrivals. The least you can ask is for all compensations the municipality is entitled to be paid out in a reasonable time. The fact that the rules change at the end of next year can certainly be good, but it is a little comfort to the municipalities today. The same applies to the fact that the Migration Agency believes that it will be possible to balance payments at the beginning of next year; that does not help at present. It is nine months until the half-year shift when the new rules come into force, and my question was how the Minister intends to ensure that the municipalities are paid for their debts in the near future – just as we actually assume that debts to the state and our authorities are paid on time. What do the Minister for Migration think I should say to the local politicians at home? Whatever their political colour, they are upset that a government authority is failing to fulfil its obligations. When will Borås, Mark and Ulricehamn get their money?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-16	Mr President, I would like to The interpellation answer answered Jan Ericson's question. He asked the question when you will be down in normal processing times again, and that is exactly what I have answered. At the beginning of next year, we will be down to normal processing times again. Of course, it is not satisfactory that the length of the proceedings has been so long this year. This has been done against the background of the great challenge we had when there were so many asylum seekers in 2015. On the one hand, the Migration Agency has had to handle tens of thousands of asylum applications, as has been done this year, and on the other hand it has had to handle all these applications. That's not 20 billion the state is dragging you with. The balance right now is 9.6 billion. It is certainly too high, and the balance must be reduced. But this is not about 20 billion, as the interpellier claims. Then what have we done? Well, we've doubled the staff working with the processing, and the Migration Agency is now working for high pressure just to graze the queues. The fact today is, once again, that at the beginning of next year we will be down to normal processing times, that is, three to four months. The question then arises whether we can not just pay out the money straight up and down, without examining or controlling. However, between 5 and 10 per cent of applications received by the Finnish Immigration Service are rejected, and this is done in the light of the fact that some of these requests are not reasonable in various ways. It may be that you love money for costs you have not really had in connection with the reception of refugees. Some municipalities may simply want more money, which will replace even things that have no direct connection with the reception of refugees themselves. Of the total cost, 5 – 10 per cent is quite a lot of money. Is it that the balance is 9.6 billion means 5– 10% between half a billion and 1 billion. We do have good public finances now, but they are not so good that we can, so to speak, make incorrect payments or payments where we do not examine the application. In fact, we need to have a check on what kind of costs we are reimbursing; there needs to be a review. I agree that the local government sector should not be a bank. That's why we are now working very hard to reduce processing times, but the state can't be an ATM where you just enter a card and get money out completely regardless of what costs you want to cover. There must simply be an examination of what kind of costs you have, even if the money goes to the local government sector. It should of course go much faster than it does now, but since we have increased the number of people working on this we will, as I said, be down to normal processing times again at the beginning of next year.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-24	Mr President, I would like to It is certainly excellent if the balance has been reduced. It was up to 20 billion when this was analysed by several credible media, including Today's Society, and it is positive that it has perhaps been halved to this day. But it still does not help the municipalities that are sitting with very large claims. These are often small municipalities in rural areas, which have taken on a rather large responsibility and which do not have a large balance-sheet total in their municipal budgets. I think it's a little comfort for the municipalities to hear that they might get their money at the beginning of next year. It's still a while there, and you've been lagging behind with this money for quite some time. The Minister for Justice says in his reply that he and the government consider the situation problematic. The Minister now also reiterates that this is a problem and that it is worrying. For a minister, however, I do not think it is enough to say that we are concerned, but we must try to do something concrete about the problem. I understand very well that the Migration Agency has a strained situation. I agree with the Minister for Migration that money cannot only be paid out unconditionally in any case – our parties agree that we should have control of the state's finances and hold on to the forces. That's great, because 5-10% errors in this mean significant amounts. I shall offer the Minister a concrete and simple proposal for a solution to this situation. The Finnish Immigration Service could very easily make an a conto payment in accordance with local authorities' requirements and reserve that amounts may be recovered if one subsequently discovers something in the supporting documents that shows that amounts have been wrongly paid. The money would first be paid out and then examined. If necessary, money would be recovered or counted off in connection with the next payment. In this way, municipalities could get their money on time, with a certain reservation. After all, it is a matter of municipalities, so if money had to be recovered, it would of course be all right. In fact, it does not have to be more difficult to deal with this situation. I therefore ask the Minister quite clearly whether he would consider that proposal.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-31	Mr President, I would like to Of course, everything can be considered, but I see considerable concern with this proposal. This would mean risking a very large duplication of work – first you pay out money, and afterwards you will have to examine and have a discussion with the municipalities about what these costs have actually been spent on. At worst, money can also be recovered. I would like to say that at the next stage it puts the local government sector in even greater uncertainty than if it were to be controlled from the outset. I see, as I said, considerable concern about this. I think it is better that we make sure that we devote as much resources as we can to handle these applications in a good way from the start. We are doing this now – as I said, we have doubled the number of administrators. Balances are declining this year. The 20 billion that Jan Ericson is talking about in his interpellation is not true; it is 9.6 billion. We also see how the balance decreases gradually. We'll be down to normal processing times already in a couple of months – it's not that far until the end of the year. At the beginning of next year, we will again be down to 3 – 4 months of processing time. Jan Ericson reasoned on how the government in this way withdraws money that in the past, overall, has gone to the local government sector. The starting point is true – we are strengthening the local government sector strongly. There are 10 billion, as we call welfare billions, going out. Already in autumn 2015, we made a one-off payment to the local government sector of nearly 8 billion. We raised the standard for children seeking asylum by 50% on 1 January. The local government sector has received quite a lot of money to cope with this situation. The threat to the local government sector now – in terms of cost – is not migration, it is the Moderates. In your draft budget, you are deducting the net for the local government sector by SEK 3 billion from next year, 2017. We have a backlog on the payments. But if you were to decide, this would not have been a temporary situation for the municipalities. Instead, it would have been a permanent reduction of resources to the local government sector, just when the local government sector needs this money most.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-36	Mr President, I would like to I can still see that, if you add 10 billion and, at the same time, lag behind by 9.6 billion, this does not mean a very large addition to liquidity, if you are to compare those figures. I share the view of the Minister for Migration that these levels of compensation in themselves are probably quite reasonable. It feels like that when you talk to the municipalities. On the other hand, I think that the rules on how these sums are calculated, for example, should be reviewed. The fact that there are 5-10 per cent errors in the documents from the municipalities to the state suggests that it is quite complicated to make these calculations about what the state should stand for and what the municipalities should stand for. There is certainly reason to review the procedures, so that you do not have to have processing times of 3 to 4 months in order for the municipalities to be able to get this money out. I still believe that a conto payment could be made very well. You pay out the money with a print on a computer, so it doesn't mean much extra work. You have to do an ex-post review and then a final settlement. A conto payments are used in many other contexts in society, both in the private and public sectors. It's not that complicated. It also does not mean any additional work in the review itself, and if you are going to recover money you can very well deduct it from the next a conto payment. This cannot be a problem in today's IT society, if only the will exists. Morgan Johansson is completely wrong about the budget. As far as the Moderates' budget exercise is concerned, it is very clear that we are adding more money to the local government sector over the next three years than the government is doing. It's no less money – it's more money! Morgan Johansson is allowed to read before, because there he is simply wrong.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-40	Mr President, I would like to No, actually, I'm not wrong. I've read your budget. It is true that you spend more money on one account, but then you take the money back to a lot of other accounts. When you count net, your policy means 2.8 billion less to the local government sector than the government's proposal. Jan Ericson compares apples and pears when he says that we add 10 billion and are behind with 9.6 billion. Then he forgets that we have already spent EUR 12 billion this year on the refugee costs themselves, in addition to the welfare billions with which we have already strengthened the local government sector. However, we are lagging behind in terms of these payments, and there you are working on as much as you can to ensure that they are made. As I said, it is therefore – in order to be able to do this – that we have doubled the number of administrators at the Migration Agency. We will be down to normal processing times at the beginning of next year. I do not share the view that it would be easy to pay out first and then possibly recover money. I believe that this would lead to a rather large amount of extra work and duplication of work. Nor do I think it would be less complicated for the municipalities. There will be a new compensation system from the middle of next year, in which we will deal with the issue of unaccompanied minors. That payment system is much simpler than it has been in the past. We have a number of lagging concerns following last year's major refugee crisis, but we will clear them up on a point-by-point basis. I will meet with SKL next week to discuss these issues as well as other common issues.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-46	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs when the Riksdag can expect a proposal from the Government in connection with the investigation into export control of war material. The division of responsibilities within the government is now such that it is up to me to answer the question. The Committee of Armaments Export Review (KEX) was called in October 2012 with the main mandate to propose strengthening of the export control of armaments vis-à-vis non-democratic states. In December 2014, the Committee submitted an interim report proposing amendments to sanctions in the event of breaches of the acquis and in June 2015 a final report, including proposals for tightening up vis-à-vis non-democratic states and further measures to improve oversight, transparency and transparency in the field of armaments. Six parties jointly supported the Committee's final report. Let me stress here how important it is that the Committee has reached broad parliamentary agreement on its proposals. It is important to create long-term conditions for the Swedish defence industry, as well as clear and stable rules for the countries and companies that trade with Sweden. It is also crucial to ensure the supply of material to the Swedish defence. Since the end of the report, a very broad consultation round has been carried out. More than 100 authorities, companies and organisations have been given the opportunity to express their views. Some 75 bodies made use of this possibility until November 2015. Extensive work is now under way within the Government Office to translate the Committee's proposals and referrals into a parliamentary proposal. The Government's intention is to present a proposal for a new armaments legislation in spring 2017.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-49	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your reply, Minister, and a late congratulations on the fact that this area too will now be dealt with by the Minister for Justice and Migration. It is not a simple ministerial portfolio to manage if you are to judge by history. I have therefore asked when a proposal comes after the so-called KEX investigation. Of course, it is no wonder that we feel that the government's position is delayed. Arms exports are a bit of the circle's square watch or, if you like, how to eat the biscuit and still keep it. Exporting armaments is already, in principle, forbidden today. Yet it is considered that we must do so, and we do so. There are specific obstacles to exporting to, for example, belligerent countries, and yet we do. There are obstacles to exporting to countries that grossly and extensively violate human rights, and yet we do. We are not going to export to dictatorships, and yet we are. In any case, a bill is announced by spring 2017, and I suppose it is not very meaningful to try to get the Minister to make statements about what it will contain here. Instead, let us take the opportunity to have a more free conversation on this difficult issue, just between us. After all, so many more are not in the Chamber. I thought we could take the time when your boss is on a trip abroad. The Prime Minister goes this weekend to Saudi Arabia of all places. As a travel company, he has, as an event, the chairman of Sweden's largest arms manufacturer Saab, Marcus Wallenberg. I don't know if they might make it there already this Friday – one of the Fridays when Raif Badawi is to be whipped publicly. He's finally getting 50 of the 1,000 lashes he's been sentenced to – for blogging! One might think that Saudi Arabia meets all the conditions that should prevent arms exports. Although the Prime Minister does not want to call Saudi a dictatorship, most others probably do. My thought is: What does the Minister think, is Saudi Arabia a dictatorship? The gross and widespread violation of human rights, such as freedom of expression, when you sentence a blogger to 1 000 lashes – which in practice is a death sentence if it is carried out – should be no doubt. Does the Minister think that Saudi Arabia is violating human rights? The fact that Saudi Arabia is a belligerent country can testify to relatives of many of the victims in Yemen, most recently the other week when a funeral follow-up was bombed with 150 deaths added to the already 6,800 counted victims, excluding the humanitarian disaster triggered by the war. So far, however, the Yemeni victims have not burdened the Minister's second role as responsible for migration. However, it is an example of how we are involved in creating the disasters that we then face with great difficulty. But what does the Minister think, is Saudi Arabia involved in an armed conflict? We're selling armaments to Saudi Arabia. We have, among other things, sold Erieye, an airborne military command radar system described in the military trade press as a cornerstone of Saudi Arabia's warfare in the region. To borrow for a moment the Prime Minister's vocabulary, do you feel okay?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-58	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson began by congratulating me on having been able to deal with this issue, as he said is not a simple question. On the other hand, who has said that politics should be simple? At the Ministry of Justice, we already have issues relating to migration and terrorism, so we have a certain habit of dealing with issues that are a little more complicated and can sometimes lead one into some ethical dilemmas, which, of course, is also to a large extent. Stig Henriksson has actually received an answer to his question in the interpellation about when a bill will come, that we will submit it to the Riksdag during the spring. The debate could end there, but I am happy to discuss these issues. The starting point is that Sweden has one of the world's most stringent regulations for export control of defence equipment, and I think we should be proud of that. It is necessary for us to meet our objectives and our international commitments. It is, of course, questionable, as sometimes happens, why we should have an opportunity to export at all. I see, above all, defence and security policy arguments in favour of it. Sweden is an unaligned country, and that is how it should remain. Against this background, it is, of course, a great asset that we have our own defence equipment production, so that we do not become overly dependent on other countries and alliances for material supply to the defence. In this way, the Swedish defence industry contributes to the Swedish Armed Forces' capabilities and ultimately to Sweden's security. But for such a defence industry to be viable, there is also a need for export opportunities. What we are discussing today is the regulatory framework for these exports and how we can change it. One question you might ask yourself is, of course, whether exports of defence equipment are morally justifiable at all. It depends entirely on where it goes and how it is used, what the regulatory framework looks like and how it is applied. We in Sweden have a defence precisely to defend ourselves. That's what we're going to use our armed forces for. We have no intention of attacking other countries. There are plenty of countries in the world that have exactly the same attitude as us and that therefore want to be able to buy Swedish defence equipment precisely in order to defend themselves in the event of an attack from outside. I basically have no moral problem with that. This starting point is also the basis for the current regulation. Is there anything else we need to do with the regulations? The parliamentary inquiry wanted to see a tightening of the regulatory framework for exports to non-democrats by introducing a so-called democracy criterion. I think there are strong arguments for doing so, and we are now working on such a proposal. Here in Parliament, all four bourgeois parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party are behind the KEX report, so I see before me that we can create a broad parliamentary majority for such reform. We will start the parliamentary process of anchoring this autumn. I look forward to being able to work with the opposition in these parts in order to get new legislation in place. The regulatory framework will therefore be reformed, and I look forward to the introduction of a democracy criterion in the new regulatory framework.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-68	Mr President, I would like to At least I agree with the Minister on one thing, that this is not simple. To either sell to everyone or not sell at all is very easy in theory but not in reality, because there are defence and security policy interests to consider. I note that the Minister does not want to go into my supplementary questions, which are like a patent mouse test on whether we can sell armaments to Saudi Arabia. Since current legislation is said to be one of the most restrictive regulations in the world, one can think about how restrictive it is and how restrictive it will be. Saudi Arabia is very interesting. It's a dictatorship. Human rights are being violated, not least as regards women. They are involved in armed combat and are equipping more than even Russia, which is considered to be the great threat in the world. It's the motherland of all terrorists, I'd say. I think it was 11 out of 18 terrorists involved in the Nine eleven, who just came from Saudi Arabia. Yet the country is America's best friend, the West's best friend and now Sweden's friend. The Swedish Prime Minister, together with Sweden's largest arms exporter, goes to Saudi Arabia, which is a particularly prioritised country to develop trade with according to Minister of Economic Affairs Damberg. In addition to Saudi Arabia, we find countries such as China, Kazakhstan, Iran, Egypt, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. If it were thought, by chance, that trade, including arms exports, would be part of feminist foreign policy, it is a bit difficult to see Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Iran as its components. My idea is: is trade, including arms exports, part of feminist foreign policy? To the defence and security policy arguments. Despite all the obstacles – with some exceptions, arms exports are in principle prohibited – they often win. We export time and again to belligerent countries involved in acts of war, we export to dictatorships and we export to countries that violate human rights. This is embarrassing, although I realise that it is a complex issue. As long as we can sell to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and many other countries, we cannot say that we have a restrictive policy. We may have the most restrictive regulations in the world, but that says more about the other countries' regulations. My thoughts remain. Let us use Saudi Arabia as a lacquer mouse test for what it looks like today: is Saudi Arabia violating human rights, which is an obstacle to arms exports? Is Saudi Arabia involved in an armed conflict, which is an obstacle to arms exports? Is it okay to have exported Erieye, which is said to be a cornerstone of Saudi Arabia's warfare in the region and which costs thousands of people their lives and contributes to a huge humanitarian disaster? Is Saudi Arabia a dictatorship?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-76	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson speculates on what the Prime Minister's trip to Saudi Arabia will mean. There are once and for all these cases. If exports to any country are involved, it is the Inspection of Strategic Products that deals with it, and the Authority is applying the regulatory framework we have today. It won't come to the government unless the authority takes it to the government. If so, we will decide on it. It cannot have happened to Stig Henriksson that we have terminated the cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia that previously existed. It was cancelled last year, which led to a big discussion. What we are talking about now is what the regulatory framework should be in the future. I cannot and must not go into individual business as long as the matter is on the authority. It is when the authority takes the matter to the government that the government gets a responsibility for it. However, we have a responsibility to discuss what the future regulatory framework should look like. Here, the Left Party has sidelined the settlement in the KEX investigation, and I regret that. In fact, I regard the deal made by the four bourgeois parties together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party as a step forward on the very question that Stig Henriksson points out: how are we to tighten the regulatory framework for exports to countries that are not democracies and to countries that have major problems with human rights violations? That is the meaning of the proposal which is on the table with the government and which we are now working on. Here the Left Party has left itself out, and I do not really understand why. But maybe Stig Henriksson can answer that. It would have been much better if the Left Party had been involved in the discussion about what the rules should look like instead of just standing side by side. Perhaps the Left Party really wants to see a development in which all arms exports are abolished. I do not share this view, because there are countries which, like Sweden, need military equipment to defend themselves. I have no moral misgivings about exporting arms to these countries. We will present a proposal for spring, and preparation is ongoing. I see that we are going to introduce a democracy criterion into the new legislation, which is a major reform. At the same time, it is complex law, and it must work in reality. I see a broad foundation in Parliament, and I think that the KEX investigation provides a good basis for the reform.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-84	Mr President, I would like to The reason why the Left Party is outside the majority of the KEX investigation is that we believe that the investigation is not sufficient – just as the current legislation is clearly not enough, because we sell to countries that demonstrably violate human rights, are dictatorships and are involved in war operations. There are security and defence policy aspects. It must not be forgotten, however, that an important component was that we needed to have our own defence industry in order to bring down the costs of supplies in our own defence, and then we must export. But reality has changed quite drastically. Take, for example, the Gripen plane. Over half of the vital components come from the United States. How much of our own defence industry do we have? When most defence industries are foreign-owned, how much Swedish defence industries do we have? A little cynical can be said that we mainly have a composition of certain weapons systems in Sweden. That's pretty much where we are. Well, it is good that the cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia has been terminated. We accidentally sold Erieye to Saudi Arabia when they ended up in an armed conflict. But it did not stop there, because, in the midst of burning warfare, exports of basically the same combat management system to the United Arab Emirates, which is also involved in the war operations killing people in Yemen, were approved. Even Mr Sipri calls this approval controversial, which is a strong word on its part. That's no exception. We're selling Gripen to Thailand. We are selling to the trouble spots of Pakistan and to the constantly belligerent United States. 85% of the value of our arms exports goes to belligerent countries. What are we gonna do about it?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-90	Mr President, I would like to The whole question of exports to countries that are not democracies was exactly what the investigation looked at. I understand that Stig Henriksson is dissatisfied with the current regulatory framework and its application, but why is he not involved in making proposals for improvements, austerity and tightening up of it? It is in that direction that we are going. I think that is because the Left Party is not against the regulations in themselves, but against the export of defence equipment at all. It is a kind of pacifist attitude, which I do not share. Just as we need war material in order to defend ourselves, other countries need it in order to defend themselves. I have no moral misgivings that we have a defence industry to assist with that. The best thing would have been if the Left Party had been involved in the reform of the acquis. But here, as I said, they have been left out. I think that is because we do not want exports at all. The government continues with its preparation and, as I said, presents a bill in spring. It will include a democracy criterion and a tightening up of the possibilities of exporting arms and other armaments in some respects. I look forward to a broad anchoring of the new legislative framework in Parliament.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-95	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Fölster has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation how many jobs he expects to grow support will create. She has also asked him why the proposal is limited to individual traders rather than to single-member companies, despite the fact that the private economic risk in an individual business is significantly higher. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the questions. Grow support means that it will be cheaper for individual traders without employees to hire a person. This is expected to lead to increased labour demand among these companies. The proposal is therefore deemed to have a positive impact on employment during the period of the reduction. The proposal is aimed at individual traders in view of the fact that individual traders currently employ less and on average have a lower earned income than other entrepreneurs. Targeting the proposal to people with an average lower income means improving the distribution profile of the proposal. The limitation to individual traders also means that the reduction will be directed at smaller companies, as on average the turnover of individual traders without employees is lower than that of other entrepreneurs without employees. In the case of private economic risk taking, the choice of form of activity may be assumed to be influenced by several factors. Individual traders who choose to employ a first person are assumed to have taken into account the consequences of this in several aspects. In this respect, the proposal reduces the costs associated with initial employment and hence the economic risk-taking.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-99	Mr President, I would like to The government has consistently pursued anti-job policies. Increased taxes on effort in favour of the expansion of grants are found in every budget. When I read that the government is now going to reduce employers' contributions for small companies, I was therefore initially positively surprised, partly because small companies are some of Sweden's most important job creators, partly because it is finally a recognition of what the Alliance has been running for many years, namely that reduced costs and employers' contributions for employment lead to more people in work. It is to be welcomed that, despite much criticism of this logic for years, the government is now finally changing hands. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that this particular proposal, which is the government's only commitment to entrepreneurs, is so constructed that it is completely wrong. The so-called ‘growth aid' is limited to only the small companies that are carried out in the form of an individual firm. Individual companies have nothing to do with the size of the company – there are one-man companies that can be as small to their size. The only real difference between an individual firm and, for example, a single-member company is that the company's risk is entirely private-sector. If something goes wrong in the company, the entrepreneur in an individual firm with his entire personal finances is at stake. There is therefore a risk of falling into a large debt trap if something goes wrong in the company, and that is the big difference between an individual firm and other forms of company. All experts therefore agree that it is inappropriate to employ people in this form of company when it is associated with major risks. If you look at the referrals that the government has received for the reform, you can see that both the Rule Council and the Swedish National Audit Office say that the government has a lack of impact assessment. Both the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Almi strongly question that the government has chosen to limit it to this particular form of company. The organisation Entrepreneurs, which is the largest organisation for SMEs, says that it is directly inappropriate with tax incentives to attract individual traders in this form of company to hire and thus significantly increase their private financial risk-taking. So it seems that the government is either deliberately trying to deceive people who do not really understand what it means to employ in an individual firm into a large private economic risk, perhaps a potential debt trap, or is also counting on this particular reform to have no employment effects. Either the growth aid is some kind of sham measure or placard policy that the government expects will not cost the state budget anything or it is something that can pose a great potential risk to individual entrepreneurs, who may be sacrificed along the way. Either way, I do not think this is a serious business policy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance and get a straight answer: does the Minister for Finance think it is a good idea to employ as an individual entrepreneur in this form of company? Is it something that the government, despite the criticisms of the consultative bodies, encourages? If the government now agrees to the premise that reducing employers' contributions leads to more people in employment, why is the reform limited to the company form only for individual traders?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-108	Mr President, I would like to According to the government's own data, about 1 million people will be excluded by 2020. This is one of Sweden's biggest challenges, if we look forward to the coming years. We also face other challenges from a nutritional perspective. The whole issue of Ericsson, notice and transformation is a wake-up call in terms of globalisation and competitiveness. In some sense, we encounter an economic vulnerability in Sweden in a completely different way than before. The answer to many of these challenges is about entrepreneurship, jobs and entrepreneurship. Here we can see that we have a government that is taking Sweden in the wrong direction. To consistently raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and make it less profitable to work and to start and run a business, I think, is the wrong recipe to meet those kinds of challenges. I can understand if the Minister for Finance will say that she does not agree with me, but if she does not trust me, she could listen to what some of Sweden's leading entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs say. Studies have been carried out to show that a majority of the country's entrepreneurs believe that the government is taking Sweden in the wrong direction when it comes to jobs and entrepreneurship. Another example of this, Mr President, came on Monday when a number of leading entrepreneurs, who have served as a reference group for the so-called Entrepreneurship investigation, wrote an article on today's industry's debate page and said that government policy is a manslaughter team for entrepreneurs. They have worked within the framework of the important study that looked at how we can consistently and strategically strengthen entrepreneurship in Sweden. They are in favour of many of the proposals put forward in the investigation but, at the same time, express a great deal of concern about the overall policy pursued by the government. Not many proposals come from the government. We note that many of the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs must be cancelled because the government does not come up with concrete job and company proposals. The growing support was such a suggestion, and just like Sofia Fölster I was also positive when it came. Spontaneously it felt like something positive, but when you go in and look at how it is defined and linked to individual traders, at least two questions arise. The first question on which I am very concerned and on which Sofia Fölster was also concerned concerns the risk taking for the individual entrepreneur. We know that many entrepreneurs talk about uncertainty and risk when you're going to take the step and go from being your own to hiring another person. Risk is about different things. Economics is a part, but there are other things that are part of daring to take the step of hiring. There is a fundamental difference between the company forms – whether you run a limited company or an individual firm. The individual firm represents a completely different financial responsibility for the company's activities. With its growth support, the government is pushing for employment to take place in the very form of a high financial risk, and not everyone is even aware of the exact economic consequences. I wonder: why do the Minister for Finance and the Government think that they want to pursue it against individual traders, with the economic risk-taking that entails, and not against the form of public limited liability companies, for example? The second question, Mr President, is linked to the fact that the government generally raises taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship while, at the same time, dubbing with a solution that is growing support: why?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-118	Mr President, I would like to I've been asked if the government thinks it's a good idea for companies to hire. The answer to the question is: Yes, we think it is good if there are more jobs. We believe that the proposal is a step in the right direction. The Moderates also thought so on March 21, when Ulf Kristersson said that it is a step in the right direction but that it is too small a step. So the Moderates also thought it was a good proposal. This was also the view of the Entrepreneurs, and their CEO, Günther Günther, said in March that he thinks this is an important and long-awaited signal from the government. Then the Moderates and the Entrepreneurs have changed their minds. I can also point out that in the past, when there was a reduction for solo entrepreneurs, the Moderates were not against the fact that it was also for self-employed workers. The question is therefore rather why the Moderates have changed their minds in the last six months. It is possible that they now feel that entrepreneurs do not really understand, as Sofia Fölster has now said in this House, and that they now have lower confidence in self-employed people's ability to understand. But it is possible that there is a difference between the government and the Moderates. We in the government believe that self-employed people understand and that there may be many different reasons for running companies as a single firm. The next question was why this is limited to self-employed workers. One important reason for this is, of course, that targeting self-employed workers is a lower cost. It also has increased accuracy. The loss of deadweight is therefore reduced. But, of course, it is important that it means a lower cost, and we are a government that takes responsibility for public finances. In practice, we have wiped out the deficit we inherited from the moderate-led government. The government is now also receiving clear international praise for its responsible economic policy. Sofia Fölster says that this is the only initiative the government makes on entrepreneurs. It says something about the moderate world picture – the only thing that can involve an initiative is a tax reduction. But I can tell you that the government is taking a number of measures to improve the business environment, not least the investments we make in skills development. We know that many companies have problems finding the right skills to hire. They also often argue that the housing shortage is a major problem, and now the government has made the biggest housing policy effort in 20 years. It is important to inform the Moderates that there are other policies than tax cuts. But it is obvious that according to Sofia Fölster's world view, only tax cuts apply. Then I hear that the Moderates are critical of the tax increases that the government has made over the last two years. It is a little surprising, since the Moderates are now embracing these tax increases. You also think this is a good thing now. That was a clear message in the Moderate Budget Movement. Party colleagues to Lars Hjälmered and Sofia Fölster have many times stood in Parliament's chambers criticising, for example, the downscaling of the job tax deduction, which would pull away the carpet for people who want to work, who would not give any tax revenue and would lead to people not training or wanting to take senior positions. Changes in the youth worker's contribution would risk thousands of young people becoming unemployed, and changes in the ROT deduction would lead to the emergence of new black jobs. But now the Moderates have completely changed their minds and embrace the downscaling of the job tax deduction, the increased breakpoint, changes in youth unemployment contributions, the ROT deduction and the petrol tax. It's a welcome turn. But then perhaps they should be clear and argue in the Chamber for why they think this is good rather than sounding like they think it is bad.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-126	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance asks why we have changed direction and talks about the attitude of the Entrepreneurs, the Moderates and others on this proposal when it began to be discussed. As I mentioned in my introduction, I believe that many of us were positively surprised when the government came forward with the proposal to reduce employers' contributions, which the Social Democrats have been against and strongly argued against in this House and in many other contexts for many years. Of course, you are initially pleasantly surprised and welcome such a proposal. But when it then turns out how the proposal should be constructed and defined, you get worried. It is clear that the government has defined this proposal in order to achieve as little cost as possible and to ensure that it is charged to the state budget as little as possible. Since entrepreneurs understand that it's so hugely risky to put their entire private economy – house and home – in pledge if something goes wrong in the company, it's assumed that no one will want to hire in this form of business. It may be assumed that this will not burden the state budget very much. Then it is a fairly smooth reform which, moreover, may also get some headlines. And then you can work for a seemingly nutritional policy. However, there are companies that are start-ups of people who test this and who are not familiar with all the rules and exactly how all taxes are constructed. They may not be fully aware of what this means. With a tax incentive, they risk being lured into a debt trap that can affect a whole family and a whole life. This is precisely what the Entrepreneurs are now claiming, and that is what many other organisations representing entrepreneurs are now claiming. Those who have been fighting and arguing for a reduction in employers' contributions for so long now say that they would rather not have this proposal at all than that it should be targeted in this very way. Then I think the government should be honest with what the purpose of this proposal is. What employment effect is it expected to have? The Minister for Finance says in his reply to me that it is not possible to count on the exact employment effect that this will have but that it will probably be positive. I would like to remind the Minister of Finance of the electoral promise that Stefan Löfven made before the elections, when he said that every minister on each proposal must account for exactly how many jobs it will create. Then I wonder: is this electoral promise no longer valid, or is it just this reform that it does not apply? If this electoral promise still applies, I and many more would like answers on how many jobs this particular proposal is supposed to create, so that we can understand what is meant by the proposal. I hope the Minister for Finance will be able to respond to that.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-134	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance says that we were initially positive but that we have now changed our mind a little. Yes, part of it is that way. We were therefore pleasantly surprised when the Minister for Finance and her colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, presented an idea that the government would make it easier for entrepreneurs to actually employ. It is basically a positive initiative. When one looks at the consequences and overall policy, and also listens to many interest groups and others, it is a little more smikk in the cup that comes along and quite a lot of issues that are raised, not least in terms of economic risk-taking. For many who run companies in the form of an individual firm, it raises some questions that the government is pushing this but at the same time increasing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship in general to a very large extent. If you look at the general picture and what leading entrepreneurs in Sweden testify to is needed to improve the entrepreneurial climate, there is a broad reform programme. It's about the housing. There, the Moderates have a housing reform programme in their budget. It is a question of the need for improvements in schools, such as school programming. We have concrete reform proposals. It is a question of calling for option taxation and better conditions for participation. Unlike the government, there is a concrete proposal. An issue that often comes up, not least in the IT sector and in other areas where skills are called for, is about better functioning labour migration. There we have a concrete proposal for a so-called 30-day guarantee so that companies can quickly and easily receive an answer to their application for a residence and work permit. We do not see any government initiatives there. Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Minister of Finance will not be impressed by me and say that she agrees with me. But I can again note that there are leading entrepreneurs who have built large companies in Sweden and who last Monday on Dagens Industri's debate page wrote that the government's policy is a manslaughter team for entrepreneurs. This is not an individual tax issue, but an overall policy, also broadly linked to options, housing and much more.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-139	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Fölster is asking about the analysis of the employment impact of this proposal. We are carrying out impact assessments of all the proposals in the Government Office and looking at employment effects. Of course, we have also done so with this proposal and have concluded that it is deemed to have a positive employment effect. However, these calculations are so uncertain that our assessment is that it is not meaningful to account for it down to the exact number of jobs. Not least during the time of the moderate-led government, we saw how the calculations were forced to change significantly. When this was evaluated, it turned out that it did not reach the desired effects at all. That is why we are now making an overall assessment of the effects. Sofia Fölster claims that it was not known that it was such a delimitation already this spring. However, when we presented the proposal, it was extremely clear that it would apply to self-employed people, people who have their own business. I must therefore understand that Ulf Kristersson had not understood the proposal when he spoke. Sofia Fölster may wish to confirm that the Moderates and Ulf Kristersson had not understood the proposal when he spoke about it in March. Maybe Sofia Fölster wouldn't have done it either. It would be good to clarify that. I would also like to point out that it is a proposal that has existed in the past and is fully in line with the policy of the previous Social Democratic Government. At that time they had similar support, even if it was broader. And then neither the Moderates nor the Entrepreneurs nor anyone else criticized the inclusion of self-employed people. Lars Helmered talks about entrepreneurs. When I meet entrepreneurs, they focus on three things. One is the lack of housing. It is difficult to get people to move to the regions where there is a major housing shortage. The second is that it is difficult to find people with the right skills. The third is option taxation. The government is working on all those issues. With regard to the housing shortage, we have launched the largest housing policy initiative in 20 years. More is being built now than it has been in a long time. When it comes to the lack of competence, we have been working on it from day one since we came into government. And as far as option taxation is concerned, there has been an investigation that has now made proposals. The government is now preparing those proposals. Lars Helmered says again that the government raises taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. I would like to point out once again that these proposals are now being embraced by the Moderates. Can't Lars Hjälmered or Sofia Fölster tell us why you think it's good to scale down the job tax deduction? It's a proposal that the Moderates are embracing now. I'd love to hear why you think it's good politics.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-146	Mr President, I would like to Since it took office, the government has consistently pursued anti-employment and anti-business policies. Taxes on jobs and effort have been increased in favour of the extension of grants. At last, however, there will be recognition from the government that reducing the tax on employment actually leads to more companies being able to afford to hire. Unfortunately, however, the proposal is being misplaced. Unfortunately, the proposal is directed in such a way that it has a zero employment effect. No entrepreneur who runs his business as an individual firm will want to take the private financial risk of hiring someone. It is also at risk, as the Entrepreneurs and others claim, to lure inexperienced entrepreneurs into what can become a potential life-long debt trap – not for the company but for the private individual. This is extremely unfortunate. If the recognition of reducing the cost of employment actually leads to more jobs – as I wish – and not just a symbolic measure, the government could, for example, extend the proposal to more than just the form of the company's individual trader. I hope that the government will come back with answers to the questions to which I have still not been answered, for example: What are the effects expected of this? How many people are expected to be employed? And how many entrepreneurs are expected to be sacrificed along the way when they and their own family end up in a debt trap? I hope that the government will change its mind on the matter, but also that the government will start to take responsibility for Sweden and start conducting a responsible business policy.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-150	Mr President, I would like to I note that I do not receive any answers to my questions. I'll repeat them anyway, so I might be able to get some answers later. Had the Moderates not understood the proposal when they expressed a positive opinion on it? Now Sofia Fölster says again that the government has increased the tax on effort. I would like to remind Sofia Fölster that she should be enthusiastic about the proposal. I asked her or Lars Helmered to explain why they think it's good to scale down the job tax deduction. I look forward to hearing the Moderates arguing for this proposal in the future, because many hours in the speaker's chair have been spent arguing against it. I would like to hear why they think this is a good thing. The Moderates have, above all, turned in all tax matters. The government has made proposals in this House, and the Moderates have spent many hours arguing against them. But now that the budget motion came, we saw that we are now embracing in principle all of those proposals. The only question is when will you change your mind on this issue as well?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-154	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me when I intend to provide information on the timing of a change in the taxation of the PV tax, and how I intend to ensure that the processing is not as flawed as the introduction of the PV tax. The background to this question is the change in an earlier exemption for energy tax on electrical power that entered into force on 1 July 2016. This change meant that, in most cases, electricity generation from solar cells, among others, was exempted from energy tax. The question thus relates to the fact that all electricity from solar cells is not exempt. For the vast majority of those producing electricity from PV installations, exemption is subject to tax. This exception applies, of course, to all private individuals who have installed solar panels that are not connected to the electricity grid, but also to over 90% of all PV installations that are eligible for electricity certificates. However, the government believes that solar electricity needs to be further promoted. The 2016 budget bill therefore announced that the possibilities for further stimulation of solar power generation would continue to be explored. The conditions for taxing solar energy in a way that is compatible with the EU regulatory framework are therefore urgently prepared within the Government Office. This preparation includes, among other things, analysing the consequences of a change and possible timing of the change.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-158	Mr President, I would like to The government introduced the so-called PV tax on 1 July 2016. As a justification for the tax, the Minister for Energy and Finance said that the European Commission called for a change in the level of taxation on renewable energy. However, their explanation was later denied by the European Commission, which publicly stated that there is no requirement for energy taxation. Indeed, there is the possibility for Member States to introduce subsidies or exemptions from the taxation of renewable energy. The European Commission has previously examined and approved it for other countries. The lack of evidence and a proper impact assessment for the PV tax are problematic and create uncertainty as to how quality-assured the government's decisions are. The fact that the government increases taxation on things it claims to want to protect is a recurring, worrying and easily confusing pattern. Despite the fact that the European Commission has publicly denied that it is demanding a tax on solar electricity, Magdalena Andersson still maintains this argument in her reply. She says, "The conditions for taxing solar energy in a way that is compatible with the EU regulatory framework are therefore urgently prepared within the Government Office. ..................................................... In order not to distort competition within the EU, there are a number of rules on how to get and not benefit businesses. It is a solid regulatory framework, Mr President. It is big enough for Magdalena Andersson not to have to make up his own restrictions that are not required. Mr President, I would like to I think Magdalena Andersson understood how confusing the introduction of the solar tax would be perceived by those who, before the election, believed in the government's words on renewable energy. That is why it was certainly convenient to blame the EU instead of taking its own responsibility. When it became clear that the EU does not require solar tax, I met many people who expected the government to make a poodle, admit its mistake and immediately propose that the solar tax should be abolished. But that was not the case. If the government wants to retain the solar tax – it is of course the government's right to have it – it is time to openly acknowledge the motive behind it and take responsibility. Don't get out of the way by blaming the EU! Now I give Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson another opportunity to clarify this to anyone who feels cheated.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-166	Mr President, I would like to It is not only this government that has wondered whether this is truly compatible with EU rules. At the time when the Moderates were in the Government Office, the investigation that was the basis for the change made last year was set up. It had been assessed that the rules in force at the time were not necessarily compatible with the State aid rules. What the Commission has stated is to what extent, in accordance with the Energy Taxation Directive, a solar tax is needed. It is clear that the Energy Taxation Directive does not provide for the need to have a full taxation on solar electricity. On the other hand, the assessment of the investigation that was carried out – and I also believe by the Moderates when they were in government – is that the rules that existed in the past were not, of course, compatible with the state aid rules. My question to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby is whether the Moderates now perceive the previous rules as clearly compatible with state aid rules. That is not something on which the Commission has spoken. When we made this change, the investigation that the Moderates had established was the basis for our assessment. It had shown that this was doubtful in relation to the state aid rules. In addition, several professional organisations have made it clear that they intended to report this to the EU precisely because it was a breach of state aid rules. At the time we felt that a change needed to be made, but at the same time we were also clear that we wanted to look at what opportunities there were to further benefit solar electricity. That's why we set up an investigation to look at it. At the Ministry of Finance, we are now working intensively to see what further reduction can be made for solar electricity while, of course, also sticking to the state aid rules. We are working on this urgently, and I hope I can come back with a proposal. We want as little tax as possible on solar electricity, but of course we have to stay within the state aid rules. Otherwise, individual producers risk being liable for repayment. They would have risked that even without our change. I do not believe that the Moderates want this to happen either.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-172	Mr President, I would like to That wasn't very clear. It is not only the fault of the European Commission that the government is making a wrong decision, but now it is also that of the Moderates and the Alliance Government. Is it not time that the Red Green Government actually stood up for its decisions? It would be nice if it did. Fortunately, I can interpret from the answer that the ambition is to abolish the solar tax. But then the question of what is really meant by this hastily. Many out there are also wondering this. When does the Minister of Finance intend to provide information on a date for amending the PV tax rules? I also wonder how it is ensured that the preparation is not as defective as the introduction of the PV tax. It's a little too easy to blame others. You shouldn't do that. That's not how you run a country. I spoke to a colleague yesterday who said it reminds me of something in the defense. In certain situations, you say, shots are coming, clearly backwards. The difference here is that the government says It shoots hello wildly, and we see the results now. First, the government ignores the industry's criticism and imposes the penalty tax on solar cells, but then does not dare to really stand for the decision. In today's answer, Magdalena Andersson says that the government will investigate how it can stimulate something that it is currently countering with taxes. Confusional? Yeah. Responsible? No. Trust-inciting? Absolutely not. This isn't okay. You can't run a country like this.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-176	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Moderates seem to have changed their attitude on this issue since they left the Government Office. When they were in the Government Office and were in charge, they also wanted to ensure that the regulatory framework complied with EU state aid rules. Do the Moderates no longer think that Sweden should adhere to the state aid rules? Do the Moderates mean that it is to take responsibility for the country if a government does not adhere to the state aid rules and therefore individual companies run the risk of being liable for the tax reductions they have had? Is this the new position of the Moderates?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-177	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the EU acquis should be followed. As I pointed out in a previous speech, there are a lot of rules that we should follow, and they exist to ensure equal competition within the Community. The very rule that the government chose to introduce is not needed. I definitely think that we should follow the rules that exist. However, when the Commission goes out – after a rule has been introduced – and publicly destroys the evidence on which the government claims to have made the decision, the government must at least be able to admit that this time it was wrong. However, it does not. Mr President, I would like to We hear in Magdalena Andersson's reply that she still places responsibility on the EU for the introduction of this very rule. It's not working. It is time for Magdalena Andersson and the Red Green Government to now put their foot down and say what they actually want. Let me know if you want to keep the PV tax! After all, it is a tax on something that you said before the elections that you accepted. But give the industry long-term prospects! Right now it and all households are living in a vacuum and do not really know what will apply. I'd like to hear what the government's thinking. Will you continue to place responsibility on others when you receive criticism for the decisions you make? Look ahead and do not blame those who are not responsible!
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-181	Mr President, I would like to Since Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby obviously did not listen to my first answer, I will have to take it again. The Commission has made a clear statement on the basis of the Energy Taxation Directive, not on the basis of state aid rules. The Swedish Government, Swedish regulations and legislation must adhere to both the Energy Taxation Directive and State aid rules. To say that I blame the European Union for our duty to abide by the state aid rules is one of the most rogue things I have heard in this pulpit. The Swedish Government is doing everything it can to ensure that we have as little tax as possible on solar electricity within the EU rules we have to deal with. The Energy Taxation Directive does not, of course, constitute a restriction on this issue. However, State aid rules do. If we do not stick to them, individual companies run the risk of being liable for the tax. It can cost them very much. The fact that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby seems to want us to pursue a policy that poses a risk of individual companies being liable for repayment makes me very surprised. This is one of the most rogue I have heard in the Parliament's pulpit, and I am very surprised to hear this from a moderate.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-184	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me, firstly, whether I am listening to the export companies whose competitiveness is impaired by the kilometre tax or whether I conclude that the kilometre tax will not affect the competitiveness of the companies and, secondly, whether I have carried out an impact assessment on the effects of the kilometre tax on the export companies and whether there is an impact assessment when Parliament and other interested parties are able to take part in it. An investigation is working on producing a proposal for road wear tax and will submit its report by 9 December 2016. The structure of the tax is part of the study's mission to analyse, as well as the impact of the proposed tax on different sectors and regions. Once the report has been submitted, it will be prepared in the usual order.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-186	Mr President, I would like to Prior to the 2014 elections, the two parties currently in government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, announced that they would introduce what they call a road wear charge. The more everyday expression used is the mileage tax. In practice, the Kilometer tax is a tax at a distance in an elongated and export-dependent country. The government has announced that a kilometre tax will be introduced in Sweden. It is a tax that puts jobs at risk for professional drivers and logistics companies. AB Volvo has announced that the introduction of the kilometre tax would increase their costs by SEK 400-500 million. This only applies to the transports to and from Volvo. Increased transport costs mean less competitiveness for our export companies. The forestry industry is one example. Deterioration of competitiveness in relation to our competitor countries puts jobs at risk in both industry and other sectors. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has said that all reforms to be implemented will create more jobs, as my colleague Sofia Fölster also mentioned in a speech. I am, of course, as interested as the Prime Minister in whether the Minister for Finance believes that the kilometre tax creates jobs in Sweden. Magdalena Andersson says, Mr President, in her very brief answer that the question is being investigated. She also says that once the report has been submitted, it will be prepared in the usual order. It would be nice and reassuring if it were actually this way. Unfortunately, however, this is a government in which the ministers do not really know what colleagues in other departments say and promise – or perhaps threaten with – in this case. The Minister for the Environment, Karolina Skog, said on 24 September in South Sweden: I don't know how Magdalena Andersson interprets Karolina Skog's statement, but Sydsvenskan's headline on the newspaper article was: This is how our export-dependent companies interpret this. They see their costs increase, competitiveness decline and jobs threatened. Therefore, I would now like to know: how does Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson Karolina Skogs interpret the statement? Have you already made up your mind before the investigation is complete?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-192	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is the case that you take a final decision on proposals when you have received the investigation and listened to the consultation bodies. Then they come with the proposals to Parliament. However, we have not set up the investigation because we would not intend to try to introduce a road-wear tax. There was something in the Social Democrats' election manifesto and certainly also in the Green Party's election manifesto. We've been clear about that. But, of course, we should first see what the investigation comes up with for proposals, then listen to the consultation bodies and then take a final position, just as we do on all other issues.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-195	Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson's answer leaves a number of questions about how well the ministers of the so-called cooperation government communicate with each other. If it is as Magdalena Andersson says, that the investigation will be completed before deciding whether to introduce a very business and work-damaging criminal tax at a distance, the least we can demand from the government is that it shows some responsibility. But is what Karolina Skog says in Sydsvenskan, that the decision has already been made before the investigation has presented its position – I would like to hear a rement of this from Magdalena Andersson – it is disastrous. Unfortunately, however, this would be in line with other decisions taken by the government, such as the PV tax and the introduction and then the removal of the tax on environmental fuel last year. These decisions were based on inadequate evidence and raise doubts about the competence of the Red-Green Government. Now the government has an opportunity to show that it stands up for jobs and entrepreneurship this time. Therefore, I very much hope that it is as Magdalena Andersson says, that you will first look at the investigation before you make decisions. But it is very worrying when we hear Magdalena Andersson say in the speaker's chair that you have this as an election promise. Will the election promise outweigh the investigation? Will not Stefan Lövven's words that all your decisions will lead to more jobs apply then? Have you already decided what to do? Will you introduce a road wear tax if the investigation comes back with a statement that this is a proposal that will be harmful to Swedish industry, to Swedish jobs, to our export industry, to Swedish households and ultimately to Swedish welfare? What weighs most – election promises or reality, Magdalena Andersson?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-198	Mr President, I would like to As Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby should be aware of, the Government takes a decision on a proposal which is then submitted to the Riksdag. If the Riksdag makes decisions in accordance with the bill, the Government will then issue the Act. That's what the decision-making system looks like.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-199	Mr President, I would like to I understand Magdalena Andersson's very short-cut answer that she is not so interested in deepening herself further into the government's obvious cooperation problem. But of course it is good that Magdalena Andersson says that the investigation should form the basis for the decision. I really hope it's what she says. Mr President, I would like to However, as long as Karolina Skog's statements are not demented, the doubts about the government's agenda and what applies are growing. We know in here that the decisions are not made until they are clubbed here in this Parliament. But it would benefit the credibility of the government, Mr President, if Magdalena Andersson got Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog to dement her statements. If it is not the case that the government has actually decided to introduce the penalty tax at a distance without knowing whether it is harmful or not for Swedish jobs, Swedish companies, Swedish households and Swedish welfare, the least the government can do is for its own credibility to dement Karolina Skog's statements and clearly tell the Swedish companies and others who are waiting for the message that the government will not make a decision that will be harmful to Swedish companies, for Swedish jobs, for Swedish welfare and for Swedish households.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-201	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby talks about how harmful this treasure is. I have often heard Moderates in this speaker's chair talk about how harmful different taxes are. A degression of the job tax credit would not create any new tax revenue but would make people not trained and not take leading positions. That was what it sounded like a few months ago here in the speaker's chair. Now the Moderates think this is a great idea. They are enthusiastic that we have a higher marginal tax. A few months ago, the Moderates thought it was terrible that we did not raise the cut-off point for government income tax. They thought that it would mean that no one was trained, that there were no jobs and that people would not exert themselves. But now the Moderates think that what we did last year is great and embraces the proposal. I have been in any number of interpellation debates where the Moderates have said that the reinstated youth unemployment contribution would result in thousands of young people not getting any jobs. Now the Moderates think the government's proposal is great. They want exactly this policy, which was so bad. Then the Moderates stood here and believed that our lowering of the subsidy in the ROT deduction would cause thousands of people to be laid off and that a lot of new black jobs would be created. It was only a few months ago that I received such an interpellation. Now the Moderates think the proposal is great, fantastic. I would love to hear the Moderates say a little: Why was it good to lower the subsidies for the ROT? Why is it good to increase the marginal tax rate for high-income earners? Why do more doctors and teachers have to pay government income tax? Why should employers pay higher employers' contributions for young people? What's so good about it? It's been completely quiet about that. Now the Moderates say that this proposal is something that would be terribly bad. I'm pretty sure of one thing. The day it's introduced, the Moderates will think it's great.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-208	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has asked me if I and the Government share Statskontoret's view that the investigation activities have not been given sufficient attention from the police leadership. She has also asked what initiatives I and the government intend to take to increase the police's ability to clear up crimes. Investigating crime is one of the political authorities' core tasks and a task that is of great importance for people's confidence in the rule of law. It is therefore important that criminal investigation activities are given high priority. This message has been conveyed by the government to the Police Authority in various contexts. The investigation activities, together with activities linked to migration, terrorist threats and the situation in particularly vulnerable residential areas, are also a national priority within the Police Authority. There is a need for a resource-based and competence-based strengthening of criminal investigation activities, which is something that Statskontoret also states. This is why the Government has proposed an addition to the Swedish Police Agency of over SEK 2 billion during the period 2017 – 2020. In our opinion, it is also important for the Police Authority itself to control the composition of its staff. It now allows for extensive recruitment of civil investigators and specialists in investigations of different types of crime. Criminal investigation activities also need to be developed in other ways, for example through more efficient forms of work. The police authority has therefore taken a large number of national decisions aimed at a more uniform and effective investigation work and increased prosecution. However, as Statskontoret points out, it is important to have a long-term perspective on development issues and introduce ambition increases gradually. The most important thing at present is to gain stability in the organisation and lay the foundations for the further development of the business. I will also closely monitor the agency's own work in this area.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-212	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. The police's findings are falling and have been doing so for years. While the police report a smaller proportion of investigated reports and a lower proportion of cleared offences, the cost per processed case has increased. In addition, many notifications are immediately written off more or less on a routine basis. This is not an acceptable development. Statskontoret questions in its interim report that came some week ago to what extent the implementation of the police reform may have affected the poor results, at least until the end of 2015. Of course, we do not know how all the problems we now see in the organization affect. All we know is that everything suggests that the results will continue to fall. Statskontoret considers that the activities of olisen, including the investigation activities, are so complex and comprehensive that a long-term perspective on development issues is a prerequisite for achieving results. Indirectly, Statskontoret writes that it has tried to change rapidly, despite previous experiences showing the benefits of allowing a change to take some time. It is also pointed out that many managers bear witness to a lack of reform. In addition, we know that many experienced police officers stop r and that we have a lack of investigators. Statskontoret believes that the continued reform efforts should be carried out with an awareness of the need to prioritise development work and to introduce ambition increases gradually. Through focus and perseverance, the conditions for achieving the goals of reorganisation are improved in the long term, they say. In this context, particular mention is made of investigative activities. Unfortunately, the Government has no idea of Statskontoret's analysis. The Minister for Home Affairs says in his reply that it is important that criminal investigation activities are given high priority and that the government has told the police authorities several times. One wonders: How? The Government then points out that the investigation activities are, together with activities linked to migration, terrorist threats and the situation in particularly vulnerable residential areas, a national priority in the Office of Police. Yes, it is. Mr President, I would like to If all this is a priority, then it is at hand that the investigation activity draws the shortest straw. Refugee threshing, unrest in 53 vulnerable areas, terrorist threats and more take time because it is often urgent matters, and the police have to make great efforts. Complicated investigative work does not have the same status and is not of the same interest. D is in favour of which the government is required to be over-clear in its governance. I miss that clarity. The Minister for the Interior stresses the need for more money and a strengthening of skills, and so it is. But I'm not so sure that Anders Ygeman's budget is enough. Because it's not supposed to be used only for investigative purposes. As usual, the Minister returns to the fact that it is the Police Authority, read the director of the police, who can and will solve all the problems. Apparently, the government has no record. For my part, I have a great deal of respect for the independence of the authorities. But I also believe that clarity is needed in both governance and follow-up from the government responsible. Nor is it reasonable to expect the reorganisation to solve the problems we see with crime resolution, even if there are changes in it that can bring improvements. My question is: do the Minister for the Interior and the Government have any ideas on how to strengthen their ability to investigate and clear up crimes?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-222	Mr President, I would like to I can start by simply answering Beatrice Ask's question. The answer to that question is yes. We are also doing a lot and have done a lot to tighten it up. A result of this we see in Gothenburg. We have gone from a situation where almost none of the serious crimes and murders committed in organised crime were solved to a situation where we have a number of convictions. We have two people who have been sentenced to 18 years in prison for murder, and those judges have also gained legal force. We have eight people who were sentenced in the district court to life imprisonment and to 14 years for murder and preparation for murder, etc. We have a positive trend break in these very important areas. I share Statskontoret's view and what appears in the debate to be Beatrice Ask's view that we need to have a clearer focus. But we can't change everything at the same time. It has been a problem in the reorganisation that apart from all the things that changed with the reorganisation and that the government and parliament agreed on, ambitious policemen have also chosen to change and improve other things at the same time. It has probably been unfortunate and has led to a worse result than would otherwise have been the case. That is why we will return on the issue of target and performance management. Mr President, I would like to It may also be worth pointing out that the government's letter of regulation for the police was quite exactly 50 percent shorter than what Beatrice Ask wrote to the police. It may also be worth pointing out that once we had done so, Beatrice Ask and her comrades proposed no fewer priorities for police officers. She wanted to add 17 new priorities to the police and was not prepared to remove one thing in that work.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-226	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very good that we have received convictions in Gothenburg, among others. Of course the police get some done, and of course we get results in many places. One might wonder how the present government has helped to resolve those very matters. I think that's a touch. We don't have to discuss what actually works. The reports we have about the state of the investigation show that it sinks like a rock. We are getting a very bad result for the tax money we put here. Here we discuss Statskontoret's report. It analyses the question: Has the reorganisation strengthened or contributed to the poor results of investigations or are there other reasons? Statskontoret says that it is doubtful whether the reorganisation is concerned because we have seen problems for a long time. However, it is also not believed that improvements can be achieved quickly enough by simply expecting the organisation to sit down. Statskontoret requires focused, determined and long-term work, and I think that is wise. It also announces, which I think is a good thing, that the next report should look specifically at the investigative activities. That is something we are asking for. I believe that it is necessary to be clear from the government that investigative activities are central. One of the police's core tasks – there are one or two more – is to investigate and clear up crimes. We'll see it and analyze where it goes bad and where it doesn't. The Home Secretary and I have discussed this before. I believe that there are many examples of carelessness with things that we already know are working. Here the government and the Government can lie as a strap on the ground and demand action and action or answers to the question of why it does not work. In the previous debate, I mentioned the example of not managing the DNA register in the way we would like to ensure that the exchange between Sweden and other countries makes it possible to see more quickly and precisely which ones may be suspected in various cases. It is also about ensuring that you have the right staff. This is probably where the reorganisation is, because we've got a lot of disgruntled cops leaving their job. We have many experienced police officers who choose to retire because there is no way to go down in working hours or because they think that no one wants them anyway. This is a concern, for in the case of investigations of serious crimes, long experience is often an important factor: you feel that things are not right, you see connections and you have an ability. It is these people who are the best at training new investigators. You can see quite early if someone has the ability to work as a preliminary investigator. Police officers tell me that the problem is that many of these people have now disappeared into other areas. It's empty. If you have no investigators, and when you have a lack of experience, you have a problem. Here, of course, in all the talks that I assume you have with Dan Eliasson, the government can point out that additional efforts are needed. We from the Moderates have put money into our draft budget, among other things, because one can imagine wage increases for groups that one sees as a total shortage or one that one wants to encourage. It is also a question of using national skills. It's important. I don't think you should be wide-ranging about writing shorter regulatory letters. It's always possible to discuss. On the other hand, the word is misused here in the Riksdag. It sounds like we're prioritising everything. There are many things that are important, but not everything can be a priority.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-236	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd start by recounting what Beatrice Ask himself has said: Police salaries are not put in parliament. I share that view, and that is also a pretty good comment on Moderate exercise. Wages are paid by the social partners. It is a good order, I think, and so has Beatrice Ask at least until now. If I somehow gave the impression that it was the government that had solved the heavy murders in Gothenburg, I am very sorry. Glory be to those who are honored! It is the Gothenburg police, the police in West Sweden and their highly competent investigators who have solved the crimes and managed to hold those responsible to account. I'm glad to hear that. If we are to make progress, we must put serious criminals behind bars. Therefore, it is a gratifying trend break we see in Gothenburg. It is also gratifying that so much information has come from within these gangs and that they crack like trolls in the sun. I share the view that we should have a clearer focus. In the near future, the government will come back with how we view steering and monitoring of results in the police. I think we need to have a system in place where we can compare security developments over time so that the opposition can hold both the government and the police to account. We will also be able to compare different parts of the country and different ways of working to ensure that the absolute best practices are used everywhere in the country. Bad methods and bad working methods should be patterned out. We must question our work as legislators: can we do more to streamline and facilitate police activity? Beatrice Ask and I both want more suspects to be topsed. We may sometimes think that the police tops few, but if there are laws and rules that make it harder for the police to topsa, we must of course review them. I don't think the problem is that the police don't know it's important to investigate crime. I think every cop understands that. On the other hand, I think it is a problem that politicians want to give priority to everything in police operations. It was in this sense that I raised the police's letter of regulation, and it was in this sentence that I mentioned that Beatrice Ask and her alliance friends want to add a huge amount of priorities to the police without removing one. I think that's a bad way forward. I would like, in part, to oppose the image that has taken place in the political debate that there are very many who are leaving the police. Two thirds of those who have left the police this year have done so to seek a new job at the Security Service or to retire. Those who now go to the Security Service go to a new authority, while those who did previously changed jobs within the same authority. It is hardly proof that staff turnover is increasing. However, there is a small worrying trend in which some who have been in the police force for seven to ten years leave the profession. There we must be vigilant, and there the police must show themselves as an attractive and responsive employer, which may not have always been the case at all times in the past.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-243	Mr President, I would like to No, there's no mass exodus from the police. But what is the problem when it comes to investigative activities – which we are talking about right here – is when key people, experienced and knowledgeable investigators, choose to stop too early. We need them. That was my point, and I mean that you can use the wage instrument. We are not going to put salaries in Parliament; I fully agree with that. However, since wage costs are among the biggest in the police budget, increased budgetary space is required for this purpose if the police management is to be able to use them in their negotiations. Otherwise, they have no room to raise any salary. I point out that the wage instrument may be a way of retaining staff, but there are of course others as well. I'm not the one who should make up what you can do to improve your business, but I don't think we have complicated rules for topsing. It's about prioritising police operations. Working with emergency response, messy and vulnerable areas and other things is often more prioritised and has a higher status than sitting and thinking about complex issues in a major investigation. The police must be able to do both, and then we need resource reinforcements but also method development. I have great hopes for the coordination of crime that is to be built up in the new organisation. Then you can see connections over the country and learn in a way that you have not done before. There's one thing that might be good, but we're a long way from there yet. I call for clarification from the government that the police have to deal with this. We need to do the homework on basic knowledge and basic functions in the investigation work, we need to catch problems that make us not have the right staff in place and we need to ensure that we have a turn in the boring development we see in terms of the result.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-248	Mr President, I would like to Both the government and the Moderates have significant additional resources to the police in their respective budgets. It is more than SEK 2 billion. Within this framework, it is clear that it is possible to employ more police and civilian workers as well as to improve working conditions and working conditions for the police. It is a matter for the social partners to negotiate on this. Beatrice Ask is asking for clarity about the investigative activities. I can support in principle all the points mentioned by Beatrice Ask. It is embarrassing that the results of the investigation have fallen, that they have fallen for a long time and also, unfortunately, that Statskontoret indicates that they will continue to fall. We are likely to have falling findings next year as well. On the other hand, I believe that we will be able to reverse the trend with regard to certain types of crime, but that in some parts of the country we will also be able to increase efficiency, that is to say, increase the proportion of cases that come to prosecutors, and increase the rate of flow of investigations. We will therefore be able to see positive developments in some areas, but further negative developments in other areas. Then I fully share – and I apologise if it seemed that I do not – Beatrice Ask's view that the elderly and skilled experienced investigators are extremely important to move forward. This shows not least the successful investigations in Gothenburg that I showed – incredibly insistent, methodical and expensive work. I believe that only the Spring Weather Square investigation corresponds in the order of 600 ordinary criminal investigations, but so we also received eight convictions in the District Court. We'll see if those judges stand up in the Court of Appeal.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-252	Mr President, I would like to This debate is in danger of becoming quite similar to the previous one. No, Beatrice says! Let's see. Beatrice Ask has asked me what conclusions I and the government draw from Statskontoret's report on the police's work locally and what measures are planned to ensure that the police reform's objectives for an activity close to the citizens are realised. The transformation of the police into an authority is one of the biggest changes in Swedish state administration in modern times. As Beatrice Ask has noted, Statskontoret's report shows that several important measures have already been taken, which provides the conditions for reaching the objectives of the reform in the long term. Police activities should be brought closer to the citizens where they are most needed. I can see that the Police Department has taken important steps towards that goal. Most municipalities now have a municipal police force, the use of civic promises is increasing and the appointment of district police officers is ongoing. In order to reach even further, there needs to be more police officers where they are needed at their best, especially in the vulnerable areas. Statskontoret also notes that there is still work to be done in the next few years. A few weeks ago, the Head of the National Police presented a series of measures to be taken to meet several of the problems that Statskontoret highlights. Among other things, more police employees will be recruited. In order to enable the Swedish Police Authority to recruit these persons, the Government has proposed in the 2017 budget proposal that the agency be added more than SEK 2 billion during the period 2017 – 2020. However, it is the responsibility of the Political Authority to assess what measures need to be taken to carry out the tasks assigned to it and to decide how resources are to be allocated. The government also proposes to relieve the police and transfer data to other authorities. I will continue to follow closely the work to ensure that the intentions of the reform are fulfilled. I also look forward to Statskontoret's upcoming reports before we can make a final assessment of the transformation and its results.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-259	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am not at all afraid that this is about the same thing as the previous debate. Police operations are large, and Statskontoret has analysed different parts of the business. The overall idea of police reform is to remove the obstacles we had in the past in order to achieve higher quality, increased cost-effectiveness, increased flexibility and better performance. The police authority shall be developed in such a way as to strengthen the resolution of crime and the intervention activities, while improving local presence and accessibility. That's what we're gonna focus on now. The hope is that the new police authority will have a better and deeper local adaptation and better local work. We're not there, and that's the police business I want to discuss. In summary, Statskontoret considers that the emphasis in the implementation work is so far on central control and strengthening the national structure, that is, more or less everything we did not want. Centralisation and overall activity have been pursued, but not at all, at local level. Statskontoret notes that there is a need for increased focus on employeeship and anchoring and a priority for local police work. Anders Ygeman, like us in the Riksdag, has been courted by many disgruntled representatives of municipalities. Parliament has also asked the government to come back with an account of what measures are being taken to increase the number of local police officers because we fear that there are problems. My simple question is what Anders Ygeman intends to do when it is obvious that the police are not even close to the police reform's goal of better local presence and accessibility. In the answer, the Government says that police activities have come closer to the citizens. It's directly wrong. Most municipalities now have a municipal police officer," says Anders Ygeman. In reality, a local police officer, i.e. one person, can have five six municipalities to be responsible for. How much local support and how much interaction with municipal administrations, associations, businesses and citizens do they think this will be? The police's internal auditors also note that there is a lack of job descriptions of what a local police officer like this can do. It's serious. You don't know what to do. One is alone and has five six municipalities to deal with. That's not a local anchor! It is a thought, but we are far from a solution to the problem. Civil vows, yes, they exist. But not everywhere, and the quality can be discussed," says Statskontoret. There is a risk that they may be perceived as paper products, and that is not so good. Local police areas have been given a considerably larger mandate compared to the former local police areas, and that is why. They should be able to be self-sufficient, be able to lead and coordinate the work and take their own initiatives and so on. When it comes to local police areas, the Government says that there is an ongoing employment of district police officers. Perhaps so, but something that Statskontoret states is that it has come quite far on paper and implemented the goal of half of the resources in a region being local, but in reality we get many reports of reduced operational resources. There have been fewer people working locally in practice. The question is what the government intends to do about it. How long will that be accepted? The Home Secretary says we're going to recruit more staff. Yes, that is also true and it is absolutely necessary. Both our parties have the budget to do more, and we have the most. But the truth is, the chief of police has announced that he must employ more than the budget allows.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-270	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that we share the same objective of reorganisation. We have all taken decisions on the reorganisation together. It was planned during Beatrice Ask's time as Minister of Justice with strong support from the Social Democrats and all other parties in the Riksdag. I would also like to say that there is a risk in such a debate that the opposition highlights all the shortcomings in the reorganisation, which are of course there and as Statskontoret has pointed out, and that the government points to all the flashes of light and the positive things that are also there and that Statskontoret also points to. It will easily be a little strange debate, for the truth is of course that there are both some positive things that have happened and some things that have not at all become as we have thought. That's what it looks like. One of the most important things to have with us is that, at the same time as we did the biggest reform of Swedish government since the 1950s, we had extreme pressures on Swedish police in the form of increased terrorist threats, in the form of the biggest refugee crisis in modern Swedish history and in the form of the first decided border control in over 20 years. Of course, if you do these things at the same time, you won't get to the full. You have to put that in the picture. It is true that Statskontoret indicates that it has increased national impact. It was also a goal of reorganisation. It is also some that have been very important for the police's ability to cope with these strong external pressures: border control, terrorist threats and the refugee crisis. It would have been considerably more difficult to face these pressures in an organization with 21 county authorities. It is true that we want to increase the local presence. We want to increase it where it is needed most. We want to start in the socially vulnerable areas. There are also positive examples. In Botkyrka there is a threefold increase in the number of police officers in external service. At Hisingen in Gothenburg there have been hundreds more police officers and 200 fewer managers. This is basically a positive development. That is what both Beatrice Ask and I wanted to see with the new reform. In Vivalla, a pilot project is being carried out to get 14 national authorities to cooperate locally to take out crime and criminals in a highly vulnerable area. But I still want to problematize it a little bit. In the debate that we had just a few minutes ago, it was important for the government to prioritise investigative activities and ensure that people are sitting and investigating – that is it. Let's talk about the external service. No matter how big a budget we have for the police, we will always have to strike a balance between several important areas. I am convinced that we will see more police officers in the most socially vulnerable areas. There we must have a higher police presence to give the people who live there security. We have seen in recent years that social security has increased but not for those living in socially vulnerable areas. There we see that insecurity has increased, that social trust has decreased and that confidence in the security-building work of the police has decreased. Then there is only one way: to ensure that there are more police officers in the local community on a permanent basis.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-278	Mr President, I would like to May I begin by commenting on the Government's point of view that there is a risk that the opposition will highlight shortcomings while government representatives talk about what is positive? That, in fact, is the point of a democracy. The task of the opposition is to point out and highlight what the rulers may not want to talk about. What I have tried to focus on in this discussion and in the former are various assessments made in the interim report on the implementation of police reform. It is quite right that we agreed on what was to be achieved. But we are also well aware that not everything will be right from the start. That is why we need a factual basis. This may concern investigative activities or the local presence and various parts. I will continue to go through parts of this report, because I think it is only as methodical as we can ensure that we have a good and modern police organisation. Acute problems, the refugee situation and other things, naturally undermine the possibility of doing things you want to do. It's affecting all the time. You knew that from the beginning. You have to try to take altitude for that. But of course I also have respect for sometimes being delayed or not being able to do so. The problem that Statskontoret points to is that it has only focused on centralisation. They have only focused on the national level and care about what happens locally. I think it's almost a joke to talk about municipal police if you appoint a person responsible for one municipality and five other municipalities. The ambition with the local police must be that the person should have active cooperation with the social services, with fritis, with companies, with politicians in each municipality and so on. Then the days won't be enough. There is no way that local anchoring can be achieved in this way. It's sad how badly this has been handled. Citizens' promises are far from being implemented or realised. Statskontoret points out that it is important to ensure that you keep quality, that you spread good examples and that you start to spend some time thinking about how to follow up on citizens' promises, which are for people to have confidence in the efforts that the police make. Given how much discussion there is about problems in different parts of Sweden, I think it is a central task. We should say yes to the analysis that is being carried out there. I also see that there have been more police officers in one direction or another. There are good examples, and it is fun to enjoy them. But the problem is that in most places it has become worse locally. There are fewer people who can work with the crimes that citizens of the Community are subjected to. That's not good. It's gotten too far to the police. It's taking too long for calls. This week alone, there have been several serious examples of the police saying: We cannot send anyone. We can't get out. We're not doing anything. The worst was probably the example in Enköping. A man knocks on a woman's window and wants to come in. He's got a bloody hand. She asks, "Where have you been?" He's telling me. She calls 911, but they say we can't make it. The next morning, the man is still sitting. She looks in the backpack – the person is sleeping well or something. There's the bloody clothes. She goes to the police station and makes them go out to an apartment. There's a person that this man probably murdered. That's what you think. These things happen all the time. That is not acceptable. I respect security checks. They show that it is generally very good. But it is indecent that the local police presence and the availability of staff able to pull out in reality are too low. We have to do something about that. Statskontoret points to this.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-286	Mr President, I would like to Of course, on the last point, we are in complete agreement. It is important that we follow up over time and see that there are the right resources in the right place. There will certainly continue to be such regrettable mistakes in the future, but that is, of course, totally unacceptable. There are some other examples in the press, where internal investigations are now being conducted to find out what actually went wrong. In the cases I have seen, it is probably not primarily a resource issue but other errors that have been made in connection with the events. Beatrice Ask feels that you treat the local police presence with your elbow and don't care about it. I can say, I don't treat that presence with my elbow. I can promise Beatrice Ask that I will ensure that I follow up on this, so that there will be more police officers in the socially vulnerable and most crime-stricken areas and that with the help of society as a whole we can reverse developments in those areas. It looks different in different parts of the country. Some parts have gone further. Some parts have not come as far. In some places you have a dedicated local police officer. Sometimes you share. It looks very different. We have very different municipalities in Sweden, from the smallest municipality, which does not even have 2 000 inhabitants, to the largest, which has over 900 000 inhabitants. Then it is also natural that the police's work is organised differently in different places. Monitoring is carried out both regionally and nationally. At Hisingen we follow developments every two weeks and see how it is. The politicians from Jämtland who courted both me and Beatrice Ask had a lot of negative to say but also a lot of positive. For example, the chief police officer in Malå and Norsjö had more to say about, a larger mandate, and had therefore been able to ensure that there are more police officers today in Malå and Norsjö than they have in many years in the external activities – an increased security for the citizens there. At the same time, there are significant problems with long distances and long emergency times. Although this reform will be able to solve many of the structural problems that the police have had, I do not think that we will be able to solve the problems of depopulation of sparsely populated areas and very large distances. If we are to solve these problems, we must adopt measures other than those contained in the reform that we have undertaken.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-293	Mr President, I would like to I understand from the Interior Minister's speech that he listened to representatives from Strömsund and many Norrland municipalities – so did I. It is true that an example was taken from Strömsund where there were six municipalities in a municipal police. Unfortunately, I should say, I have met local representatives from large towns in Central Sweden who have exactly the same problem. It also surprised the chief of police when he last visited the committee. He'd go home and see if it could really be true. If they haven't lied to me, I'm afraid that's true. This involves large municipalities, large cities, which certainly require more than one municipal police officer if you are to talk about local anchoring and coordination between different efforts to curb crime and perhaps reprimand people who have committed crimes in the past. It is true that municipalities are different. There are small municipalities, and there are large municipalities. I respect that. But often small municipalities are not completely free from crime. There is serious crime even in small towns. In addition, small municipalities often have the problem of very long distances. It'll take an incredible amount of time. I will not take the time to give examples from Härjedalen even if they are incredibly exciting, but it is problematic to assess how many municipalities a local police officer can do and if you can do a good job. For us Moderates, it is very important that people can feel safe and that the judiciary and the police are present throughout the country. I think it is important to take this on board. That is why the objective of local presence is so important and must be followed up. I also believe, Mr President, that here in Parliament, which has agreed to change the police organisation, we have a duty to carefully follow up the various parts, to test what is happening and to be prepared for decisions and initiatives if necessary.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-298	Mr President, I would like to Let us return to a special debate on the presence of the police in Sveg and the surrounding area on another occasion, perhaps when I come to committee. I agree that we must follow developments and also be prepared to take political initiatives if and when necessary. We have taken some initiatives. On the issue of rural areas and the large distances, the government decided the day before yesterday on a Council resolution on the clean-up of activities in order to enable the authority to request direct assistance from the Prison Service's transport service. This means that the police in sparsely populated areas, which can have many very long journeys, can be relieved of that activity and instead devote more of their power to crime prevention and intervention. We need to see more of this so that we use the police forces we have in the absolute best way: pure the business, perhaps removing unnecessary bureaucracy and unnecessary rules and transferring some things from the police to other authorities, where they can do better work. The Cardinalex temples are animal issues, which should be passed on to the county administrative board, and some other issues. I think we will see that, as we have announced in the budget proposal, we will soon be able to pass on these issues. We have a common responsibility to ensure that the intentions of police reform also become a reality. Of course, I have the greatest responsibility, and I intend to live up to it. I believe that the next time we meet in this House to discuss these issues, we will see that there have been considerably more police officers in the most vulnerable areas.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-302	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what action I intend to take if the investigation shows that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's auction arrangement for the 700-megahertz band does not prove to be appropriate on the basis of the balance the investigator has to make, what contacts I have had with the relevant blue-light authorities in relation to the question of frequency allocation, how I intend to ensure that the 700-megahertz band's frequency space is used in the best way, what I intend to take for measures to ensure good competition in the telecoms market, what I have taken to ensure that competition in the Swedish telecommunications market does not deteriorate as a result of the auction of the 700-megahertz band by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, and how I have ensured that consumers do not have to pay unnecessarily high telecommunications costs as a result of the planned auction of the 700-megahertz band. The state has an important role in creating good conditions for commercial expansion to continue, including through a well-functioning market and by promoting efficient frequency use as well as regional and local dialogue. The release of the 700-megahertz band for mobile communications services is likely to contribute to creating good conditions for further deployment and access to such services. On 17 December 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency for secure and accessible mobile and IP-based communication for actors in public order, safety, health and defence. The assignments were presented on 18 March 2016 and are currently being prepared at the Government Office. In the light, among other things, of the accounts of the authorities, it has been considered that additional evidence is needed to clarify the needs and how they can be met and realised. The Government Office has therefore set up an investigation into a developed and safe communication solution for public order, safety, health and defence actors, known as blue light authorities. This includes questions about frequency space in the 700-megahertz band, in other frequency bands or in other ways. The investigator has had contacts with the relevant authorities. Today, the investigator gave a first oral presentation, and the case is currently being prepared at the Government Office. Better mobile coverage and broadband access are essential in all parts of Sweden. Public order, safety, health and defence operators must also be able to communicate and exchange information effectively and safely with each other. The government's view is that the two interests should be reconciled. The role of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is to ensure that the possibilities for radio communications and other uses of radio waves are exploited effectively and to promote effective competition and is the authority that examines questions regarding the limitation of the number of permits within a frequency range. As a minister, I am not allowed to comment on how the authority should act in individual such decisions. With regard to the issue of good competitive conditions, the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority shall take into account the overall use of spectrum when making its decisions. This means that the Authority looks at all frequencies with similar characteristics when assessing the competitive situation. According to the Electronic Communications Act, the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority is responsible for the efficient use of frequencies and for promoting effective competition. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency also has extensive experience in designing auction procedures and granting permission to use radio transmitters, and I have confidence that the agency will carry out its tasks properly.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-309	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my two interpellations. There will be many issues in the same debate when we work together in this way. When it comes to frequency assignment, the issues are very technical but probably so important. It's a finite resource that I don't think so many people contemplate daily but that you use daily, through, for example, your mobile phone or when you listen to the radio or watch TV. The use of the frequency spectrum by the bluelight authorities is, of course, a very important part of this from a societal perspective and of course also a priority. It is therefore important that there is good cooperation between the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority on the one hand and the various blue-light authorities on the other. As the Government has well described in its reply, further investigation was needed to establish what interest is really crucial here. He also says in his oral reply that today there has been an oral presentation, which was a bit of a novelty. That was not clear from the written reply I received yesterday in preparation for this debate, and that is why it is very interesting. This means, in fact, that we are now getting to a slightly more acute position as to how the government chooses to act on this issue. Therefore, it is obviously of interest to the House and also to the relevant authorities to see what the oral presentation contained. Therefore, one of my supplementary questions to the Government will be whether he can explain to some extent what the oral presentation contained. I also wonder whether the fact that the issue is being prepared at the Government Office means that it is preparing to even act on the matter and, if so, in what direction. The various interests within the state's strongholds that stand against each other are illustrated when an issue that I believe falls under the State Council's review area at the Ministry of Industry is being investigated by the Ministry of Justice from the perspective of the blue light authorities. Of course, the government has every right in the world to distribute tasks among itself, but it may seem a little strange when one department starts investigating another department's processing area with a view to possibly taking steps to stop an auction in the former department's processing area. I do not know whether the Government can investigate or clarify to the House who is actually responsible for this. After all, he is the one who responds to the interpellation, but it is the Minister of Justice who has initiated the investigation. Which minister accepts the investigation when it is to be presented? Is it Minister of State, Morgan Johansson or Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman? Who will receive the investigation when it arrives? After all, it may be interesting to know. I suppose it is the Government itself that if any action is to be taken, that action must be taken because the matter is under his jurisdiction and not under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-317	Mr President, I would like to There were quite a few questions in the two interpellations. The question of frequency bands may be perceived as theoretically or technically complicated d. Frequencies are not a finite resource. They exist for a long time, and the radio frequency bands as such do not run out. But they are limited in scope, and we must use them effectively if we are to exploit the possibilities that the radio frequency bands give us. They're important. In future, it will not be possible to draw fibre to all households. At least we will not carry a cord on a daily basis, but in the future mobile communications will be important – perhaps even more important than today – especially for us in sparsely populated areas. Then the radio frequencies are central. The frequencies are also important for our authorities in the military field, the police, health and safety. It is incredibly important that they can communicate in a good, efficient and modern way. This is a complicated question. Many interests are involved. In connection with the planned auction of the 700-megahertz band, there has been a kind of conflict between PTS, MSB – Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness – and the blue light authorities. According to PTS, the requirements and needs of the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness have been taken into account, but PTS believes that there is a great lack of clarity as to what factual reasons are at the basis of MSB's requirements and what time plan the blue light authorities consider if they consider their needs in the matter. How will this be financed? There is probably a lot of money involved in what the blue light authorities intend to do. It is not good if we end up in a long period of inefficient use of radio frequencies when, on the contrary, there is a great need now. In response to Erik Ottoson's last question, I think it is natural for the Ministry of Justice to investigate their real needs in this area, but there is no doubt that it is the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency that is responsible for this area and that I am the minister responsible.
i-5axWpMN3L3dqwMCJXjiU4R	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your follow-up. Yes, this is indeed an interesting sequel. I fundamentally agree with the Government's analysis of the urgent need for the allocation of this form of frequency spectrum, the risks of inefficient use of the spectrum and what it can in itself mean. I also share the view of the Government that it risks being costly to build parallel systems. This is where I think we have made a mistake from the outset when we do not start cooperation between the blue light authorities, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and the operators in the telecommunications market in order to create, if possible, common solutions. There is something that is still interesting. I do not think this is a conflict, but it is a matter of different perspectives that exist within the Swedish Government. There also seems to be different perspectives within the Government Office. I'll try not to be conspiratorial, but it's getting more and more spectacular when the Justice Department asks for an investigation in another department's field. It can also be seen as spectacular that Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman's accompanying official is watching the Council of State in the Chamber. It is true that he was asked to leave the Chamber while the Government's response was given because he did not have his own minister in the Chamber, and then the House's rules dictate that officials are not allowed to stay in the Chamber. It will be a strange situation when it seems that there are frictions even within the Government Office about what really applies and what this will lead to. After all, the blue light authorities have been clear in their communication about what they think they need. Then both the Government and I have had some informal contacts with representatives of the authorities, who say that there are possibilities for coordination and cooperation. But the basic assumption on the part of the blue light authorities is that a parallel system is needed. Then you have to try to patch and fix in that form of collaboration afterwards, but it is still embarrassing that there is a crack in the state administration and obviously also within the Government Office. My interpellations were about much more, including competition in the market. In the past, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has chosen a variant in the procurement process to seek to ensure that at least three different actors are allocated within a frequency spectrum of 100 megahertz. It has been one of the success parts of how we allocate frequencies in Sweden. It has also ensured that there is good competition in Sweden and some of the EU's lowest prices precisely for telecommunications and wireless internet connections. It is spectacular and raises concerns that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has not chosen to continue to move forward on this path. At the latest auction, only two players are guaranteed. One operator may receive coverage requirements for the whole country. It can be distortive.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-329	Mr President, I would like to In the proposal that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency intends to implement in connection with the auction, an area of the radio frequency has been set aside precisely for the blue light authorities. It is a significant part of the space. In the recent discussion, the blue-light authorities – MSB – have not been satisfied but have wanted to have another area, which they believe is better suited to their needs. Different frequency ranges have different characteristics. Some parts of the 700-band are well suited for rural and sparsely populated areas because it has such a good surface coverage over Sweden. Among PTS's demands towards those who are to bid for the auction, there are also strong demands that part of the money that comes in should specifically go to cover those areas in rural areas and sparsely populated areas that today have poor telecommunications and poor mobile coverage. As the copper network is being decommissioned at the same time, it is important that we ensure that we have well-functioning access to the internet and to the authorities everywhere in Sweden. Now that e-health and services in this area are being developed more and more, the whole of Sweden should be able to take part in such services. That is the background to the fact that this discussion has come up. As I said in the first answer, I believe – and the government's view is – that there is room for both the interests of the bluelight authorities and the interests of rural and sparsely populated areas. Then let us remember that there is basic legislation in this area. PTS is responsible, so the discussion has come up a little late. It would have been much better and easier if MSB and other authorities had been clear in good time. PTS might then have been able to take this into account in a different way. It's possible. It's hard to know, but at least it's possible. I hope this will work out over time. We prepare the case further in the Government Office, and PTS has its task. Let's see what it lands in. In view of this, if the officials are sitting in here, I hope you can listen to the interpellation responses even without sitting in this room. I do not think you should draw too far-reaching conclusions from whether a person wants to sit in here or outside and listen to the debate.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-335	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its follow-up response. We'll release the bluelight authorities for a while. I would like to see the Government raise the issue of competition within the 700-megahertz band. As the Government describes, this is part of the frequencies we have that are attractive especially for rural coverage. With the auction's current approach, which is apparently to be launched, there is a risk that there will be extremely limited competition within the new 5G network in rural areas. In large parts of the country outside the big cities, there is a risk that there will be virtually a single player providing 5G connectivity. This is because only one operator will be subject to technical requirements and few operators will be able to act within this frequency spectrum. There is of course a risk that it will create an oligopolistic situation outside the cities and that it will in principle automatically drive up costs because, in the absence of competition, it will be possible to charge a higher price for a service when there are not as many people competing to offer the same service. It is true that the 800-megahertz band and other bands associated with it are also being discussed in order to be able to use them for similar purposes. But the 700-megahertz band is an extremely important part of this, and this must be taken into account. I understand that the Government does not want to interfere unnecessarily in the exercise of authority, but there are opportunities to make clearer demands for good competition in the telecoms market than there are today. My question is whether the Government is willing to do this.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-340	Mr President, I would like to Yes, competition in this area is, of course, also an important issue. As Erik Ottoson probably knows, there has been criticism from Tele 2 in particular of the planned auction procedure of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency – that there are too few units. The explanation is, in part, what we have just talked about: part of the band has been assigned to the blue light authorities, and this means that the remainder is a little smaller than it would otherwise have been. Perhaps it would have been more natural to have three areas. The issue of competition is important and interesting. It is important that there is no monopoly, but I think it is almost inevitable that we have an oligopolistic market in this area. One cannot expect that there is neither frequency space for nor willingness to invest in so many actors that one gets away from an oligopolistic situation, but we are probably stuck there. We do not want to end up in a monopoly situation now that we no longer have a state authority that manages telecommunications, as we used to have. We have moved on to a competitive situation, and competition should be ensured. But I have great confidence that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has this in mind and knows how the market works. The agency has extensive expertise, and I trust it.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-344	Mr President, I would like to Member of Parliament Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I have taken and intend to take to ensure that the handling of wholesale prices for data roaming within the European Union is fair and promotes good competition in the Union's internal market and does not affect Swedish consumers economically. Let me first say that Erik Ottoson and I agree that it is important for consumers to feel safe to use their mobile phone when travelling within the EU without being worried about getting a giant bill when they come home. It is important not only for the individual consumer but also for the digitisation and realisation of the European Digital Single Market. It is therefore important that the abolition of surcharges at retail level, what is popularly referred to as ‘roam like at home', be implemented in a sustainable manner that does not harm competition. That is why the government in the negotiations on the so-called TSM regulation, which forms the basis of the proposal now being negotiated, pushed through the need for further reductions in wholesale charges as well. It is thanks to the work of the government and other like-minded Member States that we are currently negotiating wholesale charges in the Council at all. It is complicated negotiations with strong interests. I and the government are pushing for the so-called tariff ceilings, i.e. the maximum charges that operators may charge to their competitors to connect their subscribers, to be as low and cost-oriented as possible. This is to allow for the sustainable abolition of roaming surcharges. If wholesale charges are too high, there is a risk that Swedish operators will not be able to cover costs for the charges they have to pay to operators in other countries when their subscribers connect abroad. This in turn could lead to higher prices in Sweden, which would be unfortunate if the countries that have made the most progress in terms of digitalisation and data use were to be curbed by excessive wholesale charges. Together with eleven other Member States, I and the Government have written a letter to the Commission in which we put forward these arguments. We will also continue to argue for and push for lower wholesale charges in the Council and in other channels so that we can have low roaming charges in the future.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-349	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an issue on which I believe that everyone in this House is very much in agreement is important. The European Digital Single Market is a strategy that I believe is one of the most successful at present, also given that it is rocking on some other issues within the European Union. That is why this is also an important example of how well it can be when you help to pull together in the right direction. As the Government explains, there are different views on how wholesale prices should be regulated, and it is clear that there are also slightly different national interests in this. I wonder, however, whether the Government, which has a great deal of experience in European cooperation, makes the assessment that it is accessible and that there is a potential in this matter so that we come in the direction that we have set out anyway, or whether he estimates that there is a risk that we will have a negative solution for Sweden to regulate wholesale prices. Is there a way forward here, or should we prepare to find other solutions to keep Swedish telesubscription costs down? If it is not possible to regulate wholesale prices in a favourable way, it will not only be passed on to those who travel a lot, but it will also be passed on to the costs of telecommunications services in general on the Swedish market, because existing regulation will make it difficult for telecom operators to charge only those who travel a lot. That is what the whole issue of roaming restriction is about. This means that there may be a transfer of costs to consumers who may not travel at all, and that will of course not be good either. So the question is whether the Government believes that there is a way forward here and whether you can row the question all the way home. I also wonder which partners in this which the government has identified in European cooperation, which other states it has a common view and hooks arm and can be of support and help. It varies a little depending on who you ask who supports the Swedish line. Does the Government consider that more and more people are joining that line, or are fewer and fewer people keeping the same line as Sweden has had so far?
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-355	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I think there is a very simple and fundamental conflict in the debate on roaming within the EU. The conflict is between those who use a lot of roaming in other countries, and therefore want low charges and low wholesale charges, and those who bring in tourists and others from other parts of Europe and therefore see this from an income perspective: if you reduce the fees, it will be less income for their businesses. So the conflict within the EU is very much about national interests. Do you belong to those who pay, or do you belong to those who take the income from this? That's where the differences really lie. This means, in practice, that there is quite a lot of a North-South conflict, where the countries of southern Europe are the ones who, if roaming and wholesale charges are reduced, receive less income, while the countries of northern Europe are the ones that receive lower costs. It's your company that benefits from this if you manage to bring about a change. If we are to find like-minded countries, it is the countries of northern Europe, such as Denmark, the Netherlands, the Baltic countries and some others, which are moving a little in the same direction as us, while Spain and Greece may be heading the other way. This is an issue in which we believe we have the opportunity to come forward, but it is actually a number of different regulations that fundamentally affect and govern the issue. For the Swedish part, we have had the Commission on our side to a large extent. After all, this is about increasing exchanges between countries and promoting travel. It should work much like home, and that is why, among other things, the concept of "Roam like at home" has come up from the President of the Commission. There are also other proposals that go a little in the same direction but are in other parts of the telecommunications area, such as the Wi-Fi proposal that would use European resources to pay Wi-Fi in central areas around the countries. We may not have driven it from the Swedish side, but there is a great deal of interest on the part of a lot of other countries to conclude that the EU should pay for the opportunity for their citizens in particular to have internet access. Even if you may not have it in your home, you can get it centrally in the village, community or city. Such a proposal also affects tourists.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-360	Mr President, I would like to The Government is, of course, right in its description of problems, and before you have too much understanding of the countries that feel that they are losing a lot of money on this, you should know that the marginal costs in the system to allow such a connection, transmission of data or telephone are basically zero. There are very small marginal costs for the operator providing such a service, but you can withdraw quite a lot of money from it. It is clear that this is a loss of income, but it is not the case that you do not get cover for the costs you have. As has been the case in the past, there may have been an unreasonable subsidy to some countries' telecommunications systems, as they have been able to draw so much money into payment for something that really does not cost so much to provide. This is a fundamental condition that I think one should have in the back of the head, and I am convinced that the Government also has. What the Government mentions about various suggestions about Wi-Fi is of course also very interesting, although I myself am not really convinced that it is one of the best and most accessible roads. The risk when doing so too much is that not only tourists but also domestic consumers choose to make use of this kind of connection instead of ordinary mobile connections. If this were to happen too much in Sweden, as is planned, among other things, by the party colleagues of the State Council in Stockholm City Hall on the other side of the water, it risks a drain of revenue that is currently widely used by telecom companies to extend coverage of mobile telephony in rural areas. This means that a project that is paid with tax money in Stockholm's inner city risks taking even more tax money in large parts of the country because telecom companies cannot use revenue from the big city to finance expansion in rural areas. Of this there are two errors that absolutely do not sum up into a right. I think we should be very careful about this form of discussion at European level, and I would perhaps like to send it to the Government that, if this is done from a European perspective, it will of course have the same negative consequences for the functioning of the telecommunications market and the expansion of telecommunications in rural areas as it does in Sweden about Stockholm City Hall funding the party. This is something that I wish the Government would take along and also reflect and perhaps even assist me in my opinion if he is in that mood.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-366	Mr President, I would like to I raised the issue of Wi-Fi and the European Commission's proposal not because I think it is the solution for the telecoms market but to show that this is an area where there are many different aspects and proposals that are in the air and under discussion. I myself am not sure that I think this overall is a good long-term solution, as I think I said. However, it is something that is being discussed, and I think we will see at least in some countries that common Wi-Fi solutions from the public side are becoming commonplace rather than using the market. How this beats we will see. But it's an interesting development we're seeing right now. From the Swedish side, we need to focus on making this a common, functioning market across Europe and not charging over-prices to tourists or others travelling within the EU. I can agree with Erik Ottoson that in many cases there are limited additional costs for roaming, but in cases where tourism is large, the demands of tourists and others who travel are quite high. They are used to having access to the network all the time, and it should be good connections. Today, many countries do not have as strong an expansion of telecommunications as we do in Sweden, for example. If, in the host countries, demands are made to extend the network especially in those areas where it is tourism but not for their own population, it is clear that this could be a political issue. It is also a question of costs for these countries, even if they have a great deal of revenue from tourism.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-370	Mr President, I would like to I think I and the Government are in agreement. In addition to the last point made by the Government, it is worth adding that, in any case, the revenue from tourism in particular far exceeds the cost of telecommunications equipment and coverage in these areas, let alone capacity. Even if I and the Government are in agreement, it should be added to those who listen to the debate that, in any case, this will make money as a communications infrastructure provider. The only question is how much money to make. This is really what the discussion is all about. The debate is highly consensual. With this addition, I would like to thank the Government for the debate. This is the first time we have met in this House, but it will certainly not be the last.
i-ed106f1e476efc1d-372	Mr President, I would like to I can say thank you too! I think these were important issues that Erik Ottoson raised, both about data roaming and about the 700 band. I look forward to future discussions in this area.
