i-f975ccf43fa835d5-4	Mr President, I would like to Michael Svensson has asked the former High School Minister Aida Hadzialic about what she intends to do to increase the number of teacher-led lessons. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The Swedish National Board of Education was tasked by the previous government to investigate compliance with the provisions on guaranteed teaching time in upper secondary school and how teaching time is ensured in a nationally representative selection of upper secondary schools. Guaranteed teaching time is the minimum teaching time in hours that students should be offered on, for example, a national programme in upper secondary school. The assignment was presented to the Government Office in the report mentioned by Michael Svensson. I think it is extremely important that all pupils in the school system are given the opportunity to achieve the objectives of education. The guaranteed teaching time is one of several factors to ensure the quality of the education. The National Agency for Education's report provides valuable information on the challenges that may exist in ensuring that pupils in the national programmes of upper secondary school receive the teaching time to which they are entitled and thus provide an important basis for the continued work to ensure the quality of upper secondary school. A prerequisite for teaching at school is that there are teachers who want and can teach. To strengthen the attractiveness of the profession, the government has launched a national collection for the teaching profession. The government conducts discussions in this forum with teachers' unions and employers with the aim of creating the conditions for attracting, retaining and developing a high-quality teaching staff. Among other things, we discuss how the competence reform can be managed, how school leaders can get better opportunities for their pedagogical leadership and how new teachers can get a good introduction to the teaching profession. The fact that teachers have time to be teachers and can focus on their main mission is important for each student to receive a high quality education. In the spring of 2016, the Test investigation submitted an interim report which included suggestions on how national tests can be digitised, which can contribute to reducing teachers' administrative burden. Through the Government's investment in teachers' salaries, the so-called L honorary wage initiative, school leaders should be encouraged to give specially qualified teachers, preschool teachers or leisure teachers a higher salary in order to thereby contribute to an increased quality of teaching, to improved knowledge results and to the development of activities in general. There is also research that points to the teacher's teaching skills as the single most important factor for pupils' knowledge acquisition and results. The Government's efforts on the Mathematical Lift, the Teacher Lift and other training and competence development efforts for teachers aim to strengthen and develop the quality of teaching and thus increase pupils' achievement of their goals. Completing upper secondary education is important, both for the individual and for the national skills supply. The government has therefore commissioned a special investigator to analyse and propose measures for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education – Directive 2015:31. One obvious factor of success is that education in upper secondary school, as well as in the school system in general, is carried out by competent teachers.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-10	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer, or if you may say the department's answer. Welcome also, I believe, to the Minister's first interpellation debate! Now I would like to know what Anna Ekström thinks about this issue and not just what the department thought a few weeks ago. We agree that high school is very important. Upper secondary school is the way out of life or perhaps the way to further education for a great many young people. No matter what route you take, we all agree that high school today does not provide the education and knowledge that we are entitled to expect. Between 12 000 and 15 000 pupils each year disappear without having a full or full upper secondary school degree with them. There are fairly accurate socio-economic calculations that are made on this, which weigh in ill health, lower average income and shorter life expectancy – you simply fall away from earlier in illness and other things. This costs society between 15 and 20 million over one life cycle per individual. If we only count very low 10 million and 10 000 pupils per year, the huge amount that municipalities are in many cases unable to invest away because they do not see the plus sign in the budget. It may not be for 15 to 20 years, perhaps in another part of the country. We also have many other problems in high school. The search pressure for the professional programmes is dropping. We know that for many years and not since 2011, as the current government claims. It is an international trend that has been going on for perhaps ten to twelve years. I would almost like to say that the situation in many high schools is disastrous, and I wonder if the Government agrees with that. I have not least followed my own children's schooling in upper secondary school n in Falkenberg. Of course, it's not a scientific study, but I see how vastly many teacherless lessons there are. Many lessons are cancelled, and there is no substitute. Then it can possibly say that it is due to a lack of teachers, but it is clear that it is also because the headmaster and the municipality have found a good way to save money, and then you save on the students' future. I think this is extremely serious. The problem is that we keep laying a bottom plate. This applies both to the ambition of getting a D instead of an F in grades and not an A or B, and of course the same is true with the number of lessons. The fact that the binding between the points of the course and the number of hours is gone is of course a very good way to save money. I have sometimes asked my children why they come home so early in the day. Well, Dad, it's simply because the course is over, they answer. The course has already been completed before the 100 hours have ended. Maybe they made the course in 80 hours instead. My question is whether the Government agrees with this description and is in a position to intervene very soon through action.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-19	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the passionate argument for a high-quality high school! Of course, we fully agree on how extremely important it is for high school to fulfil its task. The student who does not complete his or her upper secondary education has very big problems. It is difficult to get into further studies and also very difficult to get into the labour market. But it is not only the individual student who is affected when the upper secondary school is not working. It is also the surrounding society in the form of potential employers. Michael Svensson mentioned the very difficult situation that applies to many professional programmes, where recruitment is weak and where sometimes professional programmes are not given in a locality or in a region due to a combination of lack of search pressure and difficulties in planning for upper secondary school. No, there is no doubt that high school has great problems, even if the word disaster is a word that I would probably not touch in my mouth. If we look at the major review made by the OECD of Swedish upper secondary school – it is actually part of the OECD's review of the entire school system – we see that the OECD points to problems in terms of governance, financing, skills provision and the supply of teachers. All these parts the government is working very hard with, partly within the framework of the school commission that is appointed but also within the framework of the major investigation that is currently under way and that Michael Svensson is very knowledgeable about. It is the high school inquiry in which Michael Svensson is part of the reference group and which is due to present his report at the end of October. Very much of the problems that Michael Svensson points out are problems that are to be dealt with today, within the framework of our system, by the so-called principal – a municipal or an independent principal. The important player in this context is, of course, the many principals who are currently responsible for running high school. At the same time, of course, the state cannot silently see that the results are falling and that equivalence is deteriorating in our Swedish upper secondary school. That is why it is important that we carry out the major and thorough investigations that are currently under way. May I also point out how important it is that the lessons given in upper secondary school are not just given. We agree on this. And we know from the Swedish National Agency for Education that we have problems with the fact that lessons are simply not carried out. The lessons carried out shall, of course, be of high quality. Here the Swedish upper secondary school, like the rest of the school, is in a worrying position with the difficulties we have with the supply of teachers. Then it becomes even more important that we take a little joint action and together make sure that we can strengthen the teaching profession. It is about ensuring that the teaching profession becomes an attractive profession, a profession that many people want to return to, a profession that many people want to stay in and a profession that many people want to apply to. The efforts that are now being made together with SKL, the National Association of Free Schools and the teaching unions are very important to ensure that the teaching profession gets the attractiveness that it actually deserves.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-24	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Government that the word disaster is a very strong word. But if my eye looks right, there are a number of high school students up in the gallery. They would certainly be able to testify to this. They may be happy sometimes when lessons are cancelled. However, even with regard to what will be discussed in the next interpellation debate, the absence, I would like to say that in some upper secondary schools it is almost a catastrophic situation. There is talk of skilled teachers. That is, of course, extremely important. Fortunately, we now see that the search pressure goes up on teacher training, especially education for upper secondary school teachers. It is perhaps also a problem that we have to deal with together: What to do with 7-9 teachers, where the search pressure does not go up to the same extent at all? We usually say that the way to a better college, to put it very simple, is of course that we have a better high school. And a better high school we get by having a better elementary school. But high school is extremely important. As I said, it's a leap into life for a lot of students, for those who don't choose to go to higher education immediately. The answer talks about giving a special investigator the task of analysing and proposing measures for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education. We know that some 99.5% apply to upper secondary school, although not everyone has competence for the national programmes. But what I'm talking about here and want to point out is that even if you complete high school, you might do it with poor grades. You may have skilled teachers, but you do not get at all the teaching time that you really should get. We already know that Swedish students, seen from an OECD perspective, have a very low number of hours compared to what it is like in many other countries. One way to get to grips with this quite quickly is of course to return the link between the price points and the hours. Then the question is whether Anna Ekström is prepared to do so.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-29	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we agree that high school is in trouble. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have a large number of schools in Sweden. Both Michael Svensson and I often make school visits and see amazing high school schools, where students get a wonderful start on both their professional life and the future study life. But we also have very big problems. A particular concern with regard to upper secondary school is that we know so little about the results of the education. As with primary school, we are very dependent on the international surveys that are being carried out to keep track of the development of results and how knowledge develops in the Swedish school. In the field of upper secondary school, we are referred to relatively few studies. Fortunately, there will be such a survey in the autumn, at the end of November. It's the one called Timss Advanced. Through it we will get a picture of how the development is going in the Swedish upper secondary school. We should be very happy that we can get that picture. As far as the results are concerned, we are concerned that we have seen downward results in primary school in several surveys. Previously we also have a downward result in Timss Advanced. We also know from the studies carried out at various technical colleges that students' knowledge of mathematics has steadily deteriorated, although in recent years we have seen a brake on it. Another concern concerns equivalence, which I raised in my reply and which I have not heard much about from Michael Svensson. This equivalence is a major problem in the Swedish upper secondary school. There can be a very big difference between one high school and another. Like Michael Svensson, I am very concerned that the guaranteed teaching time is not being maintained. We know from the statistics that many hours will not happen. We know it's a big concern. I can only point to the relationship that occurs when a student changes school and how important it is to keep track of how many hours the student has received in different subjects and courses in order for the student to have his or her right to education and education satisfied. But it is also the case, as we know from various school inspection audits, that the teaching time that is recorded does not always have the content that we want a teaching period to have. We fully agree that this is a very urgent problem. It may be the school's most important resource – the time we set aside for the meeting between knowledge-thirsty students and knowledgeable teachers. Michael Svensson raises the question of whether the government will appoint a special investigator to propose measures for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education. That investigation is already in full swing. It is the study that is due to submit its final report at the end of October. We're really looking forward to that investigation. It will be an important basis for moving forward towards a secondary school where we ensure that students receive the teaching and the teaching time they are entitled to and that the teaching time really has a high quality content. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out how important it is that the teachers of upper secondary school receive a really good development of skills. This is also an area where we have less knowledge than in primary school. But thanks to the Talis survey, we know how big a problem we have in that area in primary school, and there is quite little to suggest that it is better in upper secondary school.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-36	Mr President, I would like to True, there are many problems. But of course, we should also remember, which is often forgotten in these contexts, that there is a lot of good out in school. There are an enormous number of good and skilled teachers. As I mentioned, it is a catastrophic situation here and there, but overall it is of course very good. We often focus on the 10, 15, 20 percent that are bad or poor and don't talk much about the 80, 90 percent that are good. But our task is, of course, to raise our targets to 100%. Then it is clear that it is important to talk about what errors are. This issue of equivalence is a problem, just as the Government is addressing it. Another problem is the management chain, which the OECD pointed out in its report on the Swedish school last spring. I would like to go so far as to say that it is a huge understatement to many municipalities in the country that do not get their chain of command in order. In addition, there is a great deal of difference between the 290 different school heads we have in the country. For this reason, of course, I would like to see tougher national governance of the Swedish school, because I think that is the only way to deal with this. So there are many problems that we are going to deal with. That is why I am pleased to be able to debate with Anna Ekström. We have probably never had a high school minister who has had as much knowledge of the Swedish school as she has, given her previous job as Director General.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-40	Mr President, I would like to It is always interesting to discuss upper secondary school with Michael Svensson. It may be part of the tone in the Riksdag that one should take honor and honor from one another, but I would like to take this opportunity to give some praise to Michael Svensson for the constructive tone that often characterizes the interventions about upper secondary school. I think it is very good, because I am convinced that the Swedish upper secondary school is in great need of long-termness and of fairly safe and secure rules of play. Michael Svensson raises a major problem that I agree with, namely that many municipalities have problems managing and financing their high school. We see results from this, for example, in access to professional programmes, which are very different across the country. There, as Michael Svensson points out, our control system poses major problems for municipalities to ensure that there is access to upper secondary education in the way it should be available throughout the country. In particular, a very large part of the upper secondary school is run by independent principals. Here, too, we see major quality problems ranging from drop-out to accounting and implementation of teaching. All of this is becoming increasingly acute in a situation where a large proportion of pupils in upper secondary school age are newly arrived in Swedish school. Between the ages of 13 and 18 and perhaps even more between 16 and 18, there are really large groups of newly arrived students. It goes without saying that it will place very great demands on the Swedish upper secondary school to ensure a good education for the many new arrivals, who with a good education can have a really good opportunity to contribute to our society.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-44	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I and the government intend to act to ensure that the heads of high schools assume their full responsibility as principals of pupils' presence. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked me whether I intend to include upper secondary school in the ongoing investigation into pupils' absences, or whether we can expect an own investigation into this. The absence of pupils is a major problem and a sign that efforts to prevent and remedy absenteeism need to be improved. If a student's absence is not noticed and investigated early, the risk of long-term or regular absence increases. For the individual student, such absence can lead to great difficulties. Incomplete upper secondary education makes it difficult for future active participation in continuing education as well as professional and social life. Learning in itself and completion of schooling with good results lead to reduced ill health and reduced risk of exclusion. A broad range of measures is needed to combat the absence and interruption of upper secondary school and to create an attractive upper secondary school for all. The Government's objective is for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education. That is why the Government appointed the High School Investigation, Directive 2015:31, will be ready to present its mission by 31 October 2016. The Swedish National Board of Education has developed general guidelines for promoting attendance and paying attention to, investigating and remedying absenteeism at school. It is about support for the Vice-Chancellor in his work to promote attendance, to create routines for continuous absence reporting and information to pupils and guardians about both obligations and invalid absences. In addition, student health has an important role in the work with students to prevent absenteeism. In order to strengthen pupil health, the Government has introduced a state grant to increase staff density in pupil health, as well as in special pedagogic efforts and for further training in such efforts. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to identify pupils' absences in compulsory school forms, Directive 2015:119. The investigator will analyse the causes of absenteeism and suggest how the school's work to promote attendance and take action in the event of absenteeism can be improved. The aim is to ensure the right of all pupils to an equivalent level of education. The assignment shall be presented by 30 December 2016. If the investigator finds that proposals on how to improve the work on attendance promotion also have bearings at upper secondary school and upper secondary school, the investigator may submit proposals for measures in these forms of school as well. The government has therefore taken several measures to address pupils' absences and does not currently intend to set up a special study on pupils' absences in upper secondary school.
i-Wwdj8HayexFJfzTpFojdA5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Anna Ekström, for your answer! CSN's statistics for 2016 show that the proportion of pupils in the country who have had their student aid withdrawn due to truancy is 7.8 per cent. Two years earlier the figure was 6.6 per cent. Some counties show figures as high as 11 - 12 percent. Some municipalities are still much higher: Gotland 12.2 per cent, Hofors 16.5 per cent, Arjeplog 25.3 per cent – and they are by no means the highest. This means that in Arjeplog one in four high school students is gone so much that they do not receive student support. It's 25 students out of 100, an entire class. Upper secondary schools have the task of reporting in truancy. In addition to the alarming statistics, I have also been told that there can sometimes be a culture to be cautious in absenteeism reporting because the withdrawal of student grants from CSN can have devastating effects on a family. Thus, there may be even more students who are not in school beyond those found in this alarming report. Despite new reporting rules, there seems to be a lack of clarity as to how the reporting of absenteeism should be applied. School absences in students are one of the greatest risk factors for children and young people to end up wrong in life. The OECD's evaluation of Swedish schools reveals that absenteeism is a major problem. Swedish students are absent to a considerably higher extent than students in other countries. Mr President, I would like to The high school investigation was expanded and extended. Just as Minister Anna Ekström writes in her reply, it should be completed on 31 October, i.e. in a couple of weeks. But already in 2013 a thesis came about why pupils skip school, which shows that the reasons for truancy are too little praise, low expectations and poor support in teaching. Time passes, both here in the speaker's chair and for these young people. I am talking about the 25% in Arjeplog which is not enough in school. If the school also – we can think about the previous interpellation debate – has an increased number of lessons without teachers, we will soon be standing with schools without either students or teachers. For Vallentuna, the figure is 30.1%. Almost one in three children in Vallentuna is at risk of exclusion, and one important factor is that they are not in school. They do not get the school to which they are entitled. They have the right to be seen and to receive support in teaching, and of course adults should have high expectations of them. I therefore find it sad that the Government is satisfied with the efforts that have been made. So nothing more is needed here, she says. I find that boring. Of course, we should not anticipate the Gymnasie inquiry, but one can still highlight individual issues earlier if one thinks it is urgent and important. Already last winter we were able to read on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website: The authorities need to ensure that the actions are followed up and evaluated. ..................................................... The high school students who are now in second grade and third grade have finished at the next election. For them, it's urgent. The fact that the Government does not take a serious approach to the issue of school absence with the principals is strange. That is irresponsible, Mr President.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-60	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell concluded by mentioning the word irresponsibly. Although the governance system of the Swedish school has been criticised by the OECD, this is still the case. There lies the great responsibility for the results and quality of the upper secondary school of the so-called principal. The principal is a municipal principal or an independent principal. I can be a little worried that sometimes you forget the responsibilities of the principals. Especially surprising can it be when Alexandra Anstrell, with her rich experience as a municipal headman in a large municipality in the Stockholm area, goes over the principal's responsibility for the issue with a light hand. The principal is responsible for performance and quality, but our constitution also includes a number of other people – figures – who have responsibilities. There is the principal's important responsibility, which is made clear in the School Act and the High School Ordinance. Responsibility is also made clear in the general advice that the Swedish National Agency for Education has drawn up. There is the important responsibility of teachers. Working with absenteeism is often a task that lies with teachers, but it is also an important task for teachers, as Alexandra Anstrell pointed out, to ensure that the quality of teaching is so high that pupils also want to participate in teaching. I also think it is important to point out the relationship that applies to upper secondary school today as a non-compulsory form of school. It has been clearly written in different curricula and management documents that students should be trained to take greater responsibility with increasing age. Does this mean that I settle down and think that the state can sit back and not care about the issue, as Alexandra Anstrell suggests? No, really not. The government cannot quietly see that the Swedish school and the Swedish upper secondary school have problems in this area too. That is why the Government has set up an investigation that will soon present its proposals, namely the High School Investigation. Then there is the study that deals with issues that concern precisely reasons for absence, and it will make suggestions for how the school's work to promote attendance and take action in the event of absenteeism can be improved. I would very much like to point out that this investigation has the opportunity to propose measures even in upper secondary and secondary schools if the investigation finds that the proposals on which it is working may have bearings also on those forms of school. Alexandra Anstrell and I share the view on the problem picture. I assume that we share the view that the principal has the great responsibility for the results and quality of the school forms within which the principal conducts school. I also believe that we agree that an important task for the state will be to follow up, ensure and provide good tools to make the system interrelated. My assessment is that absence is a major and serious problem. It is an important problem for many students, parents and, ultimately, for society. But I wouldn't sign up to Alexandra Anstrell's assessment that the government, or I, is not interested in the issue.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-68	Mr President, I would like to The government and I agree that the principal is responsible. But there is a mission, and so I wondered how the Government intends to act to ensure that the principals assume their full responsibility. When setting goals or giving assignments, you have to follow up on what you had planned to do. School absenteeism among students is one of the greatest risk factors for children and young people going wrong in life. Then there is a high school where the teacherless lessons seem to be increasing, and the school is increasing alarmingly. Then there's the bullying. It can be mean words, whispers, glances and laughter, or that someone is never allowed to attend. Someone can be mean to another about how he dresses or looks in a certain way. In Stockholm, a Stockholm survey is conducted continuously. The results of the latest survey in 2016 show that drug use is slightly increasing in high school, but the crime rate is decreasing – mostly in boys; in girls it is constant. On the question of whether students think living is really wonderful, just over 60 percent agree. If they're going to put a score on their mental health where 0 is really bad and 100 is the highest possible value, girls in grade 2 in high school rank at low 49 percent and the guys at 63 percent– it's also low but not as low. However, 90 percent of students seem to enjoy schooling, but over 10 percent experience bullying. Of the 10 percent, one third feel that they are bullied twice a month or more. Then I think that the investment in student health that the Government is talking about is not enough. Mr President, I would like to As early as 2011, the Swedish National Agency for Education was given a clear mandate to strengthen student health. I must point out that I do not think that the efforts of the government referred to by the Government in its response provide sufficient support to the municipalities. I do not think that the problems are being taken seriously. An inquiry into the absence from primary school has been set up. The Government of Ekström answers me that if proposals in the investigation may have bearings also at upper secondary school, the investigator may also submit proposals for measures for upper secondary school. That's nice. Of course, one should be nice, but a government must be clear and lead Sweden towards school success. If the children are not in school, there are serious problems. Now we've passed half the term of office, and even if the Government is new to the mission, I won't blame you for this. That is why I had been looking forward to a little bigger efforts and thoughts on the issue of school absence. The fact is that the efforts for the school are not enough. Anyone who is serious about turning school development in Sweden so that more students can learn more must have a plan for a better school. The Moderates do. We want to give students more time with their teachers, get more skilled teachers, and increase school attendance. Mr President, I would like to That the government is unable to take responsibility for our young people and Sweden's future, we Moderates will never allow. Sweden needs a new government that takes the problems seriously.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-76	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell deals nicely with the major problems of bullying in the Swedish school. We know from statistics that the perceived mental illness is increasing in an alarming way for girls in particular, not least in upper secondary school. These are problems that are important and worth taking very seriously. At the same time, we know that there has been a great deal of work going on for several years to prevent bullying in the Swedish school. If we look at the Swedish National Agency for Education's big review of attitudes to school, a regular year-by-year follow-up survey, we see that students, parents and teachers feel that bullying work is moving in the right direction. According to the large survey, the problem is reduced. However, I would really like to point out that this does not mean that the problem should not be taken very seriously. Nor does it mean that you should stop working on the problem. It's an important task for the school. During the interpellation debate, we discussed how the school should be run. We have been dealing with questions about the principal's responsibilities, the responsibilities of principals and teachers and the responsibility of the state. In Sweden there is a consensus that there are problems with the management of the school. The OECD studies show this, but we have also seen reports from the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Swedish National Audit Office and Statskontoret showing how problematic the governance of the Swedish school is. One such problem is how the state chooses to invest in school. There is a sharp dividing line between the government's efforts and those proposed in the moderate budget exercise. When the government spends large, significant funds on a general state grant, where the municipalities as principals are given great opportunities to use resources and funds in the manner prescribed by the law, as general advice and government regulation states, and take responsibility for the efforts, the Moderates choose to spend their efforts on the school in even more targeted state grants. These are targeted state grants that in fact, according to Statskontoret's and the Swedish National Audit Office's evaluations, reduce the opportunities for the authorities to organise a really good school management. In fact, we fully agree on the problems. We agree that the great responsibility for performance and quality lies with the principals. V i agree that the state should contribute, monitor, evaluate and provide clear and strong support to principals, principals and teachers. Unfortunately, we do not agree on how state aid should be provided. When the government considers that the support should be given in such a way that it demonstrates trust and trust in principals and professions, the Moderates choose to spend their support on targeted state grants in a way that will not be welcomed by Alexandra Anstrell's many moderate colleagues who are responsible for school in the country.
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-83	Mr President, I would like to That the work against bullying is going in the right direction is really good. No one should be subjected to bullying. This shows that the Alliance's efforts in, for example, the care guarantee in children's and young people's psychiatry have produced results. The school should provide education and learning for life, not just working life, regardless of your background or where you go to school. The School Inspectorate has examined the school's work to prevent school breaks in the national vocational programmes in 30 upper secondary schools. All schools must develop the work of providing pupils with the educational support they need to complete their education. Of the 126 students interviewed in schools, the majority are at risk of not reaching a vocational qualification. The review shows, among other things, that teaching is not based on students' needs and that students feel that teachers do not listen to what they need in and outside the teaching situation. The problem is that reasons for absence are rarely investigated. You don't even ask the students why they're not there. Almost none of the schools map or investigate the reasons for pupils' absences and need for support in school to a sufficient extent. Several students say that they do not have motivation or energy to go to school and that no one at school has asked them why. Teachers describe that it is difficult to build relationships with many of the students, partly because the students are simply not in place and the teachers do not know what to do. Much of the students feel that mentors or teachers do not understand or are not interested in their needs. I believe that this is not acceptable. While the government is sitting still in the boat, we risk losing several student litters. It is not in this way that we meet the needs of operating in a global world with ever more fierce competition. The fact that one then as a minister does not take a more serious approach to school absence is strange. I really wonder: Are you satisfied with this, Anna Ekström?
i-f975ccf43fa835d5-90	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who has listened to this interpellation debate has probably understood that I am not in the least satisfied with the state of the Swedish upper secondary school, whether in terms of the results of knowledge, equivalence or the presence of the students. I have also presented a number of measures that the government has developed to further develop. We are really looking forward to having those investigations. At the same time, I actually believe, Alexandra Anstrell, that we agree that the really big and important task is not to write laws, regulations or regulations. The really important effort is the work done in schools on a daily basis. That is what we are going to support. I would like to point out that student health, which Alexandra Anstrell well mentioned, is an area that needs to be strengthened. That's really true. Therefore, student health is also subject to a fairly proper initiative by the government, an initiative that I think is important. I look forward to giving it the opportunity to work at school. I would also like to point out that we have talked a lot about teachers and principals in this interpellation debate. However, in preventing absenteeism, there are many other professions that are extremely important in school. I think about student health, and I think about everything from doctors and nurses to school library staff, school psychologists and occupational therapists. It is professions that can make very important efforts to complement what is to be done in education. As I said, we agree on the problem. We agree that the principal has a very great responsibility. We agree that the Government and Parliament should contribute. The only thing we do not seem to really agree on is whether the contributions should be made through great confidence in the school heads or whether they should be done through even more targeted state subsidies, which have been severely criticised by several bodies.
