i-f76804f5e6e13918-0	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me what I am going to do to ensure that Sweden's hunters, sportsmen and arms collectors are not affected by the new proposal for a directive, whether I am going to demand an impact assessment of the new proposals and whether I believe that stricter rules are needed for hunters, sportsmen and arms collectors in Sweden. In addition to the legislative proposal itself, the proposal presented by the Commission on 18 November last year also contains text explaining, justifying and clarifying the proposal. In addition, on the same day, the Commission presented an evaluation report on the current EU arms directive, which includes, inter alia, background, views, recommendations and future analysis. The government welcomes a review of the EU weapons directive. In the light of last year's serious terrorist attacks in which firearms came into use, it is urgent that the EU legal framework on firearms be reviewed. The government believes it is important that society's control of the most dangerous weapons is strengthened. For example, fully automatic weapons are already banned in most EU Member States. At the same time, I and the government have doubts about certain other aspects of the Commission's proposal. This concerns, for example, fixed-term licences and compulsory medical checks. There is a need for flexibility so that any restrictive measure is justified by a real increase in safety. Certain proposals should therefore, if implemented, only apply to certain particularly dangerous types of weapons. This avoids a burdensome regulatory framework for licence holders whose holdings are deemed to pose a lower risk. Also for voluntary defence organisations, an unnecessarily burdensome regulatory framework should be avoided. I have met representatives of hunting and shooting associations to listen to their views. The proposal has also been referred to. The Government is keen to give interested parties the opportunity to speak.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-5	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Initially, I would like to say that there is a great deal of concern in Skyttesverige and Huntsverige today, given the new proposal on the arms directive. Many are in need of their weapons in order to be able to handle their trainings, competitions, game conservation and other things in Sweden. It is important that this is handled in a good way. The problem with the weapons that the EU is chasing today is that it is illegal weapons, often from war cores and other things, used throughout Europe. Sweden's shooters and hunters have a broad education, both theoretical and practical. You have to take and pass the tests, and you have to achieve certain results in order to acquire and own a weapon. We have safe and secure weapons storage. It is also being tested whether we are fit to have weapons and hold a licence. There are few weapons from shooters and hunters who fall into the wrong hands and are used in crime. Terrorist crimes in Europe really have nothing to do with Sweden's hunters or sportsmen. In the case of terrorist offences, it is almost exclusively illegal weapons from former war cores or weapons that have been smuggled into Europe that have been used. In its eagerness to resolve terrorism in Europe, the Commission has made a haste and put forward a proposal that does not solve the problems of illegal weapons of war. Instead, the proposal targets and blindly strikes sportsmen and hunters. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. To put forward proposals that are so wrong and completely miss the goal is not to take responsibility for the problem itself. There is also no impact assessment of the proposal, which leads to a complete loss of confidence in the proposal that has been drawn up. This can be seen not least in the referrals that have now been received, after 7 January. Most consultation bodies clearly indicate that the proposal is not well thought out. The proposal will not allow the problem of illegal weapons to be addressed. If introduced, the proposal will also hamper education and increase costs in the country. The defense writes, among other things, that it would be to the detriment of the innumerable defence and the war ability of the armed forces. It is also said that it would impair access to education. It would also increase the cost of the response. The Crime Prevention Council, Brå, writes in its referral that legal weapons are extremely rare in criminal contexts. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency disagrees and says that it would hamper the possibility of a good game management. It is also mentioned that the problems of more checks and more trials of licences would make it more difficult for the police, and also increase costs for that matter. Regarding the ownership of arms, the Administrative Court points out whether or not to recall them. And hunters and shooters basically say absolutely no to the whole proposal, except perhaps some part concerning the studied vap one. This clearly indicates that the proposal needs to be re-examined. I know that the Minister has been critical of the proposal and that he sees the problems. I welcome that. But I get the feeling that the Minister believes that terrorism will be reduced if we ban certain automatic sporting weapons and semi-automatic sporting weapons in Sweden. Nevertheless, this is suggested in the answer. I would like an answer if it is not reasonable for this to be withdrawn, for an impact assessment to be carried out and for a new proposal to be made, rather than working on it.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-16	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says in his reply to Sten Bergheden that the Government has referred the proposal and that the Government is keen that interested parties should be heard. Sounds good. But in practice the period of referral was extremely short, from December 12 to January 5, and many days passed away due to Christmas and New Year holidays. Despite the tight time margin, many responded. And the result is amazing. Almost everyone saws the proposal. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Hunter Association are united in their positions against the proposal, which should be unique. It is no wonder, though, that authorities and organisations representing different interests are united against a hasty proposal where the will to show action seems to have outweighed reason. My colleague, Sten Bergheden, pointed out that the Swedish Armed Forces are also clear that the proposal would have a negative impact on the total defence and the military capability of the units. Why? Indeed, in the hard-edged organization of the defence, there are no resources available for them to maintain excellence in all places of training themselves. Therefore, the defence is dependent on civilian shooting organisations whose members assist the defence by each instructor in training and participating in competitions and other development work. The Minister further states in his reply that the government considers it important that society's control of the most dangerous weapons be strengthened. What does the Minister mean by the most dangerous weapons? I think the most dangerous weapons are the illegal weapons. These are the weapons used for terrorism and crime. It is quite the wrong symbolic policy to clamp down on law-abiding gun owners instead of taking a strong stand against crime. What is the most dangerous — a hand grenade that an 18-year-old throws at a police car or an elk bouncer locked in a safe? In the wrong hands, anything can become a dangerous weapon. A car that someone drives into a crowd, a kitchen knife that someone is waving blindly with can become a dangerous weapon. The Crime Prevention Council also believes that the proposal is ineffective because it misses the large amount of illegal weapons that exist in society.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-24	Mr President, I would like to I understood that I received two questions, one from Sten Bergheden and partly one from Boriana Åberg. If I understood it correctly, Sten Bergheden asked: is it not reasonable if the proposal is withdrawn and revised? To that question, the answer is simple: Yes, it is reasonable. I have also personally expressed this view to the responsible Commissioner, Dimitris Avramopoulos. I hope that will also be the result. Boriana Åberg asked: What is a dangerous weapon? A dangerous weapon is a weapon that has high capacity, high initial speed, and which, by its own power, can shoot many shots without mantle movement. It's a dangerous weapon. Then there is a falling scale down to kitchen knives and stones. There's a huge difference between an AK5 and a kitchen knife if you're going to do a terrorist attack. Mr President, I would like to Having said that we share the criticism of parts of the EU arms directive, I must nevertheless ask Boriana Åberg and Sten Bergheden: Have you not seen what has happened in Europe? Haven't you seen what weapons have been used in the acts of terror? The attacks in France used legal, deactivated weapons that had been reactivated. Such weapons were used in the acts against Charlie Hebdo, Hyper Cacher and Bataclan where concert visitors were executed. It was legal weapons, bought in stores in Germany and France respectively, and legal weapons purchased in the Czech Republic and Slovakia which had subsequently been reactivated. Mangs in Malmö used legal weapons for which he had a license. Breivik – the worst terrorist in Scandinavia since the Second World War – had a semi-automatic hunting weapon for which he had a license. Such dangerous weapons must be removed from the streets of the European Union. That is why we must not just talk about the inconvenience that this proposal causes to Swedish hunters. We must also see the reality as it is and deal with these types of weapons.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-28	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I think it is good if the Commission withdraws and revises this proposal. Above all, it would be a good idea to describe the proposals in the future before handing over to countries a position on proposals that are so wrong and that are not fully thought out. The Minister asked us questions. If you do a plugged gun, drill it out, and fix it up so it can be used, it's an illegal weapon. These are not weapons used by sporting associations, hunters or collectors. When it comes to banning weapons that have not been properly studied or studied so badly that they can be restored to normal condition, I agree with the Minister. When studying weapons, it must be done in such a way that it becomes so difficult to restore the weapons that it is impossible. In the case of Mangs in Malmö and Breivik, we cannot ban sportsmen, hunters and others from using the weapons best suited for sports shooting or hunting just because there are a few people who completely tip over. These people had acquired any illegal weapon for their criminal act. Breivik planned his action for over a year. He would have arranged for an illegal weapon to be able to carry out the actions he had planned. It cannot affect Sweden's owners and Sweden's sportsmen that there are real weirdos around the world. Mr President, I would like to I would like to make another point about sporting activities. If it were to be limited to not including fully automatic or semi-automatic weapons, it would have an enormous impact on the activities of the shooting associations. This, in turn, would affect the training that security personnel must undergo, i.e. bodyguards, police officers and the defence that must be able to train shooting. The Skytte Associations are doing a great deal of work to maintain a certain form of infrastructure that helps to keep the preparedness of the rest of society at the top level. This development would be hampered by the disappearance of the shooting associations, and it would increase the costs of the defence, the police and other things if they themselves had to keep this activity going. One should be aware that semi-automatic and fully automatic weapons are used precisely for training, training and competitions. The use of these weapons in Sweden is not a risk because they are under good control. These are not weapons used in acts of terror. Instead, we should look more closely at what we can do in Europe. Today there are a lot of war weapons hidden away from the various war centers. Perhaps some kind of amnesty of arms should be considered in Europe in order to collect the weapons. Perhaps a scrapping premium could be introduced so that the people who hold the weapons can have an opportunity to give them up. There should be tighter border controls, the exchange of information and the fight against crime between the different countries in order to get to the big leagues and those who are preparing for terrorist crimes. There should also be more cops out on the road.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-34	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden mentioned a great deal of what I myself intended to reply to the Minister. Breivik used a weapon that is forbidden in Sweden. In addition, he used fertilizer to produce the bomb that killed nine people in the government quarters. That's why it's wrong to generalize. As I said before, anything can become a dangerous weapon in the wrong hands. I still find it unfortunate that the government is buying the Commission's argument that it is by restricting the rules of the law-abiding arms owners that it fights terrorism. There must be an end to symbolism as a substitute for solutions to the real problems of illegal weapons and explosives. When I was preparing for this debate, I looked a little at foreign websites, including on Bulgarian pages because Bulgaria produced weapons during the Communist era. It says that you can buy a k alasjnikov, also known as the AK47, on the black market without too much effort for a sum of between 500 and 1,000 Swedish kronor. It is totally reprehensible, and that is where the Commission's efforts must be directed. Mr President, I would like to The final question in Sten Bergheden's interpellation can in principle be answered by yes or no. It reads: Does the Government consider that stricter rules are needed for Sweden's hunters, sportsmen and collectors? Please answer with a yes or no, Anders Ygeman!
i-f76804f5e6e13918-38	Mr President, I would like to I wish the world were so simple that you could answer yes or no to any question, that it is either legal weapons or illegal weapons that are responsible for terrorist attacks. But it's not that simple. When it comes to collectors, I think we need tougher rules. The rules in place in the EU on the deactivation of weapons are too weak and allow weapons to be easily reactivated and used in terrorist acts. If it's a restriction on the collector's ability to collect weapons, well, then I'm in favour of it. I don't want to see any more terrorist acts with deactivated weapons reactivated. That is a clear and simple answer. Otherwise, I believe that the arms management we have in Sweden is a good example for the European Union, both in terms of what types of weapons are allowed and not allowed in Sweden and in terms of, for example, the storage of weapons, where I think the EU countries have a lot to learn from Sweden. I might be a little worried about your sense of ease in the face of the guns. I don't think you're representative of the Moderate Coalition Party. Boriana Åberg says anything can become a dangerous weapon. Sten Bergheden says they had obtained weapons anyway. We cannot afford this laxity in the face of the weapons. We need to reduce the availability of dangerous weapons. Otherwise we will see more events of the kind we have seen around the world. And we will unfortunately increase the risk of them happening in Sweden. That is why a serious debate must be held on weapons. Although I have asked the Commission to revise its proposal because it is so flawed on several points, there are also very good parts of the proposal. It's about weapons, weapons deactivated. It is about the tracing and marking of weapons, which will allow us to keep them under control. In this respect, the EU has weakened Swedish legislation in the past. Perhaps we should also consider, contrary to what Sten Bergheden says, whether it is not reasonable to ban fully automatic weapons, as has been done in 25 EU Member States. Are there really strong enough reasons for them to be legal in Sweden but banned in England, Denmark, Germany and so on? I think I am prepared to consider whether we should not meet with the European Commission. However, with regard to medical certificates and the time limit and demarcation of semi-automatic weapons, I believe that the Commission's proposal is so inadequate that it should be reworked.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-44	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister. If you put a weapon in the hands of the wrong person or if he gets a weapon in another way, that is the problem, not the weapon itself. We have a variety of weapons within the Armed Forces and in many other places. And weapons are actually made, hear and behold, still continuously. In this way, we will acquire even more weapons for this world. There will therefore always be access to weapons. What we can get at is about the storage, the demands on the people who will get licences to use the weapons and the penalties for those who store or use weapons illegally. That is what we need to work on to reduce the illegal arsenal that exists and that we do not have control over. I was into it when we talked about calling for an amnesty of arms or something like that in Europe in order to get the weapons that people might have in different places around Europe. Mr President, I would like to As far as restrictions on these dangerous weapons are concerned, the Minister points out that it is the number that has to be reduced. I don't think so. It is the handling, storage and punishment of those who use them wrongs that we should access. If we were to remove the semi-automatic or fully automatic weapons here in Sweden, would it help to limit terrorism in Europe? The answer is no. We already know today that these weapons have not been used in the terrorist crimes in Europe. These weapons are used by our sportsmen and our hunters. They are stored in safe weapons cabinets and used for competition and training.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-48	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the use of fully automatic weapons in hunting in Sweden is very limited, to say the least. I hope that we will reach a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on our view of the arms directive. We'll see about that. I understand that we have broad agreement on the critical points that I have made and that we agree that the proposal should be reworked. I hope that we will also be able to reach broad agreement on banning fully automatic weapons if it will be necessary for the Commission to work on its proposal. I am not prepared to sacrifice Sweden's hunters and sportsmen in order for a small few to retain their fully automatic weapons.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-50	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has asked me what measures have been taken or are planned to be taken to ensure that the police use DNA technology in criminal investigation. The development of DNA technology has brought great progress to the judicial system's ability to clear up crimes. Of course, the police must exploit the possibilities offered by this tool, both in terms of obtaining DNA material and in terms of using the results of the analyses of the material. To a large extent, so do the police, but you can get even better. The police authority's own follow-up shows that there are large variations within and between police regions in how hit reports are handled, although there are procedures within the agency for this. In 2016, the Police Authority will therefore introduce a new and clearer routine in this area. Thus, DNA hits will be managed in a more uniform and systematic way. It also applies to hit reports from the fingerprint register. The police authority will also raise the level of ambition with regard to DNA sampling of suspects. Regular monitoring of the number of samples taken will be carried out at both national and regional level. In conclusion, therefore, work is under way to ensure a better handling of both DNA samples and DNA records. In parallel, each police region is building up a crime coordination function for operational crime analysis and forensic analysis, which aims to increase opportunities for identifying serial crime. These measures are important in order to increase the resolution of crime, and I will follow the efforts of the Political Authority in this area.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-54	Mr President, I would like to Ten years ago, when the possibility of taking DNA samples of suspected persons was extended by us here in Parliament, it was found that this could have significant positive consequences, mainly in the form of increased crime resolution and reduced suffering for victims. Since then, a great deal has happened. Today, DNA results can also be tested across national boundaries. Sweden has been involved in several countries, which can produce very good results. That's good. But successful work requires, on the one hand, taking DNA samples and doing proper crime scene investigations, and, on the other hand, finding out what it can lead to in a criminal investigation. Unfortunately, Dagens Nyheter has shown in an audit that the police do not even follow up hits systematically; crimes remain completely unsolved, despite having a DNA hit. Worse still, the National Forensic Centre announces that it is very poor at taking new DNA samples and renewing the content of our registers, which are becoming more and more contentless. We had a peak a few years ago, when special measures were taken, but it is a little embarrassing that after ten years the Police Authority has still not launched these procedures. Initiatives have been taken by and on, but certainly too little. A year ago, I asked the Minister of the Interior what he was going to do about these problems. At that time, the Minister for the Interior did not think there was a need for specific measures. I am therefore both pleased and surprised that we are now being told that during this year the Police Authority will introduce better procedures and address these issues. I think that's wise. What I wonder, of course, is how the Minister will ensure that what is needed really comes into place. It is extremely important to ensure that the Police Authority and everyone working within the police take on new methods. There is no point in us developing new opportunities through legislation and other means if they are not used. The worst thing is that, time and again, there have been cases of serious crimes where there has obviously been evidence to clear up the crimes and get to the perpetrators but where nothing has been done. I believe that trust in the authorities and the judiciary stands and falls in that people feel that they are doing what they can to clear up crimes. It would therefore be interesting to hear how the Minister for Home Affairs will now follow up on what the Police Authority is apparently going to do this year. We cannot have a situation where we are getting increasingly poor data in our own registers and where there is really only placard politics when we connect with other countries because we have outdated data in our systems because perpetrators have not entered even though they have probably already been in contact with the police. Cross-border crime is becoming increasingly evident. Not least when it comes to housing breaches in rural areas and a lot of other crimes, it is precisely through this technology that we have the opportunity to get to grips with it. We have leagues travelling through the country very quickly, across national borders and moving around Europe. That is why the European Union has made these opportunities and we have connected ourselves. But it says and falls with the basic work and core tasks of the Swedish police for our benefit. I think we need to have a clear follow-up there.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-61	Mr President, I would like to Of course, Beatrice Ask is absolutely right in terms of both the importance of connecting with other countries and having a good exchange. It requires the Police Authority to be able to follow it up when you get a hit in another country and to link it to the current investigation. It's not always a date means you can move on with the matter. It may be that it cannot be used and that it is still not possible to get on with the investigation even though you have a date. But of course, all the tracks should be followed up. If you have a suspected perpetrator, it should of course be topped so that it can be added to the DNA registry. It shall also be added that fingerprints shall also be taken. Especially in the case of fingerprints, we have seen a declining trend. You think topsing is enough. Perhaps it is that there have been too time-consuming and complicated procedures for fingerprinting, which has meant that you have chosen it out when you have had the opportunity to topsa. But both topping and fingerprinting must be done by the police so that we have an up-to-date and broad register to take advantage of. In that I totally agree with Beatrice Ask. Beatrice Ask asks me what I should do to ensure that what the police now claim to be doing is also done in reality. I'm gonna do two things. I intend to bring it up at national level in the dialogues we have on a regular basis with the police leadership so that they can continuously report to me how things are going. I will also raise it when I travel in the country and meet police chiefs in police regions and areas around them so that they feel that there is pressure so that it becomes a reality and that the decisions that have been taken together are followed up. It is hoped that this will lead to more top-ups, more clues being followed up and more suspects being arrested and prosecuted.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-67	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that. It was, in fact, a new message that the Minister for the Interior is going to follow it up. There has been a time, as emerged not least during the previous interpellation debate, where I had the feeling that the Minister for the Interior kept things from him. I think it is absolutely necessary to ask the police authorities how they implement their procedures, how they solve the core tasks and what results they get. Of course, when we are out in the Police Authority and meet police officers in different contexts, we should ask relevant questions. Sometimes forms are difficult, you think you don't have the stuff you need or something else is the excuse for not doing what needs to be done. Then it might be good to follow up on what is needed. We need to get routine on topsa and to get it into the Swedish DNA register and also respond to hits. We're all aware that not every date means we have an perpetrator. But it's indecent when you don't use the opportunity. I am also pleased and pleased that the Minister for the Interior is taking this up with fingerprints. It's the same misery here. It is an old technique that has been around for a very long time and is genuinely good. It makes no sense to me that the police have forgotten how to handle it. It is not very technically difficult. I won't try to describe how it's done, but I even did it myself. Then the examination is more difficult. But with computer technology and other things today, things are much faster. And there's shoe tracks and footprints. Such basic activities in the area of crime scene investigation are A and O in order to obtain a basis in criminal investigations and be able to clear up crimes. It is important to follow up on this too. It is excellent if the police leadership receives signals from the government that it expects you to have clear regulations and clear rules on how to use the basic knowledge. It's what I understand the basic course in police training to be able to ensure different types of evidence when doing a crime scene investigation. It must not be the case that you slip past it. Then that's why we don't get a verdict in court. It's very serious. Today we have problems with a great many crimes because crime is moving across borders and it is happening very quickly. Then this kind of proof-taking and handling is central for it to work. It was good news that the Minister for the Interior is now at national level for this dialogue, I assume, and that it will also be pointed out in various contexts. The Committee on Justice is making its travels and will now visit every police region. I can assure you that this is a question we will be asking: how are we working to ensure that the police in each region are doing the basic course on law enforcement? It is absolutely essential that we do not allow the police organisation to blame changes in its own organisation for shortcomings in the core task of the Swedish police. That's a good news we're getting here today. I will follow it up in a year's time and ensure that it has produced some results. I believe that using modern DNA technology, more crimes affecting people in their daily lives could be cleared out.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-77	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to see cross-border agreement. It is very good that the Committee on Justice is asking the same questions as I am. Of course, it strengthens the power of the message. If I were to tip off a question to ask that out in the police regions, which are not really related to this, it is: in what way is the work against violence against women and rape organised here, and how is it different from other serious violent crime? We have seen that, unfortunately, there is quite a difference in how to investigate murder and how to investigate serious rapes. That is another thing that I always ask when I am out, which I would be happy if members of the Committee on Justice could also ask a question about. While we have speaking time over, I would like to mention one thing that the government has done that has gone a little under the radar but which I believe will be effective in terms of burglary, burglary tours and cross-border crime. This is the demand for ID checks in ferry traffic introduced by the government. In the past, it has been the case that there have been calls for passenger lists on the shipping companies but not for identity checks. As a result, we have had passenger lists from Lithuania with Knatte, Fnatte and Natte instead of the real names. With identity requirements and passenger lists, the police have a completely different opportunity to check who enters and exits Sweden. Same thing for customs. They can also hit vehicles and people and see if they are wanted a, have the right to enter the country etc. In this way I think the police can make life much more difficult for the burglary and theft leagues that come from other countries and want to try their luck in Sweden. We must go further and see what we can do to further hinder the export of goods if we manage to get in some gang that has stolen something so that we can stop them before they can leave the country with the car, tractor, diesel or whatever it is. Here, too, I think we have a significant consensus between the parties in the Swedish Parliament.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-82	Mr President, I would like to There is a consensus that this is a good technology and that there is much that needs to be done. There are new opportunities to prevent this travelling crime. What is, of course, the task of the opposition is to ensure that the government does what it can to ensure that this is also used. We can have all the clever systems, but if our cops don't take DNA and fingerprints and see if there's shoe tracks and there's not much workshop. That's a problem. I share the view that sexual crimes are extremely central and that there is much to ask about them. Let me just say that even here DNA is incredibly central. It was one of the things that changed because Dagens Nyheter picked up the shortcomings in routines that the police have. There was a rape case where there was a DNA date, and nothing had been done to follow it up. Now, as far as I understand, the case in the judicial system is dealt with in an orderly manner again because it woke up and lifted the archive when it was realised that this was being noticed. So DNA also applies to sexual crimes. It is incredibly central to clearing up certain sexual crimes to have this kind of evidence. We have seen in the courts that the bar has been raised many times and that this kind of technical evidence is often required to obtain a conviction. Then we're back to the routine of taking DNA, running their records and reacting to hits being A and O. I will follow this up closely and see how the new Police Authority is introducing these new procedures and following them up and what results it gives. We need to increase the clearance of crime in all kinds of cases.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-86	Mr President, I would like to I can only welcome the fact that the opposition takes its role seriously. I believe that an active opposition that questions and lies on leads the government to do a better job. I hope that at some point in the summer or after the summer we can have a new interpellation debate and that I will not be obliged to answer it, but that the measures taken have also led to an increased impact.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-88	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me if I share the history of the Swedish Armed Forces Air School (Aviation) which Henriksson renders in the interpellation. Furthermore, Stig Henriksson has asked me if there are any ex post analyses to find out the reasons for this type of seemingly irrational and short-term decision and whether it is done aftercalculations to calculate costs against planned savings or efficiency increase. He has also asked me what conclusions have been drawn from such experiences and how it is ensured that the conclusions are applied in future work on change. Regarding the example of the Swedish Armed Forces Air School, I essentially share Stig Henriksson's history description. I note that several governments are responsible for the various decisions that have been made regarding the Swedish Armed Forces Air School over the years. Since the Swedish Armed Forces' founding organisation is bound by parliament, several different parliamentary majorities also share this responsibility. However, seeking the blame for these decisions is hardly constructive at the present time. For this reason, I have also not seen it as fruitful or necessary to seek ex post cost estimates or otherwise analyse all the decisions taken by previous governments. Instead, this government has chosen to focus, with broad political support, on increasing the operational capacity of our armed forces and ensuring the collective capability of total defence. To this end, defence appropriations have been increased. Of course, we are trying to avoid repeating past mistakes. An important lesson is to start from a realistic picture of the current situation both in terms of the situation in the Armed Forces and in terms of security policy developments. No major changes have been made since the 2004 defence decision. No new basic organisational changes are planned today. The Government's ambition is to ensure that strategic and sustainable political decisions are made through a clear priority of the war ability of the armed forces and the overall operational capacity. Another lesson is to focus on operational capabilities in the near future and not to lose us in a planning that is decades ahead. Of course, we often have to make decisions that follow us many years ahead, but we must not build these decisions solely on rationality that arises in the distant future. Examples of this may be cost savings achieved only in the long term. The situation in the world around us is uncertain and can change rapidly. It is therefore crucial to focus on increasing the operational capability of military units over the next five years and ensuring the combined capability of the Swedish total defence.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-93	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. I have asked a few questions with the tours around Flygskolan as an example. It is therefore a business that for a couple of years and at great costs was moved from Ljungbyhed to Ängelholm to Uppsala to land in Linköping, if the term is allowed. With Flygskolan as an example, I have asked five questions. Does the Secretary of Defense, in essence, share the history description? I'm glad the Secretary of Defense is doing that. My second question is this: are there any subsequent analyses being carried out to find out the reasons for these seemingly irrational and short-term decisions? As far as I understand it, the answer to this question is a no. I'm sorry about that. Are any post-calculations made to calculate whether the outcome was intended in terms of savings or efficiency increases? There, too, the answer is no. So when you ask the question that I have about what conclusions you draw, the crux of the matter is that if you answer 'no' to the question of analyses or post-calculations, it is not easy to draw lessons from what you have done. This applies whether it is about other governments or parliamentary majorities, because what is done is done. Then, of course, the fifth question also falls: how do we ensure that the conclusions are applied in future work on change? Changes of various kinds I think we're all going to have to live with. One can speculate a little about what this could be due to. As a relative newcomer in this industry, I think it would be interesting to know whether this is primarily the result of political detail management seasoned with defence irrelevant regional policy considerations. Is that the basis for this kind of chain of decision-making? Or is it the authority itself that is valiant and indecisive and reacts in this way? Or is it perhaps hard to avoid such things in a time of rapid and rapid successive changes and contractions? If so, it may not be a major mistake. However, this is not – I would like to emphasise – an attempt to find someone to blame, the scapegoat. It is a question of analysing in order to avoid some traps in the future and thus manage the task better the next time that will always come. Doesn't the Secretary of Defense think this could be valuable?
i-f76804f5e6e13918-103	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Armed Forces and what happens when it comes to different types of change work are also reviewed through the Swedish National Audit Office. There are always different types of reports. These are reports on which the committee has to be informed. On this basis, different actions can be taken in different contexts. When I was chairman of the committee, I know that on a number of occasions, on the basis of accounts that came through the audit procedure, I initiated discussions with the government. It was then perhaps about more topical things than the whole history of Flygskolan's activities, which I think today totals about 100 years. I understand that Stig Henriksson does not seek guilt or scapegoats. For the government's policy and for me as defence minister, this first year has been marked to a very large extent by the question of how we should look at life ahead – how are we moving forward? Based on recent experiences and debates on reorganisation, bureaucracy and various types of administrative problems within the Swedish Armed Forces, in the agreement we have now made widely between the parties, we have chosen to concentrate on one main task, namely how we increase operational military capabilities. How do we raise that level given the world situation? The Riksdag has also made possible an expanded financial framework that involves investments in a wide range of weapons systems. So the priority has been on the future and perhaps less on giving force to what has been. I believe that in any given situation, if you are going to make different types of reorganisations in the future within the Swedish Armed Forces, you start at the point where we are today. In any such given situation, there may be reason to also look at how history has been in the context and from that draw conclusions. The fact that we from the Ministry are not doing any total analysis of, for example, Flygskolan, because I notice that Stig Henriksson says that it is an example, does not mean that any historical experience and views can not be taken into account in any change work.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-108	Mr President, I would like to I find it interesting that the Minister for Defence mentions the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office, for I too have taken note of a number of them. It states somewhere that the Swedish Armed Forces are the most detailed authority that exists according to their assessment. I think that in itself can sometimes explain some of the strange decisions that are made in my opinion. But as I said, there may be many other reasons, and I think it is important to look at these things in order to move forward. I understand very well that there is a great deal to do with the new defence-oriented decision that has been taken. I think it was an old ÖB, Owe Wiktorin, who once put it this way: I'm not looking in the rear-view mirror, because I'm not going that way anyway. It sounds good to say, but at the same time you risk perhaps not learning from what has happened. Not least in a period when resources are being invested, my experience is that those activities that are heavily held financially and may have to cut down are spending much more effort trying to find places where it hurts the least. In those activities where more resources are available, there is a greater risk of not always making the wisest decisions. I understand the defense minister's focus on looking ahead because there is a lot to do. I have great respect for this, but I think again that it is from history that we can learn. The future, that's forecasts.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-114	Mr President, I would like to In Sälen I brought up some of what Stig Henriksson talked about, but in a different way. I said in my speech at the People's and Defence Conference that an important experience for future defence policy could be to take on board the fact that it is fast to collapse, but it takes a long time to build up. It is a general experience that one may have to do. The Swedish Armed Forces have changed tremendously since the Cold War, and that may have been reasonable and right in many respects. But it is also the case that many abilities have become very narrow, and as we begin to look at the business and have to invest in the future, we see how long a recovery takes. It's kind of not done overnight. It's big money, it's training to be carried out and it's exercise activities that are to be carried out time and again to make it work. More of a fundamental stability in the long-term planning of the Swedish Armed Forces, I think, is therefore a very important experience that one should draw from and that future decision-makers and defence policies should perhaps have with them. This is about what looks good in terms of security policy one year can be very dark next year, and these changes can go very fast. I also think, like Stig Henriksson, that it may be interesting to discuss the rearview mirror from time to time, especially when making a concrete change in a specific area. But it may also be wise to do so in general when discussing the future of the armed forces. However, today I am not prepared to take any initiatives for specific analyses that are called for in the interpellation. As regards the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office, they have shown many different things over the years. It is systems that have become more expensive than it is intended, and it is deliveries that have not fallen in when they should. It is calculations of the conditions for change that have shown that they do not keep up with reality. There is, of course, a lot of experience that is documented and that can be taken into future decision-making processes. Then it is clear that there is always a balance between what is the general goal management of a business and what is detailed management. But when it comes to, for example, the investments to be made in various systems within the Swedish Armed Forces, especially on the armaments side, they are linked to the provision of resources, which in turn is directly linked to parliamentary decisions. This is a type of decision-making process that is very difficult to get away with if we are to have some kind of political hold on the business. This applies in a similar way to the basic human resources which, regardless of how we twist and turn it around, becomes a political responsibility when we see that the full-time soldiers drop out prematurely and we find it difficult to recruit part-time workers. Then we politicians cannot just say that the Armed Forces must sort it out. We also need to look at the personnel supply as a whole, and we are now doing so through, among other things, an investigation to be presented in August.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-122	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I am very much looking forward to the results of this investigation, and I hope that we will come some way along the path that we have proposed from the Left Party to reintroduce or reactivate some form of military service. It's already under way. I read now that the unit I visited in Arvidsjaur last autumn has a litter that has moved in, and it will be interesting to see how it will work. Flygskolan is therefore an example, and I would like to stress that it is not, of course, about re-establishing Flygskolan in Ljungbyhed with its century-old ancestry, but more about being able to see how such a decision works. As I said, I have different theories. Is that the detail control? Is it the rush that becomes when several decisions are taken at very short notice? Is it the authority itself that is doing it a little bad? Or is it regional political struggles that are decided in this way? Then I fully agree with the Minister for Defence when it comes to the speech in Sälen that it is easy to tear down and difficult to build up. I think it was someone who put it so that it's pretty easy to make fish soup out of an aquarium, but it's very hard to go the other way.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-125	Mr President, I would like to I think we have dealt with this matter in quite a number of different dimensions. We have noted that the Swedish National Audit Office has a lot of material in various areas that both committee politicians and I as ministers should include in the assessments. We have also talked about how to think about the situation in general: to try to build a long-term stability and not have a sharp throw in the management of the Swedish Armed Forces' organisation and that we must build on a situational picture that is perceived as realistic and in line with the time we are living in. On this basis, the government has prioritised that it is the operational capability of the military units that is to be ensured and that it is about ensuring the overall capability of the total defence where we have now started a work. Thank you for the debate.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-128	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me if I and the government are prepared to contribute to a Swedish-Finnish Defence Federation that is given a statute through a previous referendum. Let me begin by emphasising that security is built in solidarity with others. Sweden has both the opportunity and responsibility to influence the development of the Baltic Sea region. Through the development and deepening of bi- and multilateral defence cooperation, Sweden is helping to strengthen security in our region. It creates predictability, promotes peaceful development and raises the threshold for military incidents and conflicts. Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation is extensive and a high priority for the government. Sweden and Finland have a similar security policy starting point, and cooperation between the countries is already extensive today. The cooperation strengthens national capabilities in each country and creates greater security in the neighbourhood. We have a long tradition of dealing jointly with challenges. The government's assessment is that further deepening bilateral defence cooperation is of particular importance and has become even more important in the light of developments in our neighbourhood. The armed forces have jointly investigated opportunities for enhanced cooperation in all branches of defence, secure communication and joint units. In addition, exchanges of officials between departments have started. The defence cooperation between Finland and Sweden also includes operational planning and preparation for the joint use of civilian and military resources beyond peace-time conditions. Examples of this may be the affirmation of the territorial integrity of each country or the exercise of the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the UN Charter. Such planning is complementary to, but distinct from, the national planning of each country. As Allan Widman points out, cooperation is an opportunity for joint action, but not a commitment. Provided that the necessary political decisions are taken, the countries can act together. By creating freedom of action to act jointly, the threshold for incidents and attacks is raised, which in turn contributes to greater stability. In order to review the conditions for closer cooperation, the Government has set up an investigation with the task of analysing the conditions according to the government form for Sweden to, provided necessary political decisions are made, act jointly with another state with military resources. The assignment shall be presented on 30 September 2016. It is worth emphasising in this context that Finnish security and defence policy is also based on military alliance freedom. The forms of defence cooperation are not only a Swedish matter but have been developed together with Finland. The Government does not intend to change the Swedish security policy line and considers that there is no need to hold a referendum on a Swedish-Finnish Defence Association.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-134	Mr President, I would like to I have said at some point before that Sweden is in a sort of no man's country in terms of security policy. On the one hand, there is a much deeper partnership with NATO, which now means that flying radar stations, known as Awacs, operate more or less regularly in Swedish airspace. During the spring, Mr President, the Parliament will take a position on a host country agreement, which provides Sweden with the opportunity to both provide assistance to and receive assistance from other NATO countries. On the other hand, there is a government that rejects any idea of membership of NATO. This has led Sweden today to assert military freedom of alliance that lacks confidence in the eyes of the outside world. At the same time, Sweden is also not covered by NATO's collective security. To this remarkable security policy situation for a country should also be added the unilateral declaration of solidarity that Sweden has made against parts of the world, which in some places has had some reactions and in other places no reactions at all. There are also a large number of bilateral cooperations. This autumn has been intense for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. He has deepened bilateral cooperation with the US, with Poland and last week with Denmark. On top of this, the special importance of cooperation between Sweden and Finland is also to be added. Mr President, I would like to I am the first to emphasise the importance and importance of a common defence with Finland. My uncle, godfather and name was one of the 8,000 Swedish volunteer soldiers who participated in Finland's war against the Soviet Union during the Finnish Winter War. That is enough, Mr President, with a look at the map to see the geostrategic benefits that a Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation would have. At the same time, however, it is a paradox that the government is constantly repeating, as the Minister for Defence has just done, that Sweden's military freedom of alliance remains intact, while at the same time exploring the possibilities of having a common defence with Finland according to the form of government. Now the Minister for Defence is clarifying himself by saying that it is a possible defence alliance, but it should not be binding. It is my belief that such a defensive alliance, if you can call it that, will not impress our neighbour country. Nor do I believe that this is something in which Finland wants to invest seriously. If cooperation is to have depth and significance, one must know in advance that this also applies in the event of war. Sweden is a small lonely country, and we urgently need firm relations in our security policy. As far as I can judge, the government is investing in a large number of resolving such relations. When our solidarity appears to be widespread and easy to buy, the specific importance of Sweden's security policy becomes ever less important. I would also like to say that, in the long term, it is damaging to our reputation, Mr President.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-142	Mr President, I would like to In the debate article signed by Stefan Löfven and Juha Sipilä, the Finnish and Swedish prime ministers, they stressed their rejection of NATO membership. Instead, they emphasise Finnish-Swedish defence cooperation, which I think the Minister for Defence can stretch out for having developed so quickly and so much. They stress that freedom of alliance serves the countries well, etcetera. It is also commented on in the Hufvudstadsbladet in Finland. What does this mean? This means that the Alliance can actually close down during its term of office. I think everyone agrees that a Swedish NATO membership requires Sweden and Finland to keep pace. It has now been announced that this is not the case. In addition, the Center Party has conditional its support for a Swedish NATO membership by moving in line with Finland. From this point of view, perhaps we could engage in more constructive debates than debating Swedish NATO membership.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-144	Mr President, I would like to The investigation is about clarifying how far bilateral cooperation can develop under existing constitutional conditions. The purpose of the investigation is to analyse the conditions for Sweden to act together with another state to face an attack on one of the states and to prevent violations of the respective state territory. It is a question of analysing in depth how far we can go with current legislation. That's the purpose of the investigation. The background is one: cooperation with Finland. There is no other background to this investigation. So we should not draw any further conclusions from the matter. With regard to our security policy doctrine and position, of course, I have a completely different view and picture than Mr Widman. I see in Finland a great satisfaction that we do what we do together – that we have extensive cooperation on the army side, especially in northern Sweden and northern Finland, that we practice 40 times a year together with Norway in cross border training on the airside, that we build a joint marine unit and that we also plan for scenarios beyond peacetime conditions. This, as I say, is not a therapeutic activity for its own sake. However, on the basis that both our countries are militaryly non-aligned, we leave open to decide whether we use this type of opportunity in a possible crisis or war situation until we are there. If so, everything is prepared. Our aim, both Swedish and Finnish, is to stabilise our part of Europe and thus contribute to the absence of this type of crisis situation. I think that we rarely discuss the importance of things not happening and how we prevent, more than when it is concentrated on the acute crisis stage. So we do a lot of things. The atmosphere in this cooperation is very good and constructive at all political levels – at the presidential and prime minister level and at the level of defence ministers, where we have an excellent relationship. The Swedish Armed Forces have made a real effort to make this a good thing. I believe that this has also been noted in a positive way in the outside world. I have had several arguments about this with different representatives of different countries, and I understand that they think this is a good development. What I am doing with regard to bilateral cooperation is basically what is in the orientation bill and what the Committee on Defence previously agreed on, which was that we should develop this type of cooperation, so I actually believe that the government has a broad mandate from the Riksdag to be implemented. If it were insignificant, these agreements would not be concluded, and the interest would not be so constructive and positive. I met with the Danish Minister for Defence yesterday, and we signed the agreement which is now up to date and which Mr Widman mentioned. I experienced a very positive attitude from the Danish side. In my next speech, I will develop my view of the freedom of military alliance. But we are doing what Parliament has ordered.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-154	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Defence could also have pointed out that my party, the Liberals, was not part of the security agreement that has led to Parliament's ordering of various bilateral cooperations. I appreciate Stig Henriksson getting into the debate. He does so with the same constructive objectivity that the government usually discusses NATO membership with in this country. He notes that the Alliance can close, because it will be nothing. That is an extremely heavy objective argument, Mr President, but it will not deter me from continuing my crusade on this issue. Yes, the Minister of Defence mentions the directives for the so-called Swedish-Finnish investigation, which is actually called Prerequisites according to the government form for enhanced defence cooperation. It states in the directives that it is necessary to analyse the conditions under the government form for Sweden, provided that necessary political decisions are taken, to act with military resources with other states in order to face an armed attack on one of the states and to prevent violations of one of the states' territory in peace and during war between foreign states. In the light of these words, however, I would like to put the question clearly to the Minister for Defence: is it the case that this is a good thing to be applied to a Swedish-Finnish cooperation, or is it possible that Sweden can combine its security policy in other ways, for example with other states or with other international organisations, with the same investigative report? I also note, Mr President, that Paragraph 127 of the Finnish Constitution states in the first paragraph that every Finnish citizen is obliged to participate in the defence of the country. It is a very beautiful line of text, I think, which I would have liked to have seen in a Swedish government as well. My question in the light of this quote is whether Peter Hultqvist is under-informed about whether Finland has also set up an investigation that looks at the constitutionality of a possible Swedish-Finnish conditional defence alliance or whether it is only Sweden that has taken such an initiative. If only Sweden has done this, does the Minister mean that he has guarantees that this cooperation, as it develops, will be reciprocal, that is to say that there is a balance, that we are equally willing to go as far as it does? Or is it the case that Sweden is acting in advance here? And if in the end Finland is not interested in a conditional defence alliance, is the Swedish government prepared to unilaterally proclaim a Swedish-Finnish defence alliance?
i-f76804f5e6e13918-161	Mr President, I would like to I think Allan Widman knows that there are a few more arguments against NATO membership. I shall draw them very rapsodically so that they are at least mentioned in this pulpit. NATO membership would increase the level of tension in the Baltic Sea region. This does not benefit Swedish security. NATO membership would help Putin and his hard-pressed authoritarian regime to further proclaim that they are encircled by external enemies. We would join a de facto nuclear alliance with all the risks involved. It would be even more difficult for us to pursue an independent foreign policy. We would be brothers in arms with a country that is bombing its own population, namely Turkey. These are the reasons for the matter. Then you can discuss tact and order. I have noted that the Alliance repeatedly calls for an investigation into NATO and wonders why it is so dangerous to conduct an investigation. It is the same alliance that together with SD is taking a committee initiative to ban an investigation into Bromma airport. The logic is not quite clear, I think. If I understand Allan Widman correctly, he believes that, regardless of the fact that the Finnish Government has now rejected the idea of NATO membership during this parliamentary term, the Alliance wants Sweden to apply unilaterally for membership of NATO. Is it really reasonable to do that? That's my question to Allan Widman.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-169	Mr President, I would like to Of course, all analyses in the general sense are applicable to different nations in terms of constitutional conditions. But what we have ordered is not a constitutional change, but we have commissioned an investigation to clarify how far bilateral cooperation can develop under existing constitutional conditions. That's what we've done. The purpose and background of the whole thing, even if one can deal with these things in a theoretical sense, is therefore Finland. It is Finland that has caused us to carry out this analysis. There is no other country that we have identified as clearly as partners when it comes to going far. I think that Widman complicates the situation with Finland when he asks whether we should act in advance and whether it is conditional here or there. We're just going along with each other. The mood is such, and the cooperation takes place on the basis of two parties who always agree and decide how we move forward the positions and have a common desire to do so. I don't experience any dissonance or strangeness or any hassle. I find satisfaction on both sides in this regard. Somehow I feel that Widman makes it more complicated than it really is. With regard to military alliance freedom, I have no comment on the fact that the Baltic countries belong to NATO. It's an insurance guarantee for them. Denmark and Poland have made their choices. Norway has made a natural choice. We lie where we lie geographically, and a Swedish action on this issue also affects Finland, of course. Finland believes that it is important for all issues of cooperation that we go along with each other. There we have agreed on the military freedom of alliance as a platform. The prime ministers have indicated what the position is. We have agreed on how to handle HNS, i.e. host nation support agreement. We have agreed on bilateral cooperation. We agree that, as countries, we basically have a defensive agenda. We do not want to act in such a way that it is perceived as something other than that we want to safeguard our sovereignty and that we want to contribute to stability in our part of Europe. But neither country is naive either, but we see what is happening in Russia. We have been very clear about that. Early in my term of chairmanship of the committee, I pointed out the problems with Russia, which the then government had problems taking on board. In the light of Swedish history, in the light of the balance we took during the Cold War and in view of the current situation and our geographical situation, it is important that our basic security policy doctrine is established, but it is also important that we deepen all our collaborations and that we have transparency in it. It's not a secret. The openness of these issues is also a way of giving signals to the outside world. In addition, we create through our contacts and through what we do in practice a situation in which we have freedom of action to act together in different roles if the worst happens in the form of a crisis. Unfortunately, I believe that the situation is such that if something happens in our part of Europe, it will affect all the countries in our area. The wisest thing, therefore, is to maintain the freedom of alliance, to build firm ties with Finland, to deepen bilateral relations, to build the transatlantic link and to pursue the decision of direction.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-179	Mr President, I would like to Now I believe that the Minister for Defence is dealing with something very important, namely the importance of transparency in the security policy commitments that are being made as a country, at least if the country is a democracy. I agree with the Minister for Defence that it is essential if there is to be confidence in security policy relations. Then we cannot postpone important decisions on the future and make them conditional on the necessary political decisions being taken. Then we must make the commitments to the other country in full transparency and ensure that they receive the appropriate political blessing. Hence, Mr President, my question, that is, whether the Minister for Defence was prepared to submit a Swedish-Finnish Defence Association to the people's decision. If the Minister of Defence meant Finland, one must ask why he did not write Finland in the directives for the investigation. Why did he express himself in terms of third countries and other countries? I put a very direct question to the Minister for Defence, Mr President, about reciprocity. Is it the case that Finland has a corresponding investigation in progress that looks at Finland's possibilities, given its constitution, to enter into a conditional defence alliance with Sweden? To Stig Henriksson I would say: Yes, I think the Left Party wants Turkey to join the European Union, but they never mention that Turkey is bombing its own population. At the weekend we heard the President of Latvia say that Swedish NATO membership will not lead to increased tensions around the Baltic Sea, but rather to order and order.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-184	Mr President, I would like to We have been clear about the agreements concluded between Sweden and Finland. That is not what we have publicly presented and which we are working on, which is now being investigated. In terms of exercise activities, secure communication and other things, agreements have been concluded without the need to do this type of investigation. However, the investigation we are now conducting looks at how far we can go in a broader perspective. This is what the investigation is about, not about being able to live up to what we already agree on and that both Finland and Sweden have presented. That's what I understand Widman calls a conditional defense alliance. Everything we presented publicly today and earlier, starting on 17 February last year, we stand for from both sides. So it's not news. As far as transparency is concerned, I do not believe that since the Second World War any government has been so open about defence cooperation with different countries as the present one. We have repeatedly presented what we are doing with regard to agreements. We've been talking about America. We have talked about the Baltic countries, Poland, Denmark, Finland. When we look at the eight years of the Alliance's government power, I cannot see that they had the same openness, the same drive and the same will to do so in practice. Maybe what was then was beneath the surface. We have made a real effort to be relevant, transparent and clear. Moreover, I think it is a rather general view that we have not swept anything under the carpet here, more than what must be secret. I know Widman also understands that a lot of things have to be secret.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-188	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me, based on the example of the Gothenburg garrison, if I, given that the example given is not considered an optimal organisation, believe that there is reason to initiate a broad review of the above exemplified management structures within the Swedish Armed Forces. Let me begin by stating that Parliament has decided on the organisational units that form the basic organisation of the Armed Forces and are listed in Appendix 1 to the Authority's instructions. In June 2015, the Riksdag decided on a new defence policy direction that includes the Armed Forces Organisation and associated military units, Home Guard units and depot units. How the Swedish Armed Forces otherwise choose to organise their work is a matter for the agency to decide for itself. The Swedish Armed Forces have in their choice of organisation to take into account the Authority Regulation, which states, among other things, that the Authority's management must ensure that the activities are carried out effectively and that the Authority makes good use of state funds. The Government decision from June 2015 that focuses the Swedish Armed Forces during the period 2016 to 2020 places clear demands on the Agency to increase the operational capability of the armed forces during the period and ensure the overall capability of the total defence. In order for the authority to be able to meet these requirements, of course, requirements are made for an appropriate organisation of the operations. This applies to both Gothenburg garrison and other parts of the agency. During the coming period, I will follow the Swedish Armed Forces' efforts to increase the capabilities of the armed forces. As regards the issue of the management structures within the Gothenburg garrison, this is a matter for the Swedish Armed Forces to deal with. The Swedish Armed Forces continuously analyse and evaluate their operations to ensure that they are carried out effectively. I do not currently see any need for the government to initiate such a review.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-193	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. My question emanated from the example of Gothenburg garrison, which in my opinion has a hugely divided structure with different units and units led from a large number of places in the country: Gothenburg, Berga, Livgardet, Karlskrona, Skövde, Örebro, Eskilstuna etc. For a number of years, operations within the Swedish Armed Forces have been relocated, restructured, closed down and sometimes moved back in a rather difficult-to-understand process. It can sometimes result in the organization becoming difficult to understand, illogical and hard to work after all this. The latter, in particular, is serious. My question is whether the Minister for Defence shares my view that this is not an optimal organisation and whether there is reason to make a slightly broader overview of the management structures of the Förvarsmakten. I broadly agree with the Minister for Defence's view that it is the Authority itself, the Swedish Armed Forces, that has to choose how to organise their work. Now this Parliament does not usually be foreign to go quite far in detailed control down at company level, but since in my opinion this is mainly evil, it is not something I want to recommend. I would like to stress that I have never asked the Minister for Defence to engage specifically in the Gothenburg garrison, but it was in my interpellation only an example of the state of affairs. There are some further examples to be taken. If Gothenburg garrison is not an odd example, but similar difficult-to-understand organisations exist in several parts of the country, perhaps it would be time for a more general review. Given the wave of withdrawals and successive retakes, it is probably not surprising if it gets a little muddy. Then it could possibly be appropriate to have a broader review with a focus on governance and efficiency, instead of living on with the stock-on-layer organizations that now exist in a number of places in the country. As the Minister for Defence says, it is extremely important that elected representatives should have some sort of control over the Swedish Armed Forces meeting the requirements of the Authority Regulation to ensure that the activities are carried out effectively and that the Agency makes good use of state funds. I have been thinking: Could not part of the problem be that the agency itself is responsible for how it should organise its work while the parliament determines in detail which organisational units should exist within the framework of the agency?
i-f76804f5e6e13918-199	Mr President, I would like to One can always wonder if an organization is optimal. One can surely also see from the outside that there are shortcomings. Views can be made on the effectiveness of both contexts. What we as a government are trying to do is in different ways to indicate that the Swedish Armed Forces should have a rationality in their organisation and make the best use of the money. The Swedish Armed Forces are today an organisation that has undergone many changes and rationalisations. This, with geographical locations, is certainly not a direct innovation in history. There have been decisions that have had a certain regional policy bearing in different contexts. Nor do I think it is easy to start asking ourselves from a rationality perspective whether to move a particular business to another place and move something else to a third place. Some of these minor changes are taking place continuously within the Swedish Armed Forces. I believe, however, that the places on which we are established form the basis to which we have to relate. It is important that we agree that it is the Swedish Armed Forces themselves that manages their organisation in this part and that the agency takes care of its own organisation. You have the decision in your hand. It is important that we agree on what this looks like at the bottom, so that we do not drift into a discussion where political representatives are beginning to take responsibility for government. I am always open to discussions and reflections on how to use the money better. This is also the ultimate task of the Heads of Government – the money should be spent as well as possible. Based on this, I see this type of discussion and example mostly as a contribution to the Swedish Armed Forces, which can include them in their future planning. I stressed in our previous interpellation debate that the government now has to concentrate its task on increasing military capabilities and pursuing the defence decision and ensuring its effectiveness. One should to a lesser extent concentrate on different types of organizational changes and reflections. There may be such a thing as that, but the main task is the military capability.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-205	Mr President, I would like to As the Secretary of Defense said in the previous interpellation debate, I look back. Maybe it's natural at my age. The Secretary of Defense, who is a young man, is looking more forward. That is also natural, and there is a lot to be done in that context. I fully agree that the Swedish Armed Forces have had a number of difficult years with large reductions that have come quite close. Of course, this has eventually led to some confusion in the organization. It is important to try to correct this. Surely that has not been made easier by what the Minister for Defence himself mentions about the fact that there has sometimes been a certain regional policy bearing on the decisions. Perhaps it is not the authority that has accounted for most of it, but perhaps there have been interests from a political point of view as well. You can always discuss how organisations should be governed. An organisation that depends heavily on the interests, commitment and creativity of the staff is often best managed by having a joint manager geographically appointed, in this case a garrison manager, while some other activities may be best led by specialists from all kinds of different directions. But this is mostly a general idea. I do not have much to add to this. I thank you for your answer and will try to follow the questions of organisation. The foundation of the business is that you have a good and relevant organisation.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-210	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I must thank Stig Henriksson for the epithet. At the age of 57, getting that kind of compliments is something that makes you stretch. I think that Stig Henriksson also shows some vitality in this context, so I'll have to counter with that. As far as investigations and reviews are concerned, I can mention that we now have an investigation looking at how the supply of equipment and logistics should be organised on the basis of the requirements set out in the specialisation proposal regarding higher operational capabilities in the armed forces. That investigation shall present its report in December 2016. This is an important issue, and the result of it can affect the organisation of operations in different garrison varieties. There we have an example of how we currently work, in addition to our main priority to increase the operational capability of the military units through the completion of the specialization decision. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for the debate and wish you a pleasant weekend.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-213	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Fölster has asked me whether I intend to simplify the procedure for the placement of children in family homes and whether I intend to introduce reliefs in the requirements for training for family homes. Sofia Fölster has also asked me what additional regulations and rules I plan to simplify in order to facilitate social services in the current emergency situation. The situation in the social services of municipalities is strained and sometimes under pressure in some areas. This applies, for example, to the placement of unaccompanied minors. First of all, I would like to point out that unaccompanied minors are subject to the same rules as those applicable to children and young people in need of protection or support under the Social Services Act. In order to review the simplifications and facilitations that can and should be made, a legal analysis of, among other things, the Social Services Act within the Government Office is ongoing. In addition, the Government has taken a large number of measures to improve social services conditions and support municipalities in the current refugee situation. Examples of this are the investment in staffing and competence in social care for children and young people, with SEK 250 million per year in 2016 – 2019 after agreement with the Left Party, and an additional SEK 9.8 billion in the amending budget that was submitted to the Riksdag on 12 November 2015 to municipalities and county councils to deal with the current refugee situation, which was also an agreement with the opposition, as well as a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare to establish a response function with the task of answering questions from, and providing support to, municipalities' social services. The current refugee situation has led to a rapid increase in the number of children in need of placement of social services and a need in municipalities for more flexible solutions. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has therefore been commissioned by the Government to review regulations and general guidelines on homes for care or housing, HVB, in an addition to the regulation letter for 2015. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has decided on 15 December 2015 on temporary derogations from the regulations for certain HVB. Exemptions may be made from the requirement to have staff on the premises of the establishment 24 hours a day, as those living in HVB do not always stay on the premises of the establishment. The rules also allow for exceptions to the requirement of higher education for the manager. The regulatory changes entered into force on 1 January 2016, i.e. recently, and are temporary during the ongoing review by the National Board of Health and Welfare of the HVB regulations as a whole. The work will be presented in full to the Government Office by 1 April 2016. In order to make it easier for municipalities to recruit and secure access to, among other things, family homes, the Government has also given the National Board of Health and Welfare a commission on nationally coordinated information activities on family homes and more for children and young people. With regard to the issue of training for new family homes, I believe it is important that emergency and family homes be given the opportunity to provide the training they need to receive a child. The Social Services Act regulates the obligation of the Social Welfare Board to provide the necessary training for those whom the Board intends to employ for the care of children in family homes or on-call homes. However, there is a need to adapt the educational material to family home parents developed by the National Board of Health and Welfare, based on current circumstances and needs. The Government therefore decided yesterday on a commission to the National Board of Health and Welfare, which includes, among other things, the development of adapted educational material for emergency and family homes that receive an unaccompanied minor. The overall assignment to the National Board of Health and Welfare also means an in-depth analysis of the impact on social services due to the current refugee situation and the increase in unaccompanied minors. The National Board of Health and Welfare shall also, in relevant parts, revise the knowledge support for the work of social services with unaccompanied children and young people, in order to facilitate and support social services. Finally, social care for children and young people is, and has been, a very priority for me since I took office. For me, as Minister for Children, it is important that the situation of children, in particular the protection and safety of children, be taken into account in all decisions relating to social care for children and young people.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-219	Mr President, I would like to According to the Swedish Immigration Service's figures for 2015, which are now completed, 35,369 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015. That's about five times as many as the previous year. Many of the children are young boys and girls whose upbringing is troubled. They carry memories of war and persecution. They often carry memories of a terrible journey across the Mediterranean. Many of them also bear memories of things a child should never have to experience, memories of losing a loved one, a parent or a sibling, or perhaps all of them. Although most of them, who are written a lot about in the media, are 16 to 17-year-old boys, they are still children with a great need for support and help from the adult world. Nowadays, we call the reception of refugees a refugee crisis. Why we now call it a crisis is particularly evident when we are talking about children. In a debate article a few weeks ago, the Ombudsman described the vulnerable situation of refugees. He also noted shortcomings in Sweden's reception of children. He testified about children who have been denied care and who have not been educated, about lack of outer clothing and shoes, about the lack of a good man or someone who can speak for the child, but also about insecurity, especially for young girls. I do not think it has escaped anyone's strain on social services right now. In several parts of the country, social services work around the clock to find and train family homes and on-call homes for children who have come here. Several municipalities have already notified themselves of lex Sarah because they will not be able to manage to care for children within the current structure and regulations. The situation is therefore very serious. That's why we call it a crisis. SKL visited the Social Affairs Committee a couple of weeks ago. Their description was that it is primarily the complicated rules and regulations that make the situation in the municipalities so strained. SKL presented a list of 47 reform proposals that the government should implement without delay. They argue that if these 47 proposals were implemented, the situation would be possible in the municipalities. The recruitment of family homes is one of the most important points, perhaps the most urgent. Today, families in many municipalities are in line to help children, but due to slow processes, there are far too few families who are ready today to care for the children who now need a family and a home. Family homes are a form of care that is particularly good for children who need stability and very close contact with adults while integrating them into a new society and culture. SKL proposes to the government that social services should be given the opportunity to make exceptions to the requirements for family home education, which today may take several months. The Government has responded by giving the National Board of Health and Welfare, as the Minister has just presented, the task of producing new information material specifically aimed at families caring for unaccompanied minors. However, another part of the proposal is that social services should be given increased powers to make individual trials of families in terms of how much training they actually need, so that those families who do not need as long education can become family homes more quickly. Then I have a question for the Minister: does the Government not think that, in the current emergency situation, it is reasonable to give the social secretary and social services greater powers to make the individual assessments?
i-f76804f5e6e13918-229	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Fölster, for your commitment to the issue! I have made a move in the Committee on Social Affairs and we have had different occasions during the autumn when we have talked about this. I am delighted by the interest and commitment, because it is a major issue for society. When the government took office, we took over a social child and youth care system that was already under strong pressure. There were a lot of structural problems and a lot of staff recruitment problems, and there were major concerns about maintaining good quality even then. I hope now – and that is what I intend to devote a large part of the spring to – that through commitment and leadership I can offer and also the alliances we can build, we can try to use the spotlight that now exists in social care for children and young people. After all, funds have been made available. It is about 1 billion that exists with the 2016 budget and future social care for children and young people, which we have allocated. But it is also about the means which I hope the municipalities will use, which came about through the agreement with the opposition on refugee reception. It is about trying to use it to deal with the emergency situation but also for long-term investments, because they are needed. I certainly hope so. You mentioned SKL. It is a very important player in this context. There are also trade unions. There are many scientists. There are many who in different ways are committed to this being a good thing. So does the Ombudsman for Children in a good way. We're talking about a lot of questions at the same time, but I'm trying to pick them off. True, many unaccompanied refugee children have arrived. The vast majority are boys. It is a question of having a gender perspective in this all the time, and we are trying to do so, not least in the mission we gave last night on an in-depth analysis of these very consequences. Many of the unaccompanied refugee children are older teenagers. They are children, but older children. Many of them – not all of them, but they have a right to their own assessment – will be able to be placed in assisted housing from 1 January onwards. It is another change that is very important. But the younger children need family homes just as you point out, Sofia Fölster. It is important that these children have the opportunity to have a good life at all. So it is not just a matter of receiving them but of caring for them. That is a strong ambition on my part. That is why we must ensure that the quality of this reception is also as good as possible in the case of family homes. I am absolutely prepared to create the conditions for the management to be as simple as possible, but not when it comes to the demands on how the children should have it when they come to a family. As the rules stand today, the Social Welfare Board will of course first conduct an investigation into the family home, and it is still very important that you have time to do so. Then care should be taken to ensure that the family that has been judged to be able to take on this is adequately educated. I think that the measures we have taken so far can make it easier for this to be done in an ever-better way. But I am very careful that family homes should be as good as possible, because these children must have a good future. They have a difficult history behind them, and it is our duty to take good care of them.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-240	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for this and for her commitment. I don't doubt the good intentions of the government for a second. On the other hand, I feel that the government does not have the courage to take decisive action, nor within the time needed. I think you need to think new and perhaps speed up some political processes. In its s where, among other things, the Government talks about the in-depth analysis that the Government took decisions on yesterday. Of course, analysis and follow-up are always good. But today it is enough to open a newspaper to see and get a sense of how social services are doing. 27 municipalities have notified themselves to Ivo. Ivo has warned of serious maladministration as the reception of unaccompanied minors is not legally secure. The Ombudsman for Children has pointed out a number of shortcomings in Sweden's reception of children. In a survey, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has found that social services in almost half of the country's municipalities are seriously affected or critically affected. We are constantly reading about the great shortage of staff in social services and how municipalities are forced to re-prioritise, and there is a risk of other cases being pushed away. These are just a few reasons why we no longer call it a challenge or a lack. These are some reasons why, as I said in my previous speech, we now call it a crisis. It is perhaps the greatest refugee crisis that we will experience in modern times, and it is far from over. Although analysis and in-depth evaluation are always good, we must not run the risk of ending up in further investigations that postpone action. It requires the government to act and take responsibility immediately. Although we politicians sometimes do not want to pretend that political processes can be speeded up, especially in a crisis situation that I think everyone knows and understands. I would therefore like to ask a few questions about this evaluation or analysis. When is it expected to be completed, and what further measures will the government take in the meantime, pending completion of the analysis by the National Board of Health and Welfare? Or is this a way of postponing action? The reason why I am asking this is that there are already clear proposals, particularly from the SKL. I also have another question that I did not have time to ask earlier, and it concerns family homes. That's what I wrote about in the interpellation. This is very important, and it does not appear in the Minister's reply. This is another one of the proposals that SKL has put forward for a simplified procedure. It is therefore both a matter of education and a simplified administration in order for social services to be able to produce family homes more quickly. You don't thumbs up on home visits, you don't thumbs up on aptitude tests, but you say that right now you have to be able to make exceptions because it's a crisis. The government has chosen to make temporary exceptions for HVB but not for family homes precisely in terms of processing. In the current crisis situation, I would like an answer to this too. Does the government not consider it reasonable to simplify the procedure for handling the current crisis?
i-f76804f5e6e13918-251	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Sofia Fölster, I think it is very important to cooperate on this area because it is such a fundamental function of society. But I do want to remind you of the story. We took over a social child and youth care service that was already in crisis. It was already a neglected business that your government left behind, Sofia Fölster. I'm not the only one who says so. There are many reports and evidence that this was the case. There is from the academy, from SSR, from Vision and also from SKL, which, moreover, as an employer also has a responsibility here. They already had views on the situation in social services. Nevertheless, for this very reason we have worked very hard on this issue. We have, among other things, set aside EUR 1 billion from this year onwards and four years ahead to strengthen the capacity and basic work of social care for children and young people. I think this is quite important to bear in mind. Since we took office, but above all in the autumn, we have made a number of decisions. There are so many of them that you can look at them on a website that we have so that you can follow all the decisions that we have made in the government during the autumn because we have really prioritised this. I must admit that this is the first time that we have been accused of things taking time. If there's any area we've been working incredibly hard on, it's this. I do not, therefore, take this criticism to heart. We have worked incredibly fast and evasively and constantly trying to keep track of the quality for the children not getting worse. It is because the studies we have on unaccompanied refugee children and how they are doing for natural reasons are done on far fewer children. Hundreds of children have been studied in these studies. Then you have been able to see that things are going pretty well for these children. They are very motivated, they want to read and they want to create a new future. It's about boys. I'm afraid that doesn't apply to girls. It's something to keep an eye on. Girls disappear from studies and labour force participation to a much greater extent than other girls with refugee backgrounds. The boys are doing better. I want to be able to give these children a good life in Sweden. It is therefore important to keep the balance between quality and speed. I believe that we have done so. We've made a lot of decisions. I will list some again, because in your post it seems that we have not done so. As I said, 1 billion goes to social care for children and young people with the 2016 budget. There are new provisions on assisted housing that will suit many of the older unaccompanied refugee children. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with supporting the recruitment of family homes. The task has been assigned to educational material and to facilitate education to family homes in the first place. As you have pointed out, and as I have said, yesterday we decided on an in-depth consistency of social services. It is in order to further ensure quality, for example that there are no displacement effects on other children seeking support from the social services. It's just as important to me. We have decided on more flexibility and have asked the National Board of Health and Welfare to make proposals for flexible itte in rules regarding HVB. We have funds from our common agreement on refugee policy, we have commissioned Sis to find 1 000 state places and so on. We have been extremely active here, and this also applies to trying to find family homes. But social services have a huge mission, and we will have to continue working on this year and beyond. But it's something that I'm prioritising and that I'm constantly working on.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-262	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that it is about a year and a half since the government took office. It is possible for a few months to blame the old government, but then you have to take responsibility for what you have done. There we are. We are in the greatest refugee crisis we are likely to experience in modern times. Weekly, if not daily, we read about how pressured social services are and how all the shortcomings that primarily affect children and young people mark their lives for a long time to come. Many of the measures listed by the Minister are, in fact, agreed. Supported housing was something the previous government initiated, and the supplementary budget we agree on. More measures also come from the list SKL has presented. There are 47 reform proposals that urgently need to be implemented in order for the municipalities to have a chance of coping with the current situation at all. That is why I believe that more needs to be done, because although some of the proposals on the long list have been implemented, there are many proposals which are not and which are deemed absolutely necessary for the municipalities to cope with the situation. I have no doubt about the Minister's intention on this issue, nor are there huge ideological dividing lines in this particular area between our two parties. However, I believe that more needs to be done and that more needs to be done quickly. We need to have a common understanding that this is a crisis at the moment. I would like to remind the government once again that this is not just any item on the agenda. This is not just any problem or challenge, but it is a crisis that will affect these children's ability to create a life and a future in Sweden in the future. I therefore look forward to more proposals, in addition to those which have come, which we can deal with in the Committee on Social Affairs. Many, many more measures are needed, because what has been presented so far is not enough.
i-f76804f5e6e13918-267	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Sofia Fölster! I hope we have more debates on this, because we simply need to take joint responsibility. You can rest assured that I will continue to make many decisions on this. I agree that more needs to be done. SKL's list is at the Government Office, and it's being grazed off. We will come back to what proposals we can work together on or satisfy. As I said, this is extremely important to me. The reason why unaccompanied refugee children are taken care of in social services is simply to treat all children equally, and I would therefore like to be careful that the quality that exists is maintained – while we need to have a realistic view of what the situation is. I have been trying to achieve this all along, and I will continue to do so. The government has really taken on this issue. When it comes to the situation in social services one or a year and a half ago, there are plenty of reports about how it was already then that I can recommend reading. That means we started from a situation that wasn't the best. However, as I said, I hope that next time we will not talk about it, but I hope that we will talk about how, with shared ambitions and leadership, we can turn the spotlight that currently – due to the crisis – exists in social care for children and young people into an opportunity. We know, for example, through the national coordinator who is present in this area and who has made time measurements, that an average social secretary meets the child's work for 15 minutes on a normal day in his/her working life. The rest of the time is about documentation and investigations. It's very necessary – legal certainty is important – but children need to be more focused at all. I hope that we can have a discussion at all and a regulatory framework that really strengthens it, so that the reality will be good for these children.
