i-ee7e500e256a291b-1	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark has asked the Prime Minister what reasons were to refrain from signing a letter concerning Nord Stream 2 to the President of the European Commission and why no formal preparation with the relevant departments was made and why no attempt at revised wording was made. Mr Wallmark has also asked what is being done to get the question on the table of the European Commission. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Furthermore, Mikael Oscarsson has asked me what Sweden is doing to act on the basis of safety and environmental policy interests in order to work within the EU to ensure that the new gas pipeline is not built, why Sweden did not sign the protest letter to the Commission and how the government cooperates with Region Gotland to protect national security. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. I have had the opportunity several times, Mr President, to present the government's view of Nord Stream 2, including in this House, through my replies to Maria Weimer's interpellation 2015/ 16:699 and Mikael Oscarsson's interpellation 2015/ 16:753. I believe that these debates have shown that there is broad consensus in Parliament on the issues that the project is travelling. The request for the signature of a letter to which both interpellants refer was received by the Government at the beginning of March 2016, at a stage when the letter was already signed by several Member States. The reply deadline was very short, and we were not offered the opportunity to influence the content of the letter. After preparation within the Government Office, the overall assessment was made that the Prime Minister would not sign the letter. As the interpellants are well aware, the government is actively working on the issue of Nord Stream 2 at European level and has repeatedly been in contact with both the Commission and other EU Member States. This issue is addressed both in bilateral contexts and within the framework of EU cooperation. As regards the protection of national security interests, work is under way within the Government Office to assess the project and to formulate and evaluate different options for action.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-7	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State! I usually regularly ask the Prime Minister a number of questions when he has done foreign and security policy things and when the Council of State Committee does different things. The Prime Minister has a tendency never to respond to them but to send the Foreign Minister. She usually does it well, but sometimes I regret her role as a cleaner for the Prime Minister. That's the way it is today. I thank you for your answer, but many of the questions I ask are not really answered: what was the reason why they abstained from signing the letter? Between the request and the reply, according to the documents I have requested from the Council of State Committee, it took six days. Why was no broader preparation done? As I understand it, there were no documents drawn up on this matter at the Ministry of Defence, for example. And why were there no attempts to revise if some formulations were now negative? Mr President, I would like to I have brought the letter with me, which I have requested from the Council of State Committee. As I see it, the letter to the European Commission gives three reasons why Sweden should sign it. One is that Europe should not become more dependent on an energy form and, above all, not on a single way of delivering this energy in the form of a cable or pipeline at the bottom of the Baltic Sea. The second is that this risks undermining Ukraine. They are currently receiving money for the transit traffic of Russian gas passing through Ukraine into the European market. This is a fairly significant amount of money. It also points to the destabilising geopolitical order currently in place in Europe. I think all these reasons are fundamentally very relevant. The criticism that can be made against Nord Stream 2 has three main lines. The first question to be asked is whether it is compatible with the EU Energy Union that we are making ourselves even more dependent on a supplier and, above all, that we are relying on a single way of delivering the gas into Europe. The big question to ask is whether it is in Europe's interest to have more Russian gas or have less Russian gas. The second reason, of course, is the deteriorating security situation. Mr President, I absolutely do not need to teach the Foreign Minister this. She, too, is well acquainted with this, and I know that she is also very concerned about the security situation we now have up here in Northern Europe. Following the illegal annexation of Crimea, Sweden has been clear. We are constantly insisting that it is contrary to international law and that it is an illegal annexation. This is a key message. We also have the fighting in eastern Ukraine, which has so far claimed at least 10 000 dead and 20 000 injured. What's happening is terrible. This causes the security situation to deteriorate and it is steadily deteriorating. It is in the light of this that there is good reason to question Nord Stream 2. The third reason, which I have just emphasised and which is also an issue that is being highlighted increasingly in Brussels, is: are we really going to help undermine the Ukrainian economy in this way? If Nord Stream 2 becomes a fact, Ukraine risks losing significant revenue. Mr President, I would like to I think that we should therefore move from words to deeds. It is a bit curious that Sweden abstained when we received an offer already in March to sign a letter that eventually brought together nine or possibly ten states. The reasons set out in the letter – five or six – are basically very factual and good. So I do not understand why they abstained. I also believe, Mr President, that in the situation we are in, it is better to be many who signal concern and aversion to Nord Stream 2. Together with other co-signatory countries, such as Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, Sweden could have stood side by side to say that Nord Stream 2 is a bad project. It is not in Europe's interest, and we in Europe should not make ourselves more dependent on Russian gas. It is therefore sad that the Prime Minister abstained from being a co-signator.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-18	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. The issue of Nord Stream is very important. It is primarily about Sweden's security and Russia's ability to act on our territory. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his reply that Sweden is acting and that there is a broad consensus, but then one has to ask what these efforts consist of. The train left in March when we did not sign. Instead, does the Minister of Foreign Affairs intend to take the initiative in writing a letter of his own in order to create a commitment that is shown in practical action? It's got to be connected. Sweden must show leadership on this issue. That is why this is an important task that lies on Sweden. I wonder how the government intends to act to prevent the Russian state from buying access to Swedish territory in order to continue to carry out military acts and economic blackmail against, among others, Ukraine, which is totally contrary to the fundamental principles of the UN Charter regarding states' obligations to respect each other's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Gazprom, and Nord Stream 2, have been wholly owned by the Russian State since August 2016. Gazprom's actions are therefore entirely governed by the interests and needs of the Russian State. We must not ignore this, especially with the increasingly tougher security policy environment in which we find ourselves. We know that the Kremlin representatives have threatened with nuclear weapons and that the Russian Armed Forces are acting very forcefully in the Baltic Sea. Then there is every reason for Sweden to be careful. Mr President, I would like to This is especially true now that it has been revealed in the media in various ways that the Swedish Armed Forces are clear that this is a bad idea. It is bad for Sweden's safety that Nord Stream 2 is being built at all, and that Sweden would give space to use both Slite harbour and Karlshamn harbour. This would affect the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to protect Sweden and the Swedish population. It has also emerged that there are quite aggressive Russian espionage activities against the Swedish Armed Forces' employees on Gotland, and this escalates in other parts of the country. I am sure that this is something that concerns both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence. It is quite clear that what the ÖB says in Agenda that this is a bad idea is an understatement. This is something you advise against. Then it is very important that it is linked to the commitments in the previous debate and that Sweden is now also acting. You have to put your foot down. This is also important in view of the decision to be made on Gotland in December. How does the government intend to act? Now it's going to be some kind of thought-worship. Those who work in local self-government think that the government will do something, but the government seems to most likely that the rescue will come from the Commission. I have asked a number of questions and I hope that I will get clear and clear answers on this important issue of security policy.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-26	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your kind words, Mr Wallmark. Of course, I'm doing this because I like to debate with you so much. That's why I stand here repeatedly. Thank you for raising this issue. Late, the sinner should wake up, perhaps you could say. You belong to parties that were part of the previous alliance government, which in 2009 allowed Nord Stream to put the first two pipelines in the Swedish economic zone. I will not criticise that decision. It was a natural consequence of applying the laws and regulations in force, as we intend to do. Of course, we intend to honour our legal commitments. No, the train didn't go because you didn't sign a letter. Now I think you're bickering. Surely it is not going from words to deeds to writing a letter to the Commission, no matter how much I respect the European Union and the Commission. Maybe that's the easiest part. We assessed this after looking at it. It was ready to sign; it was not possible to influence the content. When this was prepared, it was estimated that it was not the best thing to do in that situation; it would not have benefited our interests. This is where it is important to act. It's not going from words to deeds to just signing a letter, is it? We agree with the government and with the opposition that, because of Russia's actions, we have a deteriorating security policy situation in the immediate region and in Europe. Sweden is one of the EU Member States that is driving the EU's approach towards Russia to reflect that understanding. At the same time, the legal situation with regard to Nord Stream 2 remains unchanged in decisive parts of international law. It is still the Swedish continental shelf law and the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea that sets the conditions for the review that the government has to make of the company's permit application. It is only now that we have received it and can take a position on it. While the EU Energy Union brings together the common energy policy in a framework and has taken significant steps forward, several of the principles on which the Member States agree, such as diversification and a reduction in dependence, are not integrated into formal acts. They are political in nature, and it is a challenge when they are to be applied and enforced. What we have done is that, over the past year, we have regularly consulted both the Commission and the Member States of the European Union, and we are working very closely with the other countries around the Baltic Sea. The Prime Minister himself touched on the matter with his colleagues at the last European Council. The government will continue to follow this issue closely, as it is ultimately also a matter of our security policy. In this spirit, we invited the parliamentary parties to an information meeting no later than yesterday, when your parties were given full insight into the work that is currently going on. It is about getting involved in the EU community, looking at the legal situation, which, of course, we are now doing with referrals of this proposal to the relevant authorities, and acting fully in accordance with our security policy interests. The government looks forward to our being able to broaden and deepen the discussion on this important issue. This letter is already of no interest. Progress has already moved a long way forward. You can, of course, argue about that, but it will not help the issue of Nord Stream 2. I have not heard a single proposal from you. So what are we gonna do? Do you have any suggestions of your own?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-34	Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely sure that it is only the joy of debates with the undersigned that attract Mrs Wallström to the House. It may also be the concern of the Prime Minister. I think she explains the Swedish security policy line better than he does, even though I think there are cavities in what she just said; I will point out some of them. Let's get some things out of here! I think it is good that the Foreign Minister is now making it clear that the legal situation that prevailed in 2009, when Nord Stream 1 was granted, was similar to what we have today. It's about the same kind of laws that apply. What is the big difference between when Nord Stream 1 arrived and when Nord Stream 2 is now being dealt with is the EU Energy Union and the deteriorating security situation. We have to admit that. I think there is every reason to be self-critical. I think there is every reason to look critically back at the treatment of Nord Stream 1. But given the legal scope, this was the decision that was made. However, Nord Stream 2 must be seen in the light of both the deteriorating security situation and the EU Energy Union. I think we should be able to agree on that. Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State thinks we're arguing about this letter. Well, now it's pretty important. For some time there was quite a lack of clarity as to whether or not this letter had been offered, whether or not it had been answered, and if so, what the answer had been. I still find it rather remarkable. We've pulled out these documents. I have not received them myself, but they have been requested, and it has been almost a little detective work to get them out. But now we have this letter. This was offered to Sweden in March, over six months ago. I am among those who believe that this process is largely political, as the Foreign Minister states. Then it's a matter of running opinion. I believe that Sweden would have shown leadership. Sweden should have been one of the countries around the Baltic Sea that showed leadership on this issue early this spring. What is at issue is that North Stream 2 with Russian gas for Europe is not in our country, in the interests of our neighbourhood or in the interests of Europe. Perhaps it would have been good if we had been co-signatories to the letter that we were offered to sign; when you run opinion towards the Commission, the more you are, the better. The Secretary of State is calling for what we think should be done. I think that we should work politically towards the Union, work with our European partners to gain the insight that Nord Stream 2 is not in Europe's interest. As it says in the letter rejected by the Prime Minister, there are three things: we should not make ourselves more dependent on a supplier and a supply chain, that is, Nord Stream 2, we should not undermine Ukraine and we are in a deteriorating security climate. What is fundamentally wrong with the letter? Just over a week ago, I was in the Baltic Assembly in Riga and met representatives of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. They have noted that we have this rather lively debate in Sweden thanks to the fact that we from the opposition are pushing forward. It is clear from representatives of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania that Nord Stream 2 is not in the interest of the Baltic Sea region. Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson highlighted two things that I want to continue to elaborate. Firstly, Nord Stream is not just any company. Behind it are the Russian state's own power interests in the form of the power company Gazprom. As a result, this is not just any commercial deal or any company. The interests of the Russian state are at the root of this, and it is important to emphasise this in the debate. Nor do I think that there is a fundamental difference between the opinion of the Foreign Minister. Secondly, this is not good with Slite and Karlshamn. It is a threat to defence policy. Therefore, I can say with great pride that the Moderates both on Gotland and in Karlshamn are actively working against having to establish operations with Russian pipes in both Slite and Karlshamn.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-41	Mr President, I would like to Tack, Secretary of State, for the answer! In her reply, she began by referring to the fact that we are coming now and that a decision on Nord Stream 1 was taken back in time. It is a completely different security policy situation now, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows that very well. We would not then have had Crimea or the tensions that we now see. There were tendencies, but now we have quite a different example of Russia's readiness to use its military capabilities. This puts it in a much more serious position. As far as the letter is concerned, it matters whether it is eight, nine or ten countries that write a letter to the Commission and thus define our position. It's pretty obvious, isn't it? Then the question is: In what way should this be weighed if the Swedish Armed Forces are so clear that it is bad? We know that the Vice-President of the United States said very clearly when he came to Sweden: It's a bad deal. It was bad for Europe, and he really advised against it. If our own Defense Power advises against what else is needed? That is a concrete question. Isn't national security something that should be the most important thing? If that is the most important thing, does the government intend to make a clear no? We have another part in this. It is not just up to this House and the government. Region Gotland is very much involved. There is the issue now, and a decision is to be made in December. That's where the representatives are. It is a social democrat who is the strong man for you, Björn Jansson. He has repeatedly maintained that this is a purely commercial issue, most recently in the debate on 17 October. He maintains that it is not Gotland's responsibility to assess the security situation and that it does not matter that the company is a wholly owned Russian company. Is it a way in which the government is comfortable that decisions are likely to be made in December? One sees the 55 million for natural reasons. But isn't that weird? Should the information from the Swedish Armed Forces not reach Region Gotland in an appropriate way before making the decision? That would be very reasonable. What it boils down to is that this is an issue that requires clear and resolute action. The government would have had to sign the letter. You can do it afterwards and send a letter. However, it is also necessary to be clear about Slite port in particular. This is definitely an issue on which the government is able to make decisions. It would be a clear signal from Sweden that it is not just words we are doing in this House but that it has practical consequences. It will be a njet from Sweden when it comes to using Slite harbour and also Karlshamn harbour. That would be the best part.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-49	Mr President, I would like to I did not register as a speaker in the debate. When we last debated Nord Stream 2, I understood that we were very much in agreement that Nord Stream 2 is not a good idea. I also understood that we agreed that Sweden should comply with the international commitments we have entered into. I wonder now if that has changed. Do the Moderates and Christian Democrats mean that we should violate the international commitments we have and international law, and on what grounds? I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs had a point when she asked the question: what are your concrete proposals as to what the Swedish Government should do more than influence the way she has said? We agree that Nord Stream 2 is not a very good idea. But the question is what we can do about it more than the advocacy work that the government has already explained.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-51	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, our policy is to honour our legal commitments. Secondly, we shall ensure that we can combine this with following the policy objectives set in the European Union's Energy Union. That is what we are doing and what we are doing, and you are well informed about it now. We have called your parties to inform us about how we work with those things. It has also been very clear, Mr Wallmark, in cooperation with the Baltic countries. When we celebrated their 25-year-old freedom, we made statements where it became very clear that we feel the same way and have the same assessment of the issues in terms of political orientation. With regard to the specific issue of Slite port, it was not included in the famous letter. Let us now leave the letter. What's up now? What is the situation right now, and what can we do? We have to protect Sweden's security and defence policy interests. We are now obtaining evidence from authorities, and we formulate our position from a broad perspective. The activities that Nord Stream 2 plans to implement are closely monitored by both the government and the responsible Swedish authorities. It is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Sweden's geological survey, the Swedish Maritime Administration, the Swedish Coast Guard and the Swedish Armed Forces. In view of the development of our neighbourhood in the Baltic Sea region, Gotland has a particularly important position. It is also a Swedish strategic interest to have a military presence on and around Gotland. It has a stabilising effect on the military strategic situation in the Baltic Sea. The Swedish Armed Forces have therefore begun work to establish military presence and operations on Gotland. Now the government is taking advantage of every opportunity to obtain the best possible basis for its choice of action regarding the ports of Karlshamn and Slite. Again, it is important to respect both Swedish and international law. We can't just come up with something that goes against international law. Then we would follow in Russia's footsteps, and that is surely not the intention. We must respect the legal framework we have to comply with when it comes to evaluating the application for which we have come to Sweden. As you well know, we alone cannot put an end to this. We can't stop this project alone. We need to have Europe with us. We are therefore working actively towards the Commission with repeated contacts. We work with contacts with the Baltic countries and with others involved in this. If you really wanted to be useful, you would try to target those who intend to buy the gas. Of course, that would be the most important thing you can do. This applies to customers in Germany and also in the UK. That's the basic problem. It is gas pipelines that will have too many potential customers and benefactors eventually. It also makes the project much more difficult. This is about taking action. We do this both in the European context and with other countries that like us. We work with partners both around the Baltic Sea and in the EU context. As you know, we have sent out the application for a referral and will of course return when we have received comments. We are very active, and we will also continue to keep the opposition parties informed of what we are doing.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-60	Mr President, I would like to To sum up, the good reasons for rejecting Nord Stream 2 are fundamentally contrary to our common energy union. There is a deteriorating security situation in northern Europe following the illegal annexation of Crimea and what is happening in eastern Ukraine. This also risks undermining Ukraine by depriving them of the opportunities to make money from Russian gas transit traffic entering the European market. Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State said a very interesting word. You can go back to the Minutes then and see what she said in her previous speech. She said that now the opposition is being informed. That is absolutely correct. We've been conducting two talks under organized forms at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since October, I think. So this has happened in the last six weeks. The letter, Mr President, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs regards as contentious when we talk about it, was written in March. I believe that this is the lack of leadership. We should have gathered a coalition against Nord Stream early in the spring, together with other countries. I am absolutely convinced that the more countries that mark against this, the more weight and strength it has against the European Commission. It is just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated: it is ultimately a matter of political balance. That is why I regret the lack of leadership shown by not being on the letter. I have still not heard a factual argument as to what the content of the letter was so bad. Mr President, I would like to Finally, Åsa Eriksson says that the parties agree that this is not a good idea. Then I think there should be consequences. I have talked to Moderates on Gotland and in Karlshamn that it is a bad idea to have Russian pipes there. Has Åsa Eriksson talked to her partners? And has she moved the ocial democrats on Gotland and in Karlshamn to understand the security policy implications that lie in this? What else can you do? Well, Mr President, we had the Nordic Council last week. The Secretary of State was there. From the group I belong to, we have pushed the demand to look at Nord Stream 2 from a Nordic perspective. When we had that discussion in the Chamber, Swedish Social Democrats said nothing. It's very telling, Åsa Eriksson.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-65	Mr President, I would like to What would the Christian Democrats do, and what is the proposal? It is to take on board what the Armed Forces say and let it be superior together with a reference to the Energy Union and the Commission to act in the way they can. Overall, I find it difficult to see it in any other way than that it is just as one has come up with: This is a bad idea. Sweden should not contribute to this. We must see that we have an important role as leaders. We cannot hide behind this decision at local level and then hope that someone else will deliver the message. We must put on our own leadership shirt and make sure we are clear. The words that have been said in the debate must also be concrete in terms of letters as well as documents and rejections from the Swedish side. We know that this is of great geopolitical importance. We know that for Ukraine these are not peanuts. It is perhaps 2 – 3 percent of their bnp that will be lost through reduced revenues and that will immediately close off. Sweden has been a leading figure in supporting Ukraine's willingness to move closer to the EU. Then we must make sure that we do not play double bets, but that we must do what we can on the other side too. Everything comes down to the fact that this is a way for Russia to gain economic, political and military influence in the Baltic Sea through Gazprom. Allowing Russia access to Swedish territory is quite insane, and I hope that the government can be clear about this in the future.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-69	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark speaks very well about the importance of information, contacts and advocacy. That sounds good to me. My impression is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are quite good at informing, anchoring and communicating this. I am new to Parliament, so my question is: Was it the same under the bourgeois government? Did they have the same exchange of information then? If I understood the matter correctly yesterday, a move was made with the Members of Parliament on the matter, so I still get the impression that we are trying to do what we can to inform and anchor and also to press those who should be printed on. I believe that Mikael Oscarsson said that this was an entirely different situation when the bourgeois government decided on Nord Stream 1. In a way, it was a different situation, but the situation with Georgia had, as I recall, already occurred at the time. So it was not a completely different situation. Could it be that Mikael Oscarsson sometimes applies selective oblivion when it suits? Or are there other reasons? At the end of the day, at least we agree on a great deal on the subject. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister so much for giving us the opportunity to access information and for the advocacy work that the government is doing.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-73	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to reiterate that we intend to act in accordance with existing law and law. Even references to the UN Charter, which I know Mikael Oscarsson has used before, do not give Sweden the right to prevent another state from exercising its right to lay pipelines outside our territory. We are using the right to place pipelines on the seabed. This is something we must look at carefully so that we act in accordance with international law. That is also how we have to deal with the application that has been received. In addition, we will act in the Commission so that it will hopefully be able to define the whole Energy Union as a project. It is a question of assessing it on the basis of the whole route or landing site on German territory, and it is also necessary to examine the legal situation – particularly for countries that could say no because the management goes on their territory. For Sweden, it is about the Swedish economic zone. It is important to keep track of the facts in this. The Commission has said in the European Parliament that it believes that Nord Stream 2 cannot be built in a legal vacuum and that it must be put in a legal framework that is compatible with the EU acquis. According to the Commission, it is ultimately the German authorities that must ensure that this is the case. That is why we have to work through the Commission to influence those countries which are now also consumers or buyers of Russian gas. We take the challenges of security policy very seriously. That is why we involve all those who are now involved, including everyone on Gotland, in order to safeguard our security policy interests. We will do so, and we will of course do so in cooperation with those on Gotland who have to decide on applications to place pipes there. But we will do it with respect for law and right.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-77	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked the Minister for Defence if he intends to initiate an independent evaluation of the operation in Libya in 2011. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. On 17 March 2011, the UN Security Council, in its Resolution 1973 in accordance with Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, decided that the situation in Libya posed a threat to international peace and security. The Security Council called for an immediate ceasefire and for violence against civilians to cease. The main purpose of resolution 1973 was to protect civilians. The resolution gave a mandate to Member States to take all necessary measures to protect civilians and areas of civilian population threatened by attacks in Libya. In order to protect civilians, the resolution also mandated the establishment and maintenance of a no-fly zone over Libya, with the exception of humanitarian operations and evacuation. Among other things, the resolution called on the Member States to establish an arms embargo and to freeze assets.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-79	The Swedish force consisted of between five and eight JAS Gripen and a transport aircraft with air refuelling capacity. The Swedish operation consisted of maintaining the no-fly zone, i.e. a limited part of the information provided by Resolution 1973. Depending on the time, the Swedish force consisted of between 125 and 250 people. The Force performed its mission within the given mandate. Against this background, the Government does not intend to set up an independent evaluation of the operation in Libya. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, of course, closely following developments in Libya, also in view of the impact of the interventions in 2011 on current conditions in the country. The situation in Libya remains very difficult. In the summer of 2014, armed battles again flared up between Libyan factions. The security situation on the ground, not least in the capital Tripoli, remains unstable. In the framework of the UN-led dialogue process, a peace agreement was signed in Skhirat, Morocco, in December 2015. Unfortunately, however, the implementation of the agreement is slow.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-82	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. So my question was whether the Minister – in this case I thought it was the Minister of Defence who was responsible – wanted to take the initiative for an independent evaluation of the Swedish operation in Libya, supplemented by an assessment of the long-term effects of the operation. The short answer from the Foreign Minister is no. The background to my question being raised at the moment is, on the one hand, the disastrous situation of the Libyan people today and, on the other hand, the recently published British parliamentary report on this issue. In the UK, a parliamentary group has investigated the background, course and outcome of the British operation in the Libyan War of 2011. The report is highly critical of the government and especially the then Prime Minister. The Gaddafi regime unequivocally carried on a brutal regime of abuse of its own population, and when the uprising against Gaddafi broke out, the regime responded to the demonstrations and demands for reforms by force, throwing the country into a civil war. You shouldn't put that under control. However, the British report states – this is very interesting when we are discussing disinformation campaigns, hybrid warfare and other things these days – that it is not possible to substantiate the allegations of the massive abuse of the civilian population that laid the foundations for international intervention. It was in many ways, and there are a number of examples, the same kind of hit-on stories as those of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, which led to the war which resulted in 600 000 deaths. The result in Iraq is known – not only the number of deaths, but also the breeding ground for IS and the subsequent refugee disaster. The real reasons for the attack were, according to the Commission – and here the report quotes information from the US Department of Foreign Affairs on President Sarkozys's war case – to secure a greater share of Libya's oil and to increase French influence in North Africa as well as other similar geopolitical factors. Then why should we be doing this now five years after? Well, the problem is, if we don't learn from history, we're doomed to repeat it. In the absence of evaluation of the Afghanistan operation, we are still there, and despite all the years and billions in this war, the security situation there is worse than ever. In addition, in the absence of analysis and evaluation of the way in which we deal with the truth, which is rather reckless, we are joining NATO Stratcom. It's almost bizarre. And in the absence of analysis and evaluation, a feminist foreign policy also risks effectively exposing women and children to almost unimaginable suffering. My question to Mrs Wallström remains: why not initiate an independent evaluation of the operation in Libya, complemented by an assessment of the long-term effects? All for the future.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-92	Mr President, I would like to I understand your point, Stig Henriksson, which is: How successful was this really politically? And did it achieve what it wanted to achieve with a security resolution in 1973? It is only that it is wrong to think that we can get a response to this by evaluating our efforts which were very limited, and we can also note that this force carried out its task within the given mandate. There is no more to investigate, and it was a very specific and limited task that the Swedish force had. On the other hand, history must, of course, be taught. I agree. It is incredibly important to make a political assessment also on the basis of the current situation. What went wrong, and what should we be trying to achieve today? But remember why this resolution was adopted and why Sweden also contributed! The situation in Libya was unique. Firstly, the regime committed violent abuse of its own population, and secondly, the UN Security Council assumed the responsibility of protecting the civilian population whose authorities were actually unable or unwilling to do so. Sweden also had the ability to contribute in a meaningful way, as it was then judged. I do not take responsibility for the decision, because it was the previous government that took it, but their evaluation must have been that they felt that they could make a meaningful contribution to the completion of the UN decision. It was with a UN mandate, and therefore it was considered Sweden's duty to do what we could. It was a question of international solidarity and of upholding international law in world politics. Sweden was not a party to an armed conflict, but we fulfilled the mission on an international mandate. We were not at war, and our internal legislation on increased preparedness did not come into question either. To focus precisely on the Swedish contribution and mean that it would necessitate a great evaluation I think will be a bit misdirected, Stig Henriksson. If you make a proper evaluation of the British report, it will be important, because they played a completely different and much more extensive role in all of this. I believe that this is above all a political assessment. It is important to do it and to conduct that debate, but this is not really the instrument for achieving it. We are happy to continue the discussion on Libya in terms of what has been achieved and the difficult situation that we still have to deal with.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-98	Mr President, I would like to This UN resolution supported by the Left Party – however, we reported a certain mistrust – only regulated that a no-fly zone could be introduced and not to take out Gaddafis air force, overthrow the government or deploy ground forces. The resolution was then violated. I do not know, for example, whether the Swedish operation contributed to this and if so, was involved in Gaddafis the resolution. I think it would be pretty good if you could make an independent evaluation when Sweden was still a participant in a war, because that was actually what it became. We have an evaluation of the Afghanistan operation under way. However, it is not very independent, I would say. I think that, not least at the S Congress, the call for a White Paper, which includes an independent body, was decided if the Afghanistan operation is indeed appropriate. Then why should we be doing this? We were there so little; there were some JAS planes here or there. I think it is quite obvious, because in this House there are repeatedly proposals that we should be involved in different ways and in different places in helping and bombing for peace, democracy and development, and I do not know everything. We're going to send JAS planes to Syria, think some. We're going to send JAS planes to Iraq, think others. It would therefore be good to be able to respond to the debate by assessing how well these military efforts to bring peace, democracy and development have succeeded in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. I think it would be a kind of political self-defence to make such values. I remember very well, although I did not sit in Parliament then, the feeling of despair that grips you when you see what is going on in a country like Libya or what is happening in Syria. When you have passed a certain point, it does not help to think about what you would have done long before, but of course you want to do something. But sometimes the cure is worse than the soot, as it is called. In other words, bomber operations tend to worsen the situation even more over time. That is why I believe that there is no good reason not to try to evaluate the effort that has been made, but also the result of it. We have debates like this quite often, I think. The debate on the interventions in Afghanistan and Iraq is about to come. We already know that proposals will be made to extend them and to do so more militarily and so on. So there are many good reasons to evaluate. However, this is also the case in itself. When we are involved in war, we should evaluate what the results were for the people we were there to help.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-107	Mr President, I would like to I have great sympathy for many of the views expressed by Stig Henriksson. It is rarely possible to bomb peace. Above all, it is important to be open to evaluating a particular effort, to see what mistakes have been made or what could have been done better. We'll remember what the situation was then. It was very similar to Syria. The basis of the Security Council resolution was the need to protect the civilian population. And it was clear that the task was to maintain a no-fly zone. There is no indication that the Swedish, very limited, effort would in any way have been carried out in a wrong way or that it would not have done what was intended. The purpose of the military operation was not to remove Gaddafi – we shall remember – but to protect the civilian population. Perhaps the most serious effect of what happened in Libya is that it was a very serious setback for the whole concept and the idea behind R2P, responsibility to p rotect. That concept was explained almost afterwards. It is important that we keep the idea behind that concept. But it may even have to be rebaptized. It was a very serious setback for the entire international community. As I said, we were not a party to an armed conflict. We did what was imposed on us, and we did it correctly. There is no indication whatsoever that this would not have been done properly. I think there will be the wrong entrance to such a discussion. We should continue this kind of debate, which deals with the political consequences. Of course, we should also always discuss whether Sweden should at all go in with military means in any conflict. I believe that we must be very cautious about this and, if so, we must know that we are acting on a UN mandate. It should be clear data and in such a way that we do not find weapons or other things in the wrong hands and so on. I think that I and Stig Henriksson share the view that this must be done in a thoughtful way. We have also done so in our decisions on ongoing action in the event of crises and conflicts. We will continue to act responsibly and thoughtfully. Of course, we will also act where there are UN mandates and international law bases.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-114	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree that it is important to exercise restraint and that there must be a UN mandate or other strong and unambiguous international legal support. It also includes a kind of self-defense, because why would anyone bother to respect international law and UN mandates against us if we, as a small nation, do not respect it? We must not forget that, of course, the great powers are highlighting the noble motives here, such as the desire to protect the civilian population. But the British report notes that there were also other motives: geopolitical, oil, etc. I don't think we should turn a blind eye to that. Disinformation campaigns for war are not a new phenomenon. The entire Illiad is basically a disinformation campaign. And so it has continued. With regard to Swedish participation, I would like to hope and believe that it was only about helping the civilian population. There are those who suggest that the arms industry was happy to see that the JAS plan would be used in a strong position, as it was a good sales argument for exports. I hope that was not something that was taken into account by the Swedish Parliament. At least the motives are often mixed. And it's serious when you easily turn a blind eye to it. We are happy to paint the mother of all disinformation campaigns like Russia. They are certainly doing it as much as they can, even though they are often clumsy. But it is naive to the other side, which is repeatedly, in the cases of Iraq and Libya, etcetera, for campaigns based on find-on-history. I think we should be a little more vigilant about that. As I said, a good evaluation leads to a better debate next time the issue comes up. I would therefore like to call for such an evaluation, particularly of the long-term effects, because we often discuss in this House whether to bomb peace, democracy and development.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-119	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson's words should almost be the last. Of course, peace can be bombed very rarely if it has ever been so. It takes much longer to create and maintain peace than it does to start a war. We therefore agree that thoughtful action must be taken. I think we should continue this debate, which is about what we learned from what happened in Libya. The way forward is not a special investigation about just the Swedish effort. I think we need to talk about Libya and the whole thing there, from the security resolution to how this was done in Libya and what we have learned since then. I think that is the best thing we can do in terms of the difficult challenge Libya is facing.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-121	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me what measures I intend to take to speed up the government's handling of appeals from municipalities for extended beach protection. On 1 July 2009, changes to the beach protection rules decided by the bourgeois government came into force. Among other things, they tightened the requirement for an extension of the coastal protection area. Since then, enlargement can only take place if it is necessary to ensure one of the objectives of beach protection, and an extension will apply after 31 December 2014 only if it has been decided on the basis of the new legislation. In connection with the entry into force of these amendments, the county administrative boards were tasked with reviewing and deciding on extended coastal protection areas in their own county. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis of the results of the review, it has led to a reduction in areas of extended beach protection for the country as a whole. After an appeal, the Government will examine the County Administrative Board's decision on extended beach protection. The review of the extended beach protection has meant that the government has received a very large number of cases in a short time, many in which both the municipality and a large number of individuals have appealed. Often the cases require extensive investigation of both formal and factual issues, and they normally affect a wide range of general and individual interests. All this obviously affects the duration of proceedings. The Ministry of the Environment and Energy has set a target of 75 percent of current cases to be settled within a year of their arrival at the Ministry. However, as cases differ in complexity and scope, the length of proceedings varies. However, the starting point for the administration is always that it should take place quickly, efficiently and without prejudice to legal certainty.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-124	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Although, in fact, I did not really receive an answer to my question as to what measures the Minister intends to take to speed up the administration. I got a description of why things have turned out this way, but nothing about how to make quick decisions. The matter I have learned about concerns a municipality's appeal to the County Administrative Board's decision to extend the beach protection to 300 meters around a large number of lakes in the municipality. Several of these appeals concern land suitable for building housing. The County Administrative Board's decision came on 11 November 2014– tomorrow is exactly two years ago. The law says that appeals must be made within three weeks, as was done by the municipality. The government has thus had almost two years to make a decision, but nothing has yet been done. We all know that there are perhaps hundreds of thousands of homes missing. Most housing is missing in and around our rapidly developing cities. The government has also promised many thousands of new homes in the coming years. But how is that supposed to happen? Today, it is almost routine for various construction and planning cases to be appealed for various reasons. This case shows that the government itself is the one that delays most and most. So my question is still: what do the government and the minister intend to do to remove the obstacles to building more homes? The Minister writes in his reply that the Ministry's goal is that three quarters of the cases should be settled within a year, and that it should be done quickly and efficiently. That's all well and good, but have you reached that goal? Is there any follow-up on how this has been done? It may have to be extra resources or something else if we now want to give priority to these types of cases. Perhaps it is necessary to confer with the county administrative boards on a different way of working. I think the Minister's answer is both vague and weak. It is not reasonable for matters to remain in place for two years and longer when there is a writing need to build housing. It would have been interesting to know how many more matters lie in wait and how many homes are not built because of the slowness of the government. I've looked into some similar appeals where the government has made decisions. This mainly concerned Västra Götaland and Halland. In these cases, the government has annulled the county boards' decision to extend beach protection. But what are the county boards doing? Well, they still argue that the extension of beach protection is justified in all the municipalities that have appealed. First, the county administrative boards make temporary and then final decisions on extended beach protection – decisions that can then be appealed. It's going to be an unreasonable turn. This can't be allowed to go on. If the government wants, it can go in and change the regulations so that homes can be built and so that the whole process can be speeded up. Perhaps you should look at how the environmental units of the county boards work. Sometimes it is zealous individual officials who, despite government decisions, work in the opposite direction. I am very interested to hear how active measures have been taken to deal with this, which seems to me to be completely dizzy and which is extremely annoying in times of major housing shortage.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-136	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind the honourable Member and the listeners once again that the decision at issue here is a task that the previous government gave to all county boards to review all the extended shore protection. As we know, we have a very long coastline and very large areas that are relevant for an extended beach protection. It was expected that this would lead to a very comprehensive case management. I sincerely hope the government understood this when it made that decision. Between October 2014 and February 2015, 108 appeals were lodged at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which were prompted by this particular question. This is to be compared with a normal year of entry into this unit of approximately 100 cases. This decision thus generated as many appeals as all other decisions. However, in the run-up to the decision, there was a reinforcement at the administrative level in order to deal with these cases. The management of the new legislation has also generated many calls. The Government has a very active dialogue with the entire circle of county boards on which is the reasonable management and how to work with the application of the legislation in accordance with the mandates to promote increased housing construction. This government is very clear that it is a high priority. We are also very clear that all authorities should include it when making their balances and making decisions on handling issues. An aggravating circumstance is that almost everyone who appeals requests inhibition, and then it should be dealt with first and promptly. That is one of the reasons why some cases are going to be left behind for a long time because we always have to deal with the inhibitions first. It had not been foreseen, but it is one thing that delays the procedure without directly creating any benefit. If you look back, it is very rarely that it becomes an inhibition, but the question still needs to be tried, and it consumes a lot of time. The important thing here is the dialogue between the government and the county boards, how to deal with the issues collectively and how to balance different interests. These are complex issues, not least because they concern individual interests in a way that really affects property rights. On the basis of the great mandate given by the previous government to all county boards, we must accept that these difficult issues need to take their time to test.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-142	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that it is a lot of work and that there are many appeals, absolutely. After all, when we implemented the 2009 amendment to the beach protection, the legislator's intention was that it would be easier to build lakeside and that there would be more attractive housing. Then some interpretations have been made, so that it has become almost the opposite. This government is in its full freedom to go in and change the law itself, if you have the intention to build more homes, preferably in lake areas. After all, the law passed in 2009 is not cut into stone. It can be changed. When the law was written in 2009, it made it possible to interpret it in a direction that we did not intend. We intended that more housing could be built. It is sad that there have been so complicated and lengthy appeals both to the county boards and to the Government Office. It's kind of a bunch of paper stuff to handle, I know, because I've seen them. Like the government, it cannot just say that thousands of new homes will be built when we have laws that make it possible through appeals to hinder the entire construction and planning process. I think the government should start there, and that's why I thought it was interesting to write this interpellation. One cannot only conclude that there are many appeals and that they take a very long time. You have to do something about it. Care must be taken to make it easier to build housing. This is clear proof of that. The government has all the power to make that change. I don't know how the government thinks about building housing either. It is not only in the Stockholm region that it is almost impossible and where the process can take up to five to seven years. That's completely unreasonable. In an international comparison, it is said that Sweden has a system – and it is perhaps in every good sense that one should be able to appeal – that makes it so much harder to build. When traveling in the world, you can sometimes ask yourself how they can build in a certain way, so it is good that there is a protective work that makes it not very crazy. But we may need to review it so that when someone is interested in building that land can be found for the builders to build on.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-149	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to make it clear that if the government today changes the legislation on how to decide on extended beach protection, it will obviously not affect ongoing legal proceedings in any way. I would like to correct the honourable Member here. The processes that are under way should be managed correctly and efficiently. There is great pressure for housing construction all over the country. The government is very clear that we must be allowed to move forward here. That is why the government initiated broad housing policy discussions to discuss possible regulatory simplifications. Unfortunately, it was nothing because the opposition chose to leave the talks. Nevertheless, the government has identified a number of simplifications that we will proceed with on our own initiative. Unlike the previous government, we have changed the rules of appeal and removed an appeal panel in the planning and construction process in Sweden. We saw that it did not serve the purpose of increased citizen influence. The issue is complex. At the same time, community planning and strategic construction are an important tool for society to meet the challenges we face. It is incredibly important that with all new homes being built in Sweden there is a public service that is well thought out and wise. It will solve its tasks, contribute to our environments and create a good quality of life. There is a balance to be struck here. My colleague, Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson, is very active in looking at what regulatory changes can be made. He has, among other things, initiated a review of the work on the so-called LIS areas related to beach protection, with a view to genuinely strengthening the development of, among other things, residential building in rural areas. None of this alters the fact that there is now a major process of the extended shore protection, which is launched and under way. Our task right now is to manage it correctly and efficiently and to strike a sensible balance between public and private interests. I would also like to acknowledge that the purpose of the review was to reduce the amount of extended beach protection. They have. This means that the reform is labour-intensive, but it still seems to achieve its purpose.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-156	Mr President, I would like to We can discuss for a long time the reasons and so on. But it is still a little strange; an appeal must be made within three weeks according to the law, but it says nowhere in the law how long the government can take, but it has set a goal that 75 percent of the cases should be completed within a year. At least this has not happened in this case. I have not received an answer to the question of how the objectives are achieved or what follow-up is taking place. The Minister said there has been an increase in the number of officials. I certainly hope so. The danger is that there may be a KU notification. A government cannot take a long time to make decisions. It will be a paradox in the whole process if the legislator fails to behave. I would like to see a follow-up of what it looks like if more resources need to be added. The matters that lie ahead must, of course, be dealt with. But what I meant by the government being able to change the law is that the government can do so if it has promised a lot of housing and sees that there are many obstacles on the way to achieving the goal of housing. Then the government can do something. We have not yet seen any of that. Long processing times and slowness are not acceptable when we are waiting to find new land and new housing.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-161	Mr President, I would like to One important thing to understand what is happening is that the appeals that reach all the way up to the Ministry of Environment and Energy are complex and complex. The simple cases are solved lower down the system. The cases are very different. Some of them stand out by being appealed by several different parties, not infrequently with the opposite intention in their appeal, and relate to several individual interests, i.e. several property owners. They concern several general and individual interests in a legal sense and are complex in nature. They stand out as far as procedural matters are concerned. Then there is communication between the Constitutional Committee and the Ministry of Environment and Energy on the details. That's one reason I don't want to go too deep into the details. There is such communication. Of course, the work has been strengthened, and we are also making further reinforcements to keep a sufficiently good staffing. But this is not the only answer. The issues that are complex also involve a lot of communication throughout the case and very broad preparation in the Government Office. They then affect several departments. We are, of course, working very intensively on these issues. I have had the opportunity to take a fair number of them to decision. We're working on it. I promise.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-166	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me, firstly, whether I intend to heed the criticism and present a proposal that allows employee options in more companies than the investigation proposes, and secondly, when I will present a proposal on employee options. The question is raised in the light of the proposal on qualified employee stock options submitted by the Investigation on Tax Rules for Incentive Schemes in March of this year. The inquiry's proposals have been referred to. The inquiry's proposals and referrals are prepared within the Government Office in the usual order. I do not want to anticipate that preparation.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-168	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, this was not a real answer to my question. Knowledge-intensive service companies need much better opportunities to establish, recruit and grow in Sweden. Sweden already has many successful companies in environmental technology, medical technology and IT. Companies are competing in an increasingly globalised market. The ability to employ and retain qualified key personnel is crucial for the companies to grow. At the same time, access to capital is limited in the start-up phase of a company. Therefore, there is a high risk that the difficulty of recruiting and retaining key market wage earners will stop many knowledge-intensive companies on the way. In several other countries, employee options have greatly contributed to the favourable conditions for young innovation-driven companies to grow rapidly. Today, the taxation of employee stock options reaches up to 68 per cent in Sweden, which means that this is not a realistic option for start-ups. That is why the alliance government set up an investigation to review the taxation of employee stock options. The investigation is now complete; the referral process is also completed. Even if the preparation is ongoing in the Government Office, the Minister of Finance should be able to give an indication of where the government is leaning. It is important for the business environment to make it attractive taxes. That is why my questions remain with the Minister for Finance. Jobs are moving to Sweden, not from Sweden. Does the Prime Minister see the potential of start-up and growth companies? If so, will the government improve the business environment by reducing corporate taxes? Or is it what I suspect, namely that tax after tax should be increased?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-173	Mr President, I would like to We are currently seeing that jobs are growing in Sweden. The Swedish economy is making strong progress. 120 000 new jobs have been created since this government took office. It is an important and good development. We also see that many of the new jobs come in small and medium-sized enterprises. Then it is of course important to work to ensure that we have a good tax on the business community in Sweden. I therefore welcome the fact that the previous government set up the investigation into employee stock options. The proposal that came in was submitted to the government for a referral, and a large number of referrals were received in August. Given that this is a new proposal that would create a fairly large change in the current tax system, it is important that we take into account those points of reference. The comments come from various sources. Consultation bodies such as the Swedish Financial Control Agency, SKL and the Swedish Tax Agency believe that this is a departure from neutral and uniform taxation and that the tax system becomes more complicated. But there are also criticisms from the other side, including from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Entrepreneurs who believe that they have too high demands in this proposal on which companies should issue the employee options. There are also comments on which requirements should apply and which employees should have the employee options. Given that the proposal is a new element in the Swedish tax system, my assessment is that it is important that we listen carefully to the consultation points and carry out a proper preparatory work before taking a position on the issue.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-177	Mr President, I would like to Again: Jobs are moving to Sweden. Jobs should not move from Sweden. Then we need to tear down even more obstacles for the job creators. The government often talks about an active economic policy. Unfortunately, it seems to be about actively sucking all the nutrition out of businesses. These are the deterioration of RUT, they are profit restrictions, they are the introduction of kilometre tax, they are forced quotas for company boards, they are the deterioration of the 3:12 rules, they are the introduction of a financial tax and they are more complicated procurement rules. When will the policy that makes it easier for the job creators come? While the government is deteriorating the business environment, companies are acting. They're moving abroad. Job disappears. The other day, the Union of Trade Unions presented a report. It turns out that every fourth company has plans to move its business abroad within five years. We have seen how Findus in Bjuv and Ericsson in several locations have chosen to move their business to other countries. As the business environment deteriorates, this relocation accelerates. Behind every media clip on notice, closure and deportation, there are people of flesh and blood who lose their jobs. If we are to create security for them, we need a business environment that is much better. It must be competitive to run companies in Sweden. Does the Minister of Finance share my concern that more companies will move or establish themselves in other countries? Is the government prepared to act to improve the business environment? A more competitive taxation of employee stock options is part of this. When does the Minister of Finance think that the government can present a bill on the issue of employee stock options?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-182	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Jörgen Warborn that we have strong job growth in Sweden right now. As I said in my last speech, 120 000 new jobs have been created since this government took office. We also see that the notice is low – lower than in many of the years when Jörgen Warborn's party was in government. We also see a fall in unemployment, not least youth unemployment, which is the lowest in 13 years. But of course it is important to continue working to strengthen the business climate and the industrial policy work in Sweden. The government has been working hard on this since the first day we entered the Government Office. When you discuss with companies, there are often three things they raise that they perceive as major problems. The first is to find staff with the right skills, the second is the infrastructure and the third is housing, so if you find staff that you want to move to the locality it is difficult to find a dwelling. All three areas we in the government have worked intensively on since we entered the Government Office. We are working on a new comprehensive and permanent knowledge boost to enable people to acquire the skills that companies demand. We make historical investments in infrastructure, both maintenance and new construction, and we have launched the largest housing policy package in over 20 years. This government is therefore pursuing a very active policy to strengthen the business community in Sweden. In addition, we have changed our business policy – among other things, we are working more actively with state venture capital to make it more effective. We have also increased our ambitions for our export policy through Team Sweden. Here, too, the government is making a number of efforts. As far as taxes are concerned, I note that many times over the last two years the Moderates here in the pulpit have talked about how terrible all the government's tax increases are and how hard they will hit jobs and growth. However, I note that in this year's budget motion, the Moderates have accepted a large proportion of the tax changes proposed by the government. I think it will be the same with the tax proposals we had in this year's budget.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-188	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance mentioned the referee. Allow me to refer to at least one of the referrals received. This is how the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences writes:...The assumption made by the investigation that growth companies are by definition small and young is wrong. We continue to see that the limits on the number of employees, the balance sheet total and the age of the company should be substantially increased in order for more companies to benefit from this opportunity. ..................................................... We in the Moderates have put forward in our budget motion a proposal that includes more and larger companies. We propose that the number of full-time employees should be less than 250 instead of 50, as the investigation suggests. So more companies will be able to be included in our proposal. We further propose that the gross assets should not exceed SEK 330 million, unlike the investigation that proposes 80 million. As a result, more companies will be able to benefit from the Moderates' proposal. I hope that the government will come to Parliament as soon as possible with a bill covering more and larger companies similar to the proposal put forward by the Moderates. Finally, Mr President, the whole introduction to my first speech comes directly from a written question which the current Minister for Finance Per Bolund of the Green Party wrote to the then Finance Minister Anders Borg during the last term of office. The Green Party was – at least then – interested in introducing a competitive tax on employee stock options. It can be said that Per Bolund was at the time on behalf of the Minister of Finance in order to introduce this more generous taxation. In the light of how the Minister for Finance has responded to the questions, one might wonder: is it only the S ocial democrats who are now holding back the introduction of better taxation for small businesses?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-194	Mr President, I would like to As far as employee option taxation is concerned, it is just as I have said: we are now preparing this in the Government Office. It is important for the government to take responsibility and ensure that you make the right decision. On this particular proposal, a great many points of consultation have been raised. They have come from different directions, so there are criticisms from different sides. It is therefore important that we take this issue seriously. So did the Moderates when they were in government. If you extend this too much, there is a risk that there will be a hole in the tax system, so to speak, and that it will be a tool for tax planning and tax evasion. That is something that it is important to take into account when making the final decision on how to approach these questions. It was a responsibility that the Moderates took on in government and which I hope they are prepared to take in opposition as well.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-197	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me about the development of tax revenues to municipalities and county councils and whether the government's basis differs from the Tax Agency's. When it comes to information on municipal taxes and total tax revenues, the government's data as well as the Tax Agency's are based on the outcome of national accounts. The Government's information on the tax outcome of municipal taxes is therefore not different from that of the Tax Agency. During the previous government, total tax revenues increased by an average of 2.1 per cent per year while the economy grew significantly more by an average of 3.0 per cent per year. The fact that tax revenues grew at a lower rate than the economy at large is mainly explained by the unfunded tax cuts taken by the previous government of over SEK 140 billion. The fact that municipal tax revenues increased each year is largely explained by the fact that the municipal tax was increased in 265 of the country's 290 municipalities during the period. On average, the municipal tax rate was increased by 31 øre from 31.55 to 31.86 per cent. Total tax revenue per capita shows a weak trend over the period 2006-2014. The average increase over the period was 1.2 per cent per year. At the same time, municipalities' operating costs per person for the period were estimated to increase by an average of 3.0 per cent per year. Thus, the increase in tax revenues per person was less than the need for welfare services for the growing population. The number of employees in publicly funded welfare, which includes both public and private operators, also decreased by 5 per cent relative to the size of the population during the period. Many activities in municipalities and county councils are strained. Therefore, the government is making the largest single reinforcement of state grants to municipalities ever to develop welfare activities. The permanent addition of SEK 10 billion together with other welfare initiatives gives municipalities and county councils the opportunity to hire more people.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-202	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Finance for an interesting answer. It was not complete, but it is a starting point. At first I can see that the Minister for Finance between the lines confirms that there is no contradiction between reduced taxes and the priority given to welfare and that the Prime Minister was wrong in, among other things, the party leader debate. Alliance policy works: Tax revenues increased during the time of the Alliance. The strengthening of state subsidies to municipalities and county councils was necessary, not least because of the increased costs of immigration for municipalities. However, the Minister of Finance forgot to mention that a large part of this reinforcement is eaten up by increased sickness rates and the government's decision on, among other things, increased costs of hiring older and young people. So it is not certain that the money will go to what we refer to as welfare: education, health and long-term care. Then I still have to dig in and dig into the details. National accounts have the basis for tax revenues, but in terms of the number of employees in the publicly financed welfare, the Minister of Finance must have been given the task elsewhere. Furthermore, I wonder whether there is not a lack of meaning in the answer. The task concerns me, because it does not match the data I have, in this case from the Swedish Municipalities and County Council's report Buy of Operations 2014. I therefore question the fact that the number of employees in publicly funded welfare should have fallen by 5%. Perhaps this is linked to terminology; it will soon be explained by the Minister of Finance. Looking at the actual development of the number of people employed in health care, education and long-term care – i.e. both in municipalities and county councils and in the private sector – the number increased from 1,160,000 in 2007 to 1 230 000 in 2013, according to the register-based labour market statistics from SCB. Taking into account the population, the number of persons employed in health care, education and long-term care also increased from 12.65 per cent to 12.75 per cent. The growth in the number of employed persons in the private sector remained stable from 2007 to 2013, while in the general government sector it decreased by 2012 and then slightly increased thereafter. Overall, the public sector still has the highest number of employees. About one fifth of the employed in welfare work for a private employer. SKL's report provides a deeper analysis of the year 2013, including personal assistants. Most people agree that their work belongs to welfare, but according to normal statistics, they are financed through the Social Insurance Agency, which has been recognised in recent weeks. They are therefore not included. In 2013, 225,000 people worked in private companies in the public-funded welfare sector. I therefore wonder where the Minister of Finance has been given the task, which according to the information I have reported is wrong, that the number of employees in the publicly funded welfare should have decreased – which is missing but indicated in the answer – or decreased in relation to the size of the population.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-209	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson drives as many times before the thesis that reduced taxes lead to better welfare. There's something a little George Orwellian about it. I think most people understand that lowering taxes reduces tax revenues. It is clear that there is an idea with the Laffer curve, to which the most far-right Republicans sometimes refer. It is believed that reduced taxes will also lead to higher revenues. By right-wing extremity I mean that you stand far to the right, not that you have right-wing, racist views. That is not what I mean; it is extremely far to the right in the Republican Party; I saw a reaction in this House. It is important to point out that I do not refer to any far-right views but respect Anette Åkesson's view of democracy. On the other hand, I do not share her view, and I think that most people who watch and listen also understand that, of course, when you lower the tax, revenue is reduced. The increase in tax revenues in municipalities is due to the need to increase municipal taxes. It was the policy of the moderate-led government: taxes were lowered at state level, and government finances were eroded. At the same time as the needs of municipalities increased, the increase in state subsidies needed for their activities did not occur. Instead, the municipal tax was increased, so there was to some extent a shift from government income tax to an increase in municipal tax.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-212	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Finance and I have had similar debates in the past, but when the facts are pointed out, we still end up somewhere else. In addition, the 10 billion in government grants that the government will now transfer to the municipalities will go to very many different things. Municipalities and county councils are facing major challenges in the future, due to the immigration that we were dealing with but above all due to an ageing population. The latter affects in several ways: Fewer workers will support more and more people, and more people will need to use welfare services while staffing in healthcare, school and care is not secure. It is therefore of great importance that we work politically to ensure that the resources for the municipalities and county councils are secured. They do so through tax revenue. Today's municipal tax bases are mainly income taxes generated by people working. What it looks like in the future, we don't really know. There are signals that digitalisation and automation are threatening many jobs in the future, but if we start from today's situation, the funding of welfare in Sweden is all about increasing the number of hours worked. Then we need to focus politically on how it should be done. We are going to differ in different parties when it comes to how we want to solve the challenges. The Moderates and the Alliance advocate the work line; we want the cake distributed to be bigger. The Social Democrats and the other left-wing parties focus more on the distribution itself. In my opinion, it is unfortunate, but it is your responsibility. However, we need to agree on facts and that the opposing side, even if we do not believe in each other's political proposals, actually acts in good faith: that each government acts in the way it believes will be best for Sweden. During the alliance period, tax revenues for municipalities and county councils increased each year, with a short decline for the state in connection with the financial crisis. Those are facts. Each year under the alliance government thus increased both the resources for welfare and the number of employees, although not in the municipalities or county councils but in the publicly funded welfare. To grow even more than tax revenues are also facts and may be interesting to discuss in another context, as well as the fact that the costs per inhabitant of municipalities increased more than tax revenues. However, the Prime Minister's statements are not correct. In summary, tax revenues in municipalities and county councils increased during the alliance period, both in absolute terms and in relation to the population. Similarly, the number of employees in tax-funded welfare increased, both in absolute terms and in relation to the population. The Alliance's reforms thus meant that the Alliance prioritised welfare. Unfortunately, the current government has chosen not to maintain all the alliance reforms, which I believe will mean that Sweden will not go as well as it could. However, the present government should at least be honest enough to acknowledge the above facts, or not to make false claims to the contrary.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-220	Mr President, I would like to Of course, tax revenue increases when taxes are increased in municipalities. The increase in municipal taxes in bourgeois years was largely due to an increase in municipal taxes. It goes without saying that when the economy grows – when we become more people – tax revenue increases to some extent. But if you want to maintain a good quality of welfare, of course, tax revenues need to grow more in line with the bnp than they did during the moderate-led government. In particular, this may not be done only through municipal tax increases or to a large extent through municipal tax increases. The figure for the number of employees in publicly funded welfare is from the Ministry of Finance's calculations. They show that the number of employees decreased by 5 per cent relative to the size of the population. At the same time, it turns out that the needs of this period increased. The age composition of the population was in such a way that the needs increased. So you would have needed much more tax revenue than you got. I think this is in line with how most people perceived the business during these years. You see kindergarten staff, school staff and elderly care staff who are working hard to maintain quality. They'd need more workmates. That is why we in this government have since we took over the government invested in municipalities and county councils. It is specifically targeted support for the school of as much as 10 billion. It is targeted support for the elderly's care of 2 billion. And now, in the last budget, it is specifically targeted support in the general state subsidies of as much as 10 billion. It is of course sad to see that the Moderates in their budget exercise do not live up to the overall effort we are making on the municipalities.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-225	Mr President, I would like to That there were 360 000 more people in work increased municipal tax revenues. There were 360 000 more in jobs despite the financial crisis and recession. Then I have to say that there is a surprisingly big difference between the figures that the Ministry of Finance has and the others, so this one will have to dig deeper into – I see that the Minister of Finance is nodding; that is positive. An increasing number of people and an increasing proportion of the employed in Sweden are working in the publicly funded welfare sector, largely due to an increasing number of the employed working in private welfare companies. Perhaps the government should also think about this, given the report on welfare gains presented this week. It is an investigation that frightens for many different reasons, not only because employees are risking jobs and that customers, users, students and patients in these companies are affected but, above all, because it means that efficiency should not be rewarded. Delivering the same or better quality should be penalised if at the same time it means lower costs. In a situation where we face challenges in terms of how we can finance the welfare of the future, it is extremely unfortunate. We have seen the results of an election this week following an unusually dirty election campaign. I myself drew attention to the word fact-resistant, which was used to describe how one candidate in particular more or less carefully handled the facts. It is my hope that we in Sweden will avoid this development. I hope that we can be without ministers who not only political angles of message – it belongs to some extent to our roles as politicians – but also consciously assert untruths. I note: during the time of the Alliance, both tax revenues increased to welfare and the number of employed persons who did that work. This means that the alliance government gave priority to welfare. With this, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-231	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of fact resistance: Anette Åkesson questions the fact that during the previous term the Moderates' very large tax cuts went out on welfare. Unfortunately, however, this is the case: if tax is reduced, of course, the possibility of investing in our common society will be reduced. Then resources will be lost to health care, school and care. The Swedish model is being eroded. The moderate-led government consistently chose to lower the tax rather than invest in welfare. You reduced the tax by SEK 140 billion. That's how you set your priorities for eight years in power. We have seen the result of the policy: excessive unemployment and a deterioration in welfare. When you lowered the tax, you didn't just take resources from the welfare here and now. You also dug big holes in government finances. You left behind your large budget deficits that reduce the ability of future generations to invest. You left behind a debt that future generations will pay. In addition, you introduced a pensioner's tax that makes pensioners pay higher taxes than those who work. You take from those who have built Sweden strong. The biggest investment the Moderates make in this budget is on an additional job tax deduction of SEK 9 billion. The biggest investment the government makes is 10 billion to welfare. Our view is that it is not additional job tax deductions that will build Sweden strong. We need more employees in healthcare, school and care in order to strengthen the Swedish model and build Sweden strongly for the future.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-235	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and Minister for Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-238	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Finance. The government bears responsibility for the investigation that was presented last week about the so-called 3:12 rules. It proposes substantially increased taxes on Sweden's job creators, the small and medium-sized enterprises that create four out of five new jobs. Our future well-being is based on those very jobs. Our future well-being, our security, our school and our preschool are based on the growth of jobs.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-241	Mr President, I would like to At the moment, many jobs are being created in Sweden. 120 000 new jobs have been created since the government took office. This is important and a success for government policy. As Maria Stenergard said, the government received a report last week on the taxation of so-called 3:12 companies. The study proposes a number of tightening up of taxation, but also some tax reliefs in relation to the current rules on restrictions, which are not particularly appreciated by industry. We will now send these proposals for a referral. We will, of course, look at and carefully analyse the views of the consultation bodies and then return to Parliament with proposals.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-244	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. It is not the relief that all the entrepreneurs who have been in contact with me with great concern over the last week have pointed out, but it is the 5 billion in tax increases that they have pointed out. The investigation has acted in full compliance with the additional directives laid down by the government when it took office, i.e.: Increase the tax! Our future security is founded by people at work and a responsible policy. Don't punish those who create the jobs!
i-ee7e500e256a291b-247	Mr President, I would like to I note that I have heard the Moderates say similar things very many times over the last two years, that the government's tax changes will undermine opportunities for jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden. That's why I was a little surprised when I read the Moderate Budget Movement this year. It turned out that you have in fact accepted in principle all the tax increases that the government has proposed and that you have spent hours and hours in this speaker's room to talk about how bad they are. Now you think it's great politics. I suppose you'll enjoy this, too, eventually.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-250	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Mr Bah Kuhnke, Minister for Culture and Democracy. Today's media landscape faces major challenges. Therefore, it was good that the government appointed the Media investigation that has now been presented. Two of the challenges we need to address are, firstly, the need for local media presence. It is necessary for us as citizens to be able to follow and influence what is happening around us. When this is lacking, the distance between politicians and citizens often increases. Apathy is increasing, and what follows is often a mourning where rumors and hatreds easily flourish. Secondly, publicist diversity is required. Reality, or the truth, is multiple-headed and must be allowed to be. It enriches our country. When this diversity dies or disappears, the Sweden that we love and know eventually fades. Sweden needs more local journalism, not less. We need journalists to look at what we are doing, to follow the news reports and to follow the rules of the press. My question is: how does the Minister believe that these fundamental values, i.e. publicist diversity and local media presence, can be strengthened?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-256	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question of how to secure the publicist diversity and secure local journalism! It is two of the central issues in the Media investigation that the government received a few days ago. Investigator Annette Novak's mission was, simply put, precisely about this: How do we ensure that local journalism and journalism in general can carry out their democratic mission? We have seen in recent years how thousands of journalists have left the profession and how the media, not least the paper magazines, are becoming increasingly difficult to manage. Culture pages and entire cultural annexes are being dismantled, and entire newspapers are being shut down. The proposals that we have received, and which we are currently reading at the Ministry, we see so far are proposals that will be able to create better conditions for local journalism and for diversity.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-259	Mr President, I would like to That sounds very promising. We look forward to these talks with the government on how this can be handled, because it is extremely important, in addition to local journalism, to really protect the publicist diversity around the country.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-260	Mr President, I would like to Yes, and it will be a delicate task. I hope that many here in the Swedish Parliament, all parties, are prepared for the tough discussions we need to take. The pre-support that exists today was developed in the 1970s. Digital competition was not so great then. Nor were Facebook and Google who have really eaten into and taken the entire advertising market, which is one of the major reasons why the industry has so difficult to make ends meet.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-263	Mr President, I would like to My question to Foreign Minister Wallström concerns a newly elected President. It is a President who not only acts extremely provocative and populist, but has also made a whole series of highly controversial statements – a President who, since his admission this summer, has killed several thousand people. Clearly, President Duterte does not shun any means whatsoever in the war on drugs. Here it is most reasonable to talk about the use of extrajudicial executions. In this context, Sweden opened an embassy in Manilla the day before yesterday. At the same time, a Swedish defence group established an office in the Philippines. At the opening ceremony, however, Minister Damberg highlighted not only cooperation on entrepreneurship but also on gender equality and human rights. How does the government intend to prioritise work on human rights and the rule of law in a country where a newly elected, unpredictable president does not seem to evade any means whatsoever and where Sweden now has very large commercial interests?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-266	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Sweden currently has diplomatic missions in 93 countries. The Philippines, with 100 million inhabitants, is the largest country where Sweden has long lacked representation. So it was with joy that we were once again able to open an embassy in the Philippines. This gives us the opportunity to broaden our contact with society as a whole. In addition, the Philippines is an important export market. By being in place, we can better monitor developments. We can engage in a completely different way and, as we do in many parts of the world, of course also monitor the situation in terms of democracy and human rights.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-268	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. International relations are central, because the Philippines is an extremely important country. It is absolutely not wrong that we increase our presence – quite the contrary. What I am saying is that the openings that now appear to exist about cooperation in the Philippines will once again put a foreign policy that claims to be feminist in the face of very difficult balances. That is why I want to know how the government prioritises its new cooperation.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-269	Mr President, I would like to On this issue, we must, above all, work through the European Union. I regret that it has taken so long for the EU countries to have a common position. I expect us to come very soon to a common position where we can clearly mark human rights, extra-judicial executions and all that we have seen happening in the Philippines. We are pushing for this to happen, because we will have much more power if we act together.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-271	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. The government continues to engage in one of the most sustainable industries in the country: forestry. The Government's autumn budget for expenditure area 17 Culture, media and more states on p. 45:中 All sectors that use land and water shall take into account the values of outdoor life as part of sustainable use. ..................................................... The Government also wants to strengthen public participation in nature conservation work, including environmental protection. through access to environmental information, participation in decision-making processes and access to justice. ..................................................... My question is this: does the Minister for Rural Development not see a conflict between the fact that he and the Prime Minister, among others, have given fine talks on the possibilities of the bioeconomy and that other parts of the government and authorities under the government seem to be busy undermining the use and ownership of forestry?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-276	Mr President, I would like to The forest is a great asset for Sweden. We are one of the most forested countries in Europe. The Government works with forestry in a forward-looking way, including in the national forestry programme. The questioner refers to a text contained in the budget proposal for 2017 and also in the budget proposal for 2016. It is a general text that is also linked to an international UN convention to which Sweden acceded in the early 2000s. It really has nothing to do with the investigation that is now being carried out on the Forest Protection Act.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-278	Mr President, I would like to Irrespective of what the Minister for Rural Development says in this speaker's chair, one might ask whether the government has a common line or not. The government continues to trample on this path with a series of anti-rural decisions and with what seems to forest owners to be a slow collectivisation of individual forest ownership and a subjugation of the right to use. You could call it a modern form of bagböleri or environmental böleri. In this case, it is precisely public use of private forest owners' individual property.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-281	Mr President, I would like to Forests have two equal objectives: environment and production. These objectives protect the government. We are also working on these equal goals in the national forestry programme. It is also about developing new products from the forest, which we have every opportunity to do in Sweden. The government's strategy includes that we will be the first country in the world without fossil fuels, and the forest is of enormous importance for us to achieve that goal.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-284	Mr President, I would like to The voters of the United States have made their choice. Many of us would certainly have liked to see another outcome, but the choice is made and should be respected. We have before us a period in which the electoral promises are to be concrete and statements made during the parliamentary term are formulated in reform proposals. It is particularly important for Sweden to follow these developments closely, for the USA is very important for Sweden. It is about trade, business, consumers and jobs. It is about prosperity and climate and security, both globally and in the Baltic Sea region, where Russia's recent actions have increased tensions. My question to the Foreign Minister is not confrontatory but rather constructive. What does the government intend to do to maintain cooperation and dialogue on issues where Sweden and the US have strong common interests globally and in terms of security and stability in the Baltic Sea region and our neighbourhood?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-287	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we are prepared for the outcome of this election. We've been thinking about what happens if one or the other candidate wins. We are in the situation that we have had excellent and close cooperation with the United States for a long time, and this cooperation has deepened. We have seen a great interest in the Nordic model. We are still signaling that we want to cooperate with the United States. We will do so in the Security Council, and we will do so bilaterally and in all multilateral fora. We are closely following developments. Although we are concerned, it is only when it is translated into practical action and policy that Trump is tried as President. We are also trying to influence as early as possible by expressing our views and positions constructively. We are currently in the process of doing so.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-292	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your reply and welcome the Government's intention to make early contact with the new administration when it takes office. I also welcome the fact that, in his comments, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has highlighted the situation in terms of security and security in the Baltic Sea region and our neighbourhood. The Government Declaration, which the Prime Minister read out in the House in September, said that the transatlantic link, that is, the contact between Sweden, Europe and the United States, would be strengthened. My question, therefore, is this: can the Foreign Minister concretise how this transatlantic link should be prioritised in the future?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-296	Mr President, I would like to It is through our diplomatic and political contacts that we can do this and by signaling at an early stage that we wish to stick to the agreements we have signed with the United States on, among other things, defence cooperation. Of course, we also wish to ensure that these issues remain in focus through the Security Council. It remains to be seen which people we will be able to contact. It is far from clear who will take over important tasks in Trumps's administration. However, this is what we can do for the day.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-300	Mr President, I would like to My question is also about the elections and the results of the elections in the United States or rather about the after-game. It is aimed at the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Yesterday's results have certainly affected us all in one way or another. It is not just about the electoral promises, but about what the election movement and the after-game bring. There has been a polarization in American society that makes me and many others worried. I am also concerned that this could spill over on Sweden and the rest of the world.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-303	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. I believe that many of us have been asking this question for a long time, not least because of all the hatred expressed in the election campaign and the level of the debate. It is clear that we have had to work together for a long time. That's why the Prime Minister from day one has been clear that we are working on a community building. We invest a lot of politics and a lot of billions for a Sweden that sticks together. Media policy plays a major role here, and local journalism is self-evident. We also need to ensure that people know trust in our systems, in our authorities, in their municipalities and administrations and in the administration as a whole. This means that everything we do in the government, such as Ardalan Shekarabis's work on the public and how we strategically and clearly work with moving out authorities, is important.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-307	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The government runs a community building for a Sweden that holds together. What role do you see in this community building? You mentioned local journalism, but what role do you have as Minister for Democracy to ensure that Sweden stays together?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-309	Mr President, I would like to Democracy policy is at the heart of this work, and it is reflected in the budget proposals that have been presented and which we will present. Mid-election policy is about creating meeting places. We are investing in civil society in a way that no government has done for a long time in our country. People should be able to meet and unite. For example, you should be able to get a place in a room to work from. This has been highlighted by the civil society organisation as one of the biggest problems, but now we are increasing the opportunities through the large budget contribution of 20 million to Boverket. It'll make room for a lot of people.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-312	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Bucht my question. It is about the bill on wild boar and game feeding that the Government recently handed over to the Riksdag. The bill comes from the alliance government's appointed hunting team investigation and highlights the problems that exist in Sweden today with uncontrolled feeding, which is taking place mainly in southern Sweden. Farming, homeowners and municipalities are all affected by the rampage of wild boars, but feeding is not the only problem when it comes to an uncontrolled tribe. There are also too few wild boars. Unfortunately, the bill was so quickly written together that the majority in this House chose to send it back to the minister to do it again and do it right. However, the problems with boars remain, and I wonder: when does the Minister intend to come back to the House with a new bill?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-315	Mr President, I would like to Feeding of game, mainly wild boar and deer, has become more common in our country and is a growing problem. This creates major problems, not least for Swedish agriculture, which loses an enormous amount of money because it happens. It is also about a feeding that is not done properly and which causes road traffic damage. It was a great pity that the Alliance, together with the Swedish Democrats, rejected the bill, because with it it had really been able to take hold of the problems and get rid of the feeding that is not good for agriculture or for forestry. This is not a total ban. Now we have an announcement from the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. Let's look at it and prepare the case.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-318	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister intends to come back to the House, but I am a little worried when he is unable to give any information about when it will happen. We know from the past that the Minister and his government tend to drag things out so that they will never come to decisions in this House. We do not make decisions in this House that are not complete and well prepared. The proposal that was submitted was not sufficient, and therefore a majority in the Swedish parliament chose to send it back to the minister to do it again and to do it right. We must distinguish between feeding and bait, and today we do not. That is why I ask the question again: when does the Minister intend to come back?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-321	Mr President, I would like to What is now happening through the announcement is that there are major negative consequences for our agriculture and our food production. The bourgeois reservation that exists completely lacks an impact assessment. This cannot be achieved by less than making a very comprehensive addition. The government will now consider how to deal with the announcement.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-323	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. This week, a proposal has been put forward to resolve the existing under-taxation of the financial sector because its activities are exempt from VAT. The four major banks Handelsbanken, SEB, Nordea and Swedbank received significant tax advantages as corporate tax was reduced in two rounds by former bourgeois governments. Simply put, Anders Borg took the money from our old and children and gave it to the banks' shareholders. Now the government wants to return money from the banks to the children, and that is, of course, a good thing. However, my question is this: can the reform be made more accurate and proportionate in that it is directed more towards the big banks so that local savings banks that do not have the same profit margins can have a better outcome?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-327	Mr President, I would like to We see, as Maria Strömkvist pointed out, that the big banks are making huge profits today – SEK 80 billion. My predecessor often barked at the banks. Instead, I try to tax them. We set up the study to come up with a proposal on how to reduce the tax advantage that the financial sector has today because it does not pay VAT. Now we have just received the proposal, and we will send it out for a referral. Then we will read through the referrals and carefully analyse the proposal and see what modifications may need to be made before a proposal can be submitted to Parliament.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-329	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is good that the consultation bodies have their say. Can other measures be envisaged against the big banks, such as additional restrictions on their bonus schemes?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-331	Mr President, I would like to In addition to the proposal that has now been put on the government's table, we have also proposed in the budget proposal a stricter taxation of banks via the somewhat complicated concept of subordinated loans. That's where we raise taxes for the banks. We think it is important for the banks to have the opportunity to contribute a little more to welfare. We think that we need a little less money from the banks and a little more money from the children.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-333	Mr President, I would like to I turn to the Minister for Rural Affairs Bucht. This year's budget proposal addresses forestry issues in several areas of expenditure, including Category 17 Culture, the media, religious communities and leisure. It is with some surprise that I read that the government has a clear wording when it comes to Swedish forestry. The writing means that the Government believes that everyone should have the right to appeal a simple logging notification for each individual user, which hits hard on forest owners and the future of Swedish forestry. It is important that there is a regulatory framework that both the government and the industry can relate to. This framework means that the issues relating to industrial policy are dealt with under the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-337	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, the wording has been in the budget bill for 2017 during the open air policy at the Ministry of Culture. But it was also included in 2016. Congratulations, Center Party, on discovering it after just over a year! As I said before, it is also linked to the UN Convention on these issues. This is not new. Sweden already acceded to the Convention in the early 2000s. On the basis of the Convention, we have looked at various areas over time, including legal processes in the search for wolves and the environmental code. The legal processes that the Skogsvårdstyrelsen is looking at now do not really have anything to do with what has now stood twice in the budget bill.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-339	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I'm getting an answer to the question. I am aware that the issue has been dealt with in several places in the budget, and that is why I raised it in my question. But for some time now, questions have been asked to the Ministry of Culture about the situation. The Ministry refers to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which only responds via text messages. It'll be very confusing for the forest owners. What does the Minister for Rural Development think this will mean for the individual forest owner?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-342	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Per Åsling and the Center Party, I am convinced that forest owners in Sweden know that forestry issues are handled by the Minister for Rural Development at the Ministry of Industry. There is no doubt about it.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-343	Mr President, I would like to On Monday, the media investigation was handed over. A whole industry has read the proposals with anticipation and enthusiasm and has also followed the debate that has been and is still ongoing. The Minister for Culture and Democracy! From the point of view of freedom of expression, what is the Minister's position on the proposals to have criteria based on discretion in order to obtain support for his publications? How do we ensure that it is not the industry group, the friends of the Media Support Board, that is supported and that new and alternative players are excluded in order to avoid competition? And how do we ensure that the Board of Support does not exclude certain views from the political discussion through biased contributions?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-345	Mr President, I would like to I thank Angelika Bengtsson for the question. It is important that we now discuss the Media investigation and the proposal for new media support that has been presented. Hopefully we will soon leave a pre-support that was developed in the 1970s. Our local newspapers and media in general need and deserve new and modern media support. I haven't had time to read all the suggestions so if I received Monday – 600 pages. Perhaps Angelika Bengtsson has. However, these proposals will now be discussed and referred to. I hope that we will have a broad and fruitful discussion. One of the proposals is sensitive and has been debated for a long time and is about democracy criteria. As a libertarian, I see the great difficulties with that. I am very keen that it is not we politicians who are to say who is to receive what support. That is why I welcome the discussion on the appointment of a Media Support Committee – where the industry, the experts, sit – as if this were to happen to make this assessment. That is what we are now going to discuss. I hope that many people want to be involved in this debate, because this is a big and very difficult task.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-348	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the answers and welcome the fact that she wants a broad political agreement. It really deserves the industry. But what proposals from the investigation does the Minister think we can initially expect to be political proposals from the government? And what proposals does the Minister think will be good tools to ensure a wider diversity of views in an increasingly narrowing opinion corridor and in a polarised climate of debate?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-350	Mr President, I would like to I think it would be extremely unwise for me to say today, just a few days after I have had an investigation in my hand and have not even read it, what proposals I or the government should make. We want to discuss these proposals with all democratic parties in this House and we want to listen to the consultation bodies. But I think there are several good proposals in the investigation, and I know that we will be able to conduct a good and decisive policy on the Swedish media and local journalism.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-351	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena An dersson. The financial sector is important for Sweden's economic well-being. It employs 85 000 people in 5 000 companies. According to the Government, the financial companies are under-taxed, and it therefore initiates a duty in good faith to introduce a tax to offset the tax advantage that the industry is deemed to have. In what way does the Government believe that the proposed tax will help to create new jobs in the financial sector, attract financial firms from London, discourage the relocation of businesses abroad and strengthen financial services mainly in rural areas?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-353	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and the other bourgeois parties have, in the economic guidelines they put together, a proposal for a financial tax. I believe in about the same thing. Then I do not know exactly what form of tax the Moderates propose. But there are at least two bourgeois parties that have similar proposals in their budget movements, and those proposals are in line with what the investigation has proposed. The government has now received this investigation on its table and will send it out for a referral. I will, of course, read with great interest the views of the various consultation bodies on the pros and cons of the precise design of the tax. Then we will take a stand. But the Government's ambition is clear, namely that we believe that the tax advantage that exists in the financial sector should be reduced so that we can thus increase tax revenues, so that we can ensure a secure and good welfare for everyone who lives in Sweden.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-355	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. In view of the fact that taxes are sometimes justified and sometimes not justified and that the thinking goes in this direction, I would like the tax not to be a concern, so that employees lose their jobs and that their children and families are affected, but that we should take the chance when we in London start thinking about deploying companies to other countries and attracting them to Stockholm, etc.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-356	Mr President, I would like to After two years as Minister of Finance, I have learned one thing: that Moderates are very concerned about taxes and tax changes before they are implemented. Once the government has implemented them, they think it is an excellent policy. However, this is a tax that the Moderates, even before it has been implemented, have been quite interested in introducing. Therefore, when we come up with a proposal, I believe that there will be broad support in Parliament for it. I believe that there are more than social democrats and environmentalists who think that the banks can contribute a little more to our common welfare.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-358	Sweden's action to establish protected zones
i-ee7e500e256a291b-359	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-360	The liberation of the area from the Islamic State, IS, is ongoing and is successful. After two years of silence, church bells begin to ring in the liberated Christian villages and cities of the plain of Nineves. A protected zone for Christian communities in the plain of Nineves, supported by the European Parliament, is the only option for the return of Christian refugees and the only way to guarantee their future security. Calls on the EEAS, the Member States and the international community to actively support the resolution; Sweden has been elected to the UN Security Council, and the question is: In what way will Sweden actively work for Syrians, Chaldeans, Assyrians and others to have a protected zone on the Nineves plain?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-364	Mr President, I would like to I share Robert Halef's great concern about the situation of Christians and other minorities both in Syria and in Iraq. We have discussed this repeatedly here in Parliament too. Christians and other groups are severely affected by Daish's ravages and brutality. There is no doubt that very serious international war crimes are committed. Together in the United Nations, we have a responsibility to work to ensure that people in danger are protected, that we end the conflict quickly and that those responsible are held accountable. This responsibility applies regardless of how you categorise it. We must now work for it. We must put an end to these wars and conflicts. We must ensure that those responsible are held accountable. We must use the International Criminal Court for this and, of course, continue to discuss this in the UN and in a European context.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-367	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Christian communities and other ethnic minorities have been severely affected by Islamic terrorist organisations such as IS. It has been confirmed that there is genocide against these groups. A protected zone on the plain of Nineves is the salvation of Christendom in Iraq. The Iraqi Constitution admits this. The question is: how will the Minister for Foreign Affairs act bilaterally with the Iraqi and Kurdish regional government and work towards the establishment of these protected zones?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-369	Mr President, I would like to We continue to act on three tracks. Firstly, we are doing this humanitarianly and ensuring that the victims and the very vulnerable are helped. Secondly, we do it politically and ensure that we support a political solution both in Syria and in Iraq. Thirdly, in fact, we are also contributing militarily. It is above all a question of support for the Peshmergan in Iraq. We also continue to address these issues in the UN context, and we argue that humanitarian access should be granted in order to establish what it looks like for Christians and other minorities who are going very badly in today's wars and conflicts.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-370	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister for Finance a question. Sports clubs and sportspeople are market-valued by their federations, and the market value limits the right to deduct sponsorship to law or individuals. In the Tax Agency's guidelines, the company's right to deduct may link the sponsorship to the market value. The guidelines thus disadvantage companies wishing to sponsor women's sport, which generally have a lower market value. This has affected Eskilstuna football team Eskilstuna United, which is successful in damallsvenskan. The team is in danger of losing sponsor money because of the current system. The system reinforces structures in sport where ladies and gentlemen are treated differently. Does the Minister of Finance consider it reasonable that the right of deduction for sponsorship is based on a law's market valuation?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-373	Mr President, I would like to This is a question I have not encountered before, and I am very happy that Lotta Finstorp brings it up. Equal opportunities for men and women in sport are important. I can understand that the legislation looks like this, but I do not believe that we have wanted this consistency of legislation. I welcome the fact that Lotta Finstorp is raising the issue, and I will go back to the Ministry of Finance and ask my officials to take a closer look at it.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. What happens is that it is counted as a grant if a company wants to sponsor a women's team and the amount exceeds the market value of the association, and then it will not be deductible. So I am really looking forward to the Minister of Finance taking up the question and coming back later, perhaps with an answer.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-375	Mr President, I would like to It's fun when you get to be in Parliament and get new questions up on the agenda and radar. For this government, it is important to have equal conditions for women and men in all different activities in Sweden.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-376	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. On 3 October 2014, the Prime Minister read the Government Declaration and spoke about the importance of culture. He said that every child should have the right to practice culture, and he said, "That's why children and young people should have better opportunities and lower fees to participate in sports, outdoor activities and cultural and music school." A national strategy for the cultural and music school is developed. Now the investigation is finally here-- I have it in my hand-- and we're really happy about that. The Swedish School of Culture and Music has had great success. Many children have had the opportunity to develop through music, art and dance. Many have also, based on the music school, become great artists and gained international success. However, we are concerned about the development of the cultural and music school – today many children are unable to participate for economic reasons. In light of the investigation, how does the government view the future development of the cultural and music school?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-380	Mr President, I would like to Culture School – this fantastic municipal activity that exists in most parts of our country! There are a few municipalities that do not have a cultural school. Now, for the first time, in this particular investigation, we get black and white that there are great injustices. It turns out that it is the children of the middle class and upper middle class who have the opportunity to attend cultural school. It also turns out that there are great challenges for the future when it comes to the supply of teachers, for example, and in a row we get black and white that we need a national strategy if we protect the cultural school and really want to take on board what Max Martin said to me a year ago when I sat next to him for a dinner. I asked him: What is the single biggest reason for your success? He replied immediately: Culture School. And that's what every world artist we have says. If we are looking for more people to benefit from this amazing, we need to have a national strategy, and we are working on it right now.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-383	Mr President, I would like to I share that joy – absolutely. I believe that this is an important challenge for the future for us, and it is an important cornerstone of Sweden's cultural life. I find it worrying that we have such a great inequality in the cultural and music school today; there are fees of everything from SEK 1 710 per semester – plus supplement for instrument rent – to nothing, in the municipalities that work free of charge. Now I quote directly from the inquiry: a certain connection seems to exist between the political majority in the municipal council and the level of fees where the highest fees are found in municipalities with a bourgeois majority and the lowest in municipalities with a red-green majority. That's very interesting.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-385	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there are great differences. This government does not want those differences, but we want all children to have the chance to stand on stage and try their wings playing an instrument. Therefore, we are currently investing SEK 100 million per year in the cultural school. They go to lower fees, buy in more instruments or develop teachers. Now that we got the investigation in our hand a few weeks ago, we will also do even more, and this will be very good.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-387	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Finance. Sweden's future economic development depends on Swedish citizens having the courage to start, run and develop companies. Many companies that are involved in driving Sweden's economy forward are small companies that are dependent on an active owner. According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, many of Sweden's entrepreneurs are disproportionately close to retirement age, i.e. between 55 and 64 years old. I conclude that we therefore need more young entrepreneurs. Access to venture capital is often crucial for the realisation of new business ideas. In addition, the large risks involved for the individual entrepreneur, in the event of failure of the company, are involved. It's the representative responsibility I'm talking about. What I would like to ask the Minister for Finance is whether the government is prepared to facilitate access to venture capital specifically targeted at young people's entrepreneurship and whether it is prepared to review, through a review of representative responsibility, the major risks involved in running businesses.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-390	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic entrepreneurial nation. So many of the amazing innovations of the new technology come from Sweden, such as Skype, Spotify and many of the games we have in our phones. This shows the strength and driving force of the Swedish economy and entrepreneurship. Of course, the government believes it is important to continue to strengthen entrepreneurship and innovation capacity in Sweden, and then we obviously need to work broadly – all the way from having more innovation in school to ensuring that there is good venture capital and good opportunities for companies to grow and also export. We work in all these different sectors to further strengthen Swedish entrepreneurship and innovation capacity.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-392	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Finance therefore shares my view that we need to ensure that young entrepreneurs can actually start and run businesses. I think we do it very well in primary and secondary schools, where we encourage students to be entrepreneurs and to feel that they can start their own business. However, there is also a need to review the risks involved. I believe that representative responsibility and venture capital opportunities need to be reviewed in order for us to achieve this in the longer term. There are too many companies owned by older people; we must have more with younger owners.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-393	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that there are many older owners of companies, but I would also like to see more younger owners of companies. We need entrepreneurs of many different ages and generations. I think we share that view. I also share Larry Söder's view that it is extremely important to work with innovations in school. It is also important that there is risk capital, and the government has redeployed state venture capital precisely in order for it to be used more effectively than in the time of the alliance government.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-395	Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. It has now been about 24 hours since the United States elected a new president, and there are, of course, many questions about this. What will this mean for Sweden? What will that mean for the world? What will that mean for Europe? According to information – and the Foreign Minister confirmed this earlier during Question Time – the Government Office has analysed how Sweden will be affected by Donald Trumps's election victory. Different departments must have been involved. The Foreign Minister said, in a free interpretation: We have prepared for all eventualities. My questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs are of course: what does the analysis contain? What is the most important conclusion for Sweden that the United States will now have a new President who is completely untested? What is the most important recommendation – what should Sweden prioritise in this new time?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-398	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Karin Enström! It is important that we discuss this with the opposition. No later than this morning, the Secretary-General of the Foreign Affairs Committee was in charge of informing us in a first situation, and we will of course continue to talk to the Foreign Affairs Committee. I myself will soon be there so that we can think together about how to meet the policy that we hope will be put in place by Trumps. It has been about looking at areas that are important for Sweden, such as trade policy and security policy, and identifying what issues we want to pursue in the first stage. Above all, it has been about the valuation base on which we should act from now on. It is not possible to say that there is a single message; it is about what subjects we are dealing with. It will, of course, be even sharper when we see how he intends to churn out his policy and what appointments he makes as new president.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-400	Mr President, I would like to I was, of course, present at the time of the information this morning. If it had been information and we had been given this analysis, I might not have had to stand in the Chamber and ask the question. I really think it is essential, more than ever, that we, as a small country, seek common understanding and unity on how best to protect Sweden's interests in this troubled world. I'm therefore looking forward to hearing this analysis, and I hope it's not secret- and the plans for the government to solve this.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-401	Mr President, I would like to Of course we'll talk further. It is only now that we know the outcome of the elections, if we even know it in detail. It is also now that the new President is going to move from words to action, which of course will guide much of how we should react when this is to be translated into practical political action. Every government has a responsibility to be as well prepared as possible. Of course, all we can share will be shared. I appreciate the dialogue we have had and look forward to the one we will continue to have.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-403	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Finance. The former bourgeois government broke up income taxation and created deeply unjust tax gaps between different types of earned income. The Moderates believed that pensions were benefits — not deferred wages — and punished pensioners. In this way the so-called poor pensioners were created. The government's proposal to reduce the tax gap as early as 2015 was hindered by the Swedish Democrats betraying pensioners and supporting the bourgeois draft budget. On 1 January 2016, the pensioner's tax was abolished for all income up to SEK 10 000 per month. My question to the Minister for Finance is: can we expect new steps in the abolition of pensioner tax?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-405	Mr President, I would like to The pensioner tax is a very strange creation. The former alliance government felt that pensioners – who have worked and worked their whole lives and who have built up the Sweden that we are all so proud of – should pay higher taxes than employees. This is a strange construction – on the same income pensioners pay higher taxes than employees. On the part of the Social Democrats, we have always felt that this has been very wrong. Of course, pensioners, who have built up Sweden, should not be punished with higher taxes. That is why we went to elections to reduce and eliminate this tax gap. The first thing we did when we entered the Government Office, in the first budget, was to take a first step. Unfortunately, this was stopped by the Swedish Democrats, as Jamal El-Haj-Haj said. This was a betrayal of pensioners from the Swedish Democrats, whom I do not believe Swedish pensioners will ever forget.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-408	Mr President, I would like to Early retirement and long-term illness are often under pressure from the economy. They are the ones who today have the highest tax. Can the Minister of Finance envisage reducing this tax gap?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-409	Mr President, I would like to The step in reduced pensioner tax that we got through in 2016, a year delayed due to the Swedish Democrats, means that we close the tax gap on pensions up to SEK 10 000. But this is a first step – we want to take further steps to remove this tax gap between pensioners and ordinary employees. In addition, it is important to work for those groups that have the smallest economic margins. Therefore, the sickness and activity benefit will be increased from 1 January 2017. This is a government that wants to increase justice in Sweden.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-411	Mr President, I would like to Time passes quickly when you have fun, and so when you broadcast public service. Public service is something that is constantly being discussed, which is both important and positive. We are in the middle of the current broadcasting period for our public service broadcasters, and it is more than high time to discuss the terms for the next period, starting in 2020. It is also time for a mid-term review of the current broadcasting licence. In 2015, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, in broad agreement, made a clear announcement that a cross-border and parliamentary joint investigation of the radio and television fee should be carried out in good time for the next permit period. This announcement was again lifted by the committee last winter, and we pointed out at the time that half-time was approaching by leaps and bounds. Now that point has passed. When does the Minister of Culture intend to take the initiative for this investigation to be in place? How does the Minister of Culture envisage how the new broadcasting agreements are to be worked out? And what happens to the mid-term reconciliation?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-414	Mr President, I would like to I thank Olof Lavesson, chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, for his commitment to these issues. Public service is a key factor in our democracy. A recent investigation revealed the importance of strong and independent public service in democracy. Public service also has an impact on all other free media, of course. This week there has been a letter of meeting between the management of the public service companies and the ministry. This meeting shall take place on 8 February 2017. The mid-term review is under way. In addition, half-time is soon – we are not really there yet. So the mid-term review is on the way, and I look forward to it. It's one of three major investigations that are scheduled to take place. The third and last is the major investigation for the next broadcasting permit.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-418	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the words, well in advance, cannot be stressed enough. Long-term and stable funding is one of the pillars of independent public broadcasting. I fear that the Minister for Culture sometimes underestimates the complexity of both the substance of the issue and the parliamentary process. Only the important issue of technology neutrality is worth an investigation in itself, and we do not know what legislation may need to be changed. It takes time. When will this start, Minister of Culture?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-420	Mr President, I would like to It's, like I said, coming up. The invitation has been sent out, and on 8 February we have the first big meeting. Yes, it will take time, but there is still plenty of time. It also requires a great deal of commitment from all parties, not least from the Committee on Culture and the Moderates. I am extremely grateful for the commitment, and I look forward to the fact that with Olof Lavesson's commitment and intellect we will be able to carry out all three of these investigations and contribute to stable and independent public service.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-423	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. In 2010, the construction and maintenance contract was signed for the hospital Nya Karolinska Solna. The contract is worth SEK 52 billion. It is Sweden's largest construction agreement so far, and we have a large number of additional agreements. Recently, the Swedish Tax Agency failed to finance New Karolinska Solna. According to the Swedish Tax Agency, Swedish Hospital Partners Holding – SHP, the project company that builds New Karolinska in Sweden's largest construction project – used a so-called interest rate spin to withhold millions from taxation via Luxembourg. The project company denies tax planning and believes that Stockholm County Council knew about the arrangement. This has then been reviewed – among other things, Svenska Dagbladet has had a long series of articles on the issue. Now the Social Democratic opposition in the county council has demanded an external audit, which the majority of the county council has supported. Against this background, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance if she believes that Swedish county councils and municipalities should do business with companies that use aggressive tax planning to bring their profits to tax havens, as Stockholm County Council has done in relation to New Karolinska.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-427	Mr President, I would like to Serkan Köse raises an important issue about Stockholm's moderate county management's total mismanagement of the county economy. Time and again, we see the Moderates in Stockholm County Council sloppy with taxpayers' money. This risks undermining not only confidence in health care but also the legitimacy of the entire tax system. In the end, Stockholmers in need of medical care are at risk. This is not just a matter for the Moderates in Stockholm County Council, but it undermines the credibility of the entire Moderate economic policy. An external audit is therefore important. Of course, if you have done something wrong, you must correct it. This will be reviewed by the Swedish Tax Agency and another external reviewer. I find it very doubtful that a municipal company that works with municipalities and county councils uses aggressive tax planning.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-431	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. Tax planning with the help of interest rate spinners has been a well-known problem in Sweden due to gaps in the law. Since 2013, there has been a law that will stop internal interest rates with interest rates. However, we see that tax money still continues to drain out of the hands of the Tax Agency to tax havens, including Luxembourg. From this project, which will run until 2030, SEK 1.3 billion will be paid out and channelled to Luxembourg. My supplementary question to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is: what does she intend to do to stop our tax money from going to Luxembourg?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-433	Mr President, I would like to This tax scheme will now be reviewed by the Swedish Tax Agency, which will look at whether it is even legal. What concerns me in addition to this is, of course, the overall management of the Moderates in the Stockholm County Council and how they manage the economy. We have the whole of New Karolinska which has become very expensive. There is a risk of using non-legal aggressive tax planning. Seems like you haven't had your eye on the decision-making process. In addition, we have the sock gate where socks have been bought for 6 000 SEK each. This is totally unacceptable, and I hope, of course, that the voters will review the Moderates in the Stockholm County Council.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-435	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. For just over a year, we have border controls in Sweden. The background to this is that the refugee crisis is not over yet. There is a great deal of uncertainty, not least about what will happen with, for example, the Turkey Agreement. The Moderates' view is that both border and ID controls to Sweden should therefore continue to apply. Taking them away could put Sweden in a situation where once again we cannot accept the people who come here in a good way. Nor do we know who is coming into Sweden because the EU cannot secure its external border. These border controls expire tomorrow, Friday 11 November. We Moderates have been calling for a message for weeks. Will the checks be extended or not? I wonder if Magdalena Andersson can give a clear answer here and now. Has the government made such a decision?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-438	Mr President, I would like to The situation that prevailed last autumn, when it came up to 10 000 people a week to Sweden, was not sustainable. The government then took the responsibility required of it and made the necessary decisions. We also managed to cooperate widely in the Riksdag. We have had good cross-border cooperation to make the necessary decisions in this situation. It is a question of amending the legislation on asylum, and we have made changes in the area of temporary and permanent residence permits. In addition, we have the ID checks, which we have now extended, as well as the border controls. The government will return with information on what is happening to border controls. This issue will be discussed in the EU. Tomorrow, the Council will have discussions on whether to recommend whether or not border controls should be extended. The government will return with a message.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-441	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Finance's colleague spoke just now about the importance of working in good time. It can hardly be said that the government has worked well in advance on migration policy. I would therefore remind the Minister for Finance that border controls will expire tomorrow Friday. Still today, the day before, the government has made no decision. I find it very remarkable. Let me ask you a supplementary question: when does the government intend to take such a decision? If one further step is taken back: does the government believe that these border controls need to be extended?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-443	Mr President, I would like to The EU has not yet taken a formal decision to recommend that border controls be extended or not. This is an issue that will be discussed in the EU and in the relevant Council tomorrow. After that discussion, the government will come back with a message. This is currently being prepared in the Government Office. As far as lateness is concerned, I can recommend a well-known statement made by a prime minister like us only a few months before the refugee disaster.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-445	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. It is based on the rural development programme, the main aim of which, in my opinion, is to provide the conditions for profitable and viable businesses throughout the country. We have, for example, broadband initiatives. It is important that the decisions are in step. There is now an investigation that has made proposals to abolish the requirement for the overnight delivery of letters. If this decision is taken, it will have a greater impact on rural areas than on big cities. This has consequences for entrepreneurship in sparsely populated areas and not least in archipelago areas.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-448	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Tysklind, for an important issue that concerns Swedish countryside! Swedish countryside looks very different. There are rural areas close to the city, very sparsely populated areas and coastal rural areas. This is why the government has taken an important initiative by setting up, for the first time in Sweden, a parliamentary committee to look at a comprehensive rural policy. This has never been done before. The Committee submitted an interim report in March, and the final report will be presented in 2017. I am sure that this kind of question will be raised. In addition, the Government has taken several measures to prevent negative developments in Swedish rural areas. This applies not least to broadband. We go in with 4.1 billion to expand broadband in Swedish rural areas. So this is about 4 100 million.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-451	Mr President, I would like to As far as broadband investments are concerned, we fully agree that this is a very important area. Let me take a concrete example that the Swedish Association of Archipelago Islands has raised, namely the distribution of medicines. I assume that the Minister for Rural Development thinks it is very reasonable that the people of the archipelago should also receive safe mail so that you can get medicines within 24 hours. Do I understand the rural minister's right that it is the investigation into a coordinated rural policy that will decide the issue of postal transport?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-454	Mr President, I would like to Postal services and all services in rural areas are important. There the government has also taken the initiative. We go in with completely different money to support rural shops: 88 million in investment aid per year and 35 million in operating aid. The idea is to develop the shops into service points that can provide parcel delivery, postal service and delivery of medicine. This work has begun and is very important for Swedish rural areas.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-456	Mr President, I would like to My question about the TV fee is addressed to the Minister for Culture. We have just discussed the TV fee, but I would like to give the opportunity to further highlight it. A year ago, a united parliament decided to announce to the government just to review the TV fee and come up with a more modern one. The matter was prompted by a motion that I had tabled with three alliance partners. We proposed that a technology-neutral fee be set up and that the Swedish Tax Agency should be able to levy this levy alongside its budget. Technological developments have thus run away from the TV fee, which has existed since the 1950s. Can you interpret what the Minister of Culture told Olof Lavesson that this investigation is about to begin?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-459	Mr President, I would like to In the major challenges facing our entire democracy, public services are at the heart of a machine, on which we all agree. Ensuring independent and long-term financing of public services is a delicate and complex task. Of course, it is also crucial that there is confidence in the funding of public services and that people feel that they are paying for something that they want. The confidence in public service is very great, and it is actually the case that the payment model we have today works. This does not mean that we do not have to understand technological developments and their impact on consumption patterns. That's why we're here to investigate the matter. It will be investigated. I was asked whether this will happen shortly. The answer is that it will happen in good time. I would like to remind you that it took on average three years for the previous government to respond to announcements.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-461	Mr President, I would like to The Supreme Administrative Court decided on 30 June 2014 that Radiotjänst is not entitled to charge computers, mobile phones and tablets. Now conventional televisions are replaced by computers, mobile phones and tablets that can receive television broadcasts. In addition, we know that the operating cost of collecting the TV fee is quite high. Does the Minister of Culture have the ambition to present a proposal during his term of office?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-463	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Culture and Democracy has the ambition to work out good conditions for public service, and we will do so. We will deal with this issue not least together here in the Swedish Parliament. The financing model is, of course, absolutely central. We must also take account of technological developments. Everything will be done in good time and in a very solid way.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-465	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. Today's young people have no memory of living under a direct nuclear threat, but it feels like things are becoming different now with an increasingly uncertain world. We have several nuclear weapons that are in high alert, and if it is really unfortunate, any of them could be fired, knowingly or unintentionally. It is therefore extremely gratifying that Sweden has now voted in favour of the UN General Assembly for a process of establishing a legally binding ban on nuclear weapons. This is an extremely important step forward. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is how Sweden will act to ensure that there will be as substantial negotiations as possible next year, so that future generations will hopefully be able to experience a nuclear-free world sometime.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-468	Mr President, I would like to The use of nuclear weapons would have totally unacceptable and terrible consequences, and the situation not least in our neighbourhood makes nuclear disarmament more important than ever. We've been hearing crackers and threats of nuclear weapons use lately. That is why I was very proud to be able to give instructions that we should vote in favour of a process within the UN to start negotiations on a ban on nuclear weapons. This is the last weapon of mass destruction that has not yet been banned. Now these negotiations begin. We expect them to take a long time, but we want them to be open and inclusive. Ideally, we would like to see the active participation of the nuclear states as well. We want to see this complement the NTP agreement, which deals with nuclear non-proliferation. We will work actively to ensure that this happens.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-470	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister very much for his reply. A proposal for a ban such as the forthcoming one may look very different. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think is the most important thing that such a proposal should contain?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-471	Mr President, I would like to We believe that this will lead to a convention. It is important how this is designed, so that it really becomes inclusive and effective and that compliance is effective. It is really too early to go into some details, but we mean first of all that we should involve all the 123 countries that have supported this resolution in the work to ensure that there will be a process that is effective and inclusive in the future.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-472	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask Minister Bucht my question. It is about something that several previous questioners have raised and concerns Category 17 and the wording of the cultural budget that the government wants to strengthen public participation in nature conservation work, including through access to environmental information, participation in decision-making and access to justice. The government has tried to tone down these pieces, but it must surely mean something. The meaning is therefore that the government wants to give the public and organisations the opportunity to appeal to a greater extent about private logging if outdoor life is affected. We must respect forest owners and property rights here in Sweden. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development: does the Government consider that organisations and the public should be able to appeal against forest owners' ability to manage their forests and carry out their fellings, despite the fact that the Forest Board has given the go-ahead for this?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-475	Mr President, I would like to As I have said earlier today in this House, this is a general wording that is contained in the budget proposal for 2017 concerning outdoor life policy, which is handled by the Ministry of Culture. The writing has a connection to a UN Convention to which Sweden has acceded. It is really a strange question from Sten Bergheden. It makes you wonder. Are the Moderates not in favour of this UN Convention, which Sweden has adopted? This is not a question of judicial review or of looking at whether this applies to the forestry sector; it is dealt with in the study that looks at forestry legislation.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-477	Mr President, I would like to I understand very well that the Government is trying to tone down this wording, because it is very serious. It is also contrary to the laws and regulations we already have in the country, both the environmental code and the forestry law. My question is still: Does the Government believe that environmental organisations and the public should have an appeal right against the logging of private forest owners, despite the fact that the Forest Board has given them the opportunity to fell? Does the Government believe that they should be able to do so? That is precisely what the budget says.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-479	Mr President, I would like to A forest owner reports that a logging operation will be carried out, but as it is today, no formal decision is made that a felling may or may not be carried out. However, this legislation is being reviewed and how it is being dealt with. There are legal problems in the forestry law currently in force. This, too, is the task of the investigator to review.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-480	That concludes Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-481	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I am prepared to review the design of the chemical tax in order to reduce or eliminate distortions of competition. The question is raised in the light of the fact that sales directly from foreign sellers to Swedish consumers are exempt from taxation in the proposed tax on chemicals in certain electronics, which Maria Stenergard fears may cause companies in Sweden to choose to place their business, in the form of, for example, warehouses, abroad to escape the tax. The chemical tax investigation has estimated that foreign e-commerce will increase by 0.4 percentage points due to the tax. The government has made no other assessment than the investigation in that part. Other factors, such as freight costs or other costs associated with purchases from abroad, are likely to play a greater role in the development of foreign e-commerce than the proposed tax.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-483	Mr President, I would like to Take it, Minister of Finance, for the answer! The Government proposes in its budget that a chemical tax be introduced on 1 April next year. The investigation that came out of the proposal was set up by the Alliance Government to find economic instruments in the field of chemicals and to suggest what they should look like. In principle, I also have no objection to a chemical tax. It is reasonable and good that anyone who uses in various ways substances that are at risk of polluting our environment should also pay for this. The objections I have are, on the contrary, about the Government's proposal for form, which on several points is rather unfortunate. One of the objections is that competition is distorted. If a household chooses to buy, for example, a refrigerator from another country, for example via the Internet, it avoids tax because goods bought from abroad are not covered by it. In the long run, companies that are now in Sweden can choose to put their business and, for example, warehouses abroad and thus escape the chemical tax. Such a move would put jobs in a number of warehouses and logistics centres at risk due to distortions of competition. In the long term, there is also a risk that production itself will move. Another important objection is that the chemical tax is hitting everyone and also the environmentally conscious companies that have made major investments to replace the harmful substances. With the bill submitted by the government, all products are affected. The extra tax must be collected from the consumer. This means reducing the consumer's ability to use consumer power to influence companies. It is an important and effective force to influence producers in the right direction. Consumer power is often stronger than government power. With this system, whether an environmentally friendly product is chosen or not will not affect the price to the consumer. What makes a difference in the wallet for the buyer, however, is whether you buy from abroad. It only gets easier as e-commerce increases. One can really wonder if it is a policy for jobs in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the proposed design has many disadvantages that do not benefit the environment but rather foreign suppliers. It disadvantages decent producers and affects Swedish jobs. That is the background to my question to the Minister for Finance. In her reply to me, she dwells on how she views the risk of increased trade from abroad. What we should also dwell on is whether we really create incentives that lead to a better environment. I'm afraid we don't do that with this construction. Therefore, I wonder: Is the Minister of Finance prepared to review the design of the chemical tax so that it becomes more accurate in relation to the environment and less accurate when it comes to moving the Swedish jobs abroad?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-494	Mr President, I would like to It is good to hear that Maria Malmer Stenergard has no objection in principle to the tax. As far as foreign sales are concerned, I do not know whether there is a misunderstanding here. It is not enough for a Swedish company to place its stock of goods abroad to avoid paying the tax. If a Swedish company places its stock of goods abroad, it will also have to pay the tax in the future. It requires direct sales from a foreign company to a Swedish person without any intermediaries in order for it not to be taxed. The background to this restriction is that it is perceived as impossible for the Swedish Tax Agency to disclose information and have control over all the direct sales that take place. However, Swedish companies with foreign stocks will have to pay the tax. The reason for paying any tax on all products is that there are dangerous substances in all products. On the other hand, the tax will be reduced if there are fewer dangerous substances in the product. There are good opportunities for reduction, which is why consumers are being steered. It is important to steer away from over-use of these products. When using products, it is also important to ensure that more environmentally friendly alternatives are purchased.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-497	Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid it's still very easy to circumvent the tax with the construction that is by moving its business abroad. It's not good for the jobs. An environmental tax should reasonably be designed to contribute to a better environment and not to a worse one. Now the government is presenting a proposal that does not benefit those who have invested in more environmentally friendly topics. Instead, it benefits those who invest in foreign countries. One might object, as the Minister for Finance does, that there is an opportunity for those who use less dangerous substances to get back on the tax afterwards. It is designed in such a complicated way that not many understand it. The system is designed to ensure that all goods have the same tax rate from the outset and that the taxable person can then obtain different levels of deduction if he or she can show that certain substances are not present in the goods. It's a very tricky system. As I have said before, it strikes everyone and even those who have switched to less harmful substances. The administrative burden they face even though they already take responsibility is not proportionate. This is also to be seen in the light of the fact that the government has recently received stinging criticism in order to create far too great a regulatory problem in the field of taxation. This is just a little bit of a mess. No wonder the IRS rejects the proposal. The IRS is not the only negative referral body. On the contrary, many consultative bodies object to the Government's proposal. It is regrettable that the impression has not been made of this. Then there's this again with impact assessments. We Moderates, with our colleagues in the Alliance in the Tax Committee, have recently noted with some horror that the government's tax proposal is rather carelessly prepared and lacking in impact assessment. Unfortunately, this is no exception. Several consultation bodies point to a lack of impact assessment – the National Courts Board and Almega are a couple. The Council usually has wise points of view. This is also true in this case. It proposes that the dangerous substances should be taxed directly instead. It says: One option that is close at hand is to achieve differentiation by bringing the goods from the outset to three classes with different taxes: 100 percent, 50 percent and 10 percent of the tax. This proposal, which would lead to considerably less regulatory uncertainty for companies, dismisses the government as being able to obtain a deduction afterwards. By so lightly dismissing it, it seems to completely disregard the additional administrative burden of such a deduction on the taxpayer, the courts and the Tax Agency. Does the Minister of Finance not realise that such an increased administrative burden plays a role for businesses and jobs? Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the impact assessment she has presented? Can she imagine in the future a model like the one advocated by the Law Council?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-505	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Maria Malmer Stenergard you can almost get the impression that the Moderates did not support the government's proposal for a chemical tax. If I read the Moderate Budget Movement, I see that the chemical tax is also included in the Moderate Draft Budget of 1 January 2017. If you want tax revenue from 1 January 2017, it is difficult to go on any other proposal than that contained in the Government's budget, and it is also in the Government's proposal.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-506	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the Moderates are in favour of a chemical tax. I was quite clear about that in my first speech. On the other hand, what we are very concerned about is the form that has been chosen. That will be 400 SEK higher price for an electronic product. It is not a small thing for a family of children, for example, who often need to buy several electronic products. Shipping from abroad is often significantly lower, and it still pays quite well to choose foreign suppliers over Swedish. I find that unfortunate. For us Moderates, households' finances are at the centre of attention. The government is now proposing proposals that affect households in particular. As I mentioned at the outset, we are in favour of incentives for a better environment and less harmful products. But such incentives must be designed with great accuracy. The consumer power is very important in the work for a better environment. I think many Swedes are prepared to pay a little extra for a product that is nice to our environment. However, the government is now putting a proposal on the board of the Riksdag that increases costs by up to SEK 400 on a computer, for example, regardless of whether you choose an environmental villain or an environmental friend. It is a cost that affects households without favouring the environment. I hope the government can be prepared to reconsider.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-511	Mr President, I would like to Maria Malmer Stenergard is now again concerned about how the families will fare. I would like to note that Maria Malmer Stenergard has just as much tax revenue with this tax in her own budget motion. I hope Maria Malmer Stenergard has it under control. It is clear that the moderate tax hardly affects families with children in a different way from the Social Democratic and environmental party. Since you're supposed to have as much tax revenue, it's just as much that's being pulled in from the households. I really cannot agree that there is no environmental governance in this tax. There is a maximum tax rate, but if you then have smaller chemicals you get a reduction in the tax. The background to the tax is that we have far too much chemicals in our everyday lives. It is not good for all the children who grow up in Sweden, and it is also harmful to others. It is therefore important for the government to take responsibility and take measures to reduce the use of chemicals. We have done so with this proposal. I note that the Moderates have equal tax revenues in their budget exercise. I think that's good. Basically, we agree.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-513	Mr President, I would like to Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me how increased marginal taxes on ordinary occupational groups' wages can help to increase the number of hours worked in Sweden. She has also asked me if I will work to restore the method of calculation of government taxes. After the previous government's terms of office, we saw a situation of large government deficits, unemployment that had stuck to high levels and falling results in primary school. In order to implement urgent efforts which, among other things, contribute to increasing employment and reducing unemployment, the tax must be increased. Higher taxes for those with relatively high incomes provide both the necessary tax revenues and a good distribution profile. Furthermore, it is not just taxes that affect the number of hours worked. Sweden now has the highest employment rate in the EU. Access to childcare and care for the elderly is an important prerequisite for this. Continued investment in welfare is necessary for both women and men to have the opportunity to work full-time, which increases economic equality. Better care for the elderly and higher quality childcare facilities are not only a matter of safe old age and childhood, but can also reduce the number of people who stop working or go down working hours to care for their loved ones. Investments in, for example, increased housing construction and infrastructure also contribute to increased employment. The government currently has no further proposals in the field of income tax than those presented in connection with the 2017 budget bill.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-517	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. As you know, the government's goal is to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. To achieve this goal obviously requires a policy based on companies having good conditions so that jobs can grow. But it must also pay off to work, and it must pay off to train, to develop and to take responsibility in one's professional role. Through the job tax deduction, we made it more profitable to work. Job tax deductions made the most difference for those with low incomes. And it had an effect. The nature of tax policy affects the functioning of the labour market, and it affects how many jobs are created. Instead of making it more profitable to beta and to educate yourself, the S and MP governments have chosen to do exactly the opposite. Despite the electoral promise not to raise taxes for ordinary employees, the government is raising taxes for these very people. Today, 1.3 million people already pay government income tax. This corresponds to about one in three people working. With the government changing the method of calculation of the breach point of government tax, another 40,000 people will now pay state tax next year. And it happens to ordinary people: policemen, teachers and midwives will get increased taxes. It rhymes badly with the government's speech that Sweden should compete with knowledge rather than with low wages. If the government were really serious about the claim that we should compete with knowledge, the government would not tax education on the penalty rather than reward it. The government's promise not to raise taxes for ordinary people is a bad thing. It is a true betrayal of hardworking people with ordinary jobs. In a situation where more hours of work are needed to meet the new growing exclusion, the government chooses to conduct a policy where it pays less and less to educate itself. The driving forces to work extra or to take a new assignment at their workplace are also reduced. This is the background to my questions to the Minister for Finance. How can increasing marginal taxes on the wages of ordinary occupational groups help to increase the number of hours worked? My second question concerns the trixing of the breakpoints. Will the Minister of Finance work to restore the method of calculation of State tax so that additional professionals with normal wages do not have to pay State income tax? The idea was that the stratum should be listed all the time, because if you don't, everyone will eventually have to pay government income tax. Perhaps that is exactly what the Minister for Finance and the Government are aiming for. But this means that they do not believe that taxes play a role in people's choices. This means that they deny the driving forces that exist in getting more money in their wallets and in deciding more for themselves. Increased taxes, of course, affect the motivation to work and raise the thresholds into the labour market. This is particularly serious as taxes are combined with highly developed benefit systems that reduce the driving forces to move from grants to jobs. According to the Institute of Economic Development, the government's reforms lead to fewer jobs. According to the Financial Policy Council of the Government, a policy that risks leading to an under-funded budget. This is explained by the fact that the government expects tax revenue that will not come because it pays less to work. That is why I must also ask: where is the Finance Minister's limit on tax increases?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-526	Mr President, I would like to After two years, we now see the effects of government policy. We have heard the Moderates talk for two years about how bad it will be for jobs and entrepreneurship. What has happened is that we have got 120 000 new jobs since the government took office. We see unemployment falling. Long-term unemployment is falling and youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. We also see a thriving business sector. This is because it is not just about what tax you charge, but also what you use it for. We do not see that it is the countries with the lowest tax rates that have the highest employment or the highest growth. It is a combination of balanced tax collection and sensible expenditure reforms, i.e., functioning schools, health care and care. That is something that can strengthen both growth and employment, and that is exactly what government policy is all about. I have two questions for Maria Stenergard. If the Moderates now think that the tax changes the government has made are so bad, why do you include them in your budget bill? The breakpoint changes introduced on 1 January of this year have been accepted by the Moderates in their budget exercise. The escalation of the employment tax deduction that the Moderates have stood in the speaker's seat and said will not give any tax revenue is included in the Moderate Budget Movement. If I read correctly, you will also accept the reduced count-up of the lower cut-off point for 2017. Maria Malmer Stenergard says we're raising taxes for employees. Then I have to ask Maria Malmer Stenergard: Will she pay higher taxes in January 2017 than she does in December 2016? Will she pay higher taxes after the end of the year than before the end of the year?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-530	Mr President, I would like to In his reply to me, the Minister for Finance has views on how the alliance government handled public finances. That's interesting. We managed to maintain an internationally strong economy in recession and extremely tough economic times. Now we're in a boom. We have just shaken hands in an investigation that we should have a surplus target over a business cycle. It is based on saving in good times to have a little over in tough times. Nevertheless, in these good times, the Minister for Finance and the Government are choosing to present a budget that goes with severe deficits. It is difficult to call it a responsible economic policy. When we borrow in the best of times – what tools should we use when we are in the worst of economic times? It is an economic policy that sends responsibility to future generations. The Minister of Finance's response to the interpellation is based on the fact that all her tax increases lead to increased tax revenues. What if it were that simple? Instead, it is irresponsible to further raise taxes for hardworking ordinary people. It reduces incentives and reduces the number of hours worked. This, in turn, leads to reduced resources for our security and for preschools, schools and health care. All experts agree on that. The government risks an under-funded budget because it has excessive confidence in its own tax increases, says the Council of Finance Policy. Does the Minister of Finance not see a danger in increasing taxes leading to reduced tax revenues and less resources for welfare? I cannot help but note that in a previous interpellation debate today, the Minister of Finance dismissed the Laffer curve as something to which only very right-wing Republicans refer. I do not know whether both the ECB and the Fiscal Council should be included in that category.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-537	Mr President, I would like to If Maria Malmer Stenergard believes in what she herself says now, she should, of course, remove the reduction in the breakpoint that the government implemented in its budget, but Maria Malmer Stenergard does not. Maria Malmer Stenergard believes that it is free to reduce the tax for them with the highest income. Then why don't the Moderates do it in their budget exercise? And why didn't you do it in the eight years you sat in the government and cut the tax by 140 billion? Then why didn't you reduce the marginal tax if you seriously think it's free? And, above all, why do you want to retain the job tax reduction that we have carried out and that you mean does not provide any tax revenue? And why do you not restore the breakpoint changes that we have made and that you have said here in the speaker's chair are so bad? They're in your budget movements. Nor did I get an answer to the question of whether Maria Malmer Stenergard receives increased tax, reduced tax or the same tax after the end of the year, because she claims that we are implementing a tax increase. As far as public finances are concerned, this government has been pursuing the strictest fiscal policy since the budgetary consolidation. This is because Maria Malmer Stenergards's Moderates left behind the biggest budget deficit that we have had since the budgetary adjustment – a budget deficit that was greater than during the financial crisis itself. That is not the way to pursue economic policy. Here we also receive clear support from international bodies which believe that the government is pursuing a balanced economic policy. If you look at the latest report by the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, on the Swedish economy, you can see that there is clear support for the government's economic policy. If you look at the World Economic Forum's review of competitiveness between countries, you can see that Sweden has jumped three placements. We jumped most of the economic policy where we jumped up 30 positions after the change of government.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-543	Mr President, I would like to In our budget, we are presenting a series of tax cuts aimed, above all, at those with lower incomes. In Moderate politics, it is fundamental that it should pay off to work. It'll pay to make an effort. Instead, central to government policy seems to be raising taxes, costing whatever it wants. It worries me, but what really worries me is that, despite what all economic experts agree, it does not seem to believe that taxes play a role in people's willingness to work and to make an effort. That lack of insight in the government is a major threat to our future well-being. Before the election, the government promised not to raise income tax for ordinary people. It's about ordinary people we're talking in this interpellation debate. Neither I nor the Minister for Finance can be considered representative of the population and of ordinary people in terms of the level of our income. Now that the government has laid down its third budget, it almost seems that one of the government's main objectives is to raise the tax for ordinary people. There are a number of tax increases that we do not do. You increase the tax on petrol, you reduce RUT and you want to introduce a tax from a distance, to name but a few changes. And now there is also the increase in income tax. These are elevations that affect ordinary people. It strikes at people who are educated, and it is in a situation where education is already too cheap. It hits the person who makes an effort and takes more responsibility at work. It hits on the one who stands up for the colleagues and takes an extra on-call pass. Is it really a policy of work and rigour? Is this a policy of strengthening public finances? The answer is no. I cannot help but wonder: where are the so-called ordinary people for whom the Finance Minister promised not to raise taxes?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-550	Mr President, I would like to The ordinary people who do not get a tax increase are, of course, among all those people who do not get a tax increase at the turn of the year. Like Maria Malmer Stenergard, the nurse or the police will not pay higher taxes in January than they did in December – unless they receive a municipal tax increase, but the state tax will be lower. Then Maria Malmer Stenergard calls it a tax increase, but it has to stand for her. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that the Moderates lower taxes most for those with lower incomes. That's not correct. You call it a first-job deduction, but it's a sixth job tax deduction. The truth is that Maria Malmer Stenergard and I will have a much greater tax cut than the young people who sit up here in the gallery. When they get their first job, their tax cut is much smaller than yours and mine. It's symptomatic of Moderate politics. This government wants to create a fair Sweden where our young people will have the opportunity to get the education required, their first job, a first apartment and a good life. In order for us to do this, we need to ensure that the tax revenues needed to finance the really good school and the efforts needed to ensure that not all young people are long-term unemployed but able to get a job and that we can have a housing policy that allows us to build housing so that young people have the opportunity to put the key in their first home. This is why the government has launched the largest housing policy package in 20 years. It's the Moderates against.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-553	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson has asked me in what way and with what evidence-based basis a distance-based road wear charge, mileage tax, can be introduced without it being harmful to Swedish industry. An investigation is working on developing a proposal for road wear tax. The structure of the tax is part of the study's mission to analyse, as well as the impact of the proposed tax on different sectors and regions. Once the report has been submitted, it will be prepared in the usual order.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-555	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. In several of the government's various budget documents, it is clear that the government intends to introduce a distance-based tax on heavy vehicles, a kilometre tax. There are many of us around the country who realise that this risks being devastating for the Swedish industry, for jobs, for the ambitions that the whole country should be able to live and be active in, for the Swedish haulage industry and for the competitiveness of Swedish jobs. Let me be clear, Mr President. The Center Party, which I represent in this debate on mileage taxes, has no intention of contributing to the taxation of distances and that large parts of the country's conditions for entrepreneurship, jobs and even to remain, thus decreasing as the cost of its production dramatically increases. In addition, this is a tax that is quite technically difficult to introduce. The Government Löfven ignores these concerns and, for example, stated in the 2014 election debate that the introduction of a kilometre tax would not be a rocket science. In May 2015, the Government set up an investigation into this matter, which would report on its mission on 9 December this year. With the Prime Minister's statement on rocket science in the back of the head, it was therefore with some surprise that we recently noted that the investigation requested extended working hours by two months. That would be so simple, Mr President. But obviously more than rocket research is needed to introduce a tax from a distance in our country. If so, is it the same with the statement that Prime Minister Löfven delivered in the Land newspaper on 9 September this year that such a tax should not be allowed to harm the business community? This was presented at a meeting in Västernorrland with the forest company Stora Enso, which had calculated that a kilometre tax would mean a cost increase of over SEK 2 billion per year for the forest industry in our country. It is a cost equivalent to 25 000 jobs and 20 billion in missed investments. A while ago I met the entrepreneur Lars Martinsson in Bygdsiljum in Västerbotten. He runs a successful wood company. It would be affected by SEK 26 million. For rural entrepreneur Ralf Johansson in Laduryd at home in Småland, a kilometre tax is cut, at the levels discussed by the investigator, to 150 000 SEK per year. Mr President, I would like to Why do I mention these examples? Well, Lars and Ralf are examples of people who work and develop their businesses day after day, for their own good and for the good of their employees. They have iron checks on companies' costs and revenues and are careful to do the right thing at all times. They are, of course, related to the signal sent by the Government of Löfven and the Minister for Finance only by investigating a tax from a distance. It was against this background that I put the question to the Minister for Finance. Now we got an answer that is surgically clear on the implications that the signal to investigate a tax from a distance has created. Of course, the Minister of Finance must have given some thought to the signals that are being sent, especially when she, as Head of Department, has decided on, designed and given the directives to the investigation. Mr President, I would like to What thoughts and reflections does the Minister of Finance have regarding the impact of the kilometer tax on jobs, companies, the environment and people in our country?
i-ee7e500e256a291b-564	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely in order to reflect and to have good facts as a basis for the reflections that an investigation is made. It is good that according to the Swedish management model you should investigate things, look at the consequences and then make decisions. The reason we have set up a study on road wear tax is that the environmental impact of the transport sector is a major problem. We know that we are moving towards increased environmental degradation. The transport sector is an important part of contributing to the increased climate impact that we need to do something about. I know that the Centre Party also finds the major CO2 emissions we have today problematic. It is against this background that the investigation has been set up. A road user tax could lead to a change in the conditions of competition between road and rail transport. That could be a point with a road wear tax. But for it to work, the railways must also work. That is why we are investing heavily in the maintenance of railways. Another ecopoint with a road wear tax could be if it were designed in such a way that it would be lower for more environmentally friendly lorries. This will create additional incentives for truck companies and business to use more environmentally friendly trucks. Another point of road wear tax is that such a tax exists in many other countries. Swedish trucks and Swedish drivers are subject to road wear tax in those countries. With a road wear tax in Sweden, foreign drivers would also be involved in contributing to the Swedish infrastructure. In addition, depending on the design, it could increase the possibilities for checking that foreign drivers comply with current cabotage rules. That would be another important point. At the same time, there are disadvantages to the tax. It can only be said that it will be paid for by some, by the haulage industry and industry. That's why these things have to be weighed against each other. It is against that very background that we have set up the investigation. Another point of the road wear tax is what tax revenues could be used for. We have a great need for increased maintenance of both rail and road in the coming years. Road wear tax could contribute in such a way that it could support business. We know that, not least in Norrland, there are problems with transport due to frost securing today. Lack of frost insurance costs companies a lot of money at the moment.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-572	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for a more developed argument. I'll start with the environmental perspective. In fact, problems for the environment are one of the outstanding problems that a tax from a distance would entail. The transport of precisely those raw materials from which we develop an environmentally smart fuel would be subject to increased costs. It is extremely rare for rail or maritime transport to appear as an alternative in this case. These transports would be subject to costs that would mean that the raw materials would not arrive at Piteå and other places where Preem and others could convert them into smart diesel, with which I, the Finance Minister and others could refuel our vehicles. I share the ambition of the Minister for Finance with regard to the environment. However, my view is that this is a reverse approach to that problem. The Minister of Finance mentions the argument of order and order. The directives that the Minister of Finance has given to the investigation keep returning to the investigation with proposals on how to curb irregularities and distortions of competition in the relationship between Swedish and foreign haulage companies. Among other things, a very comprehensive control apparatus is proposed. In connection with hearings held at the Ministry of Finance, it has been illustrated with a need for up to 400 cameras along the country's roads. It is a control apparatus that only it would cost up to SEK 2 per mile in charge of vehicles driving on the Swedish roads. Tackling fraud, irregularities, distortions of competition and social dumping is a common ambition of me and the Minister for Finance. But could you exercise that supervision and have sanctions against cheating in the haulage industry – if it is an ambition – in a different way from imposing significant costs on Swedish industry? For the forest industry, this is about SEK 2 billion a year, 20,000 jobs and 20 billion in missing investments. Could this supervision be carried out in a different way than in the form of distance-based mileage tax? Could it be possible, for example, to give the police and the Swedish Transport Agency directives, resources and powers to do their job? Actually, that's what we have the police and the Transport Agency for.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-578	Mr President, I would like to In this year's budget, the government has provided extra resources to the police, precisely to work against illegal cabotage. It is an issue that is high on the government's agenda. Nor would it be the main objective of a road-wear tax. On the other hand, a good side effect of road wear tax could be that you can get better control of foreign hauliers. Foreign trucks account for between 20 and 25 per cent of traffic work in Sweden. Of course, it would be a big profit if we could get better control of that business. As far as the effects of the tax are concerned, it is important to say that the investigation is not yet complete. We are waiting to see what the final proposals will be. The Government will then send the proposals for referrals, and the views of the consultation bodies will be important in the further preparation that the Government will make before we take a final position on the proposals.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-580	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance. There were three arguments. That was the environmental argument, which I may have punctuated slightly. That was the argument of order and order. The Minister of Finance referred to the strengthening of resources to the police in order for them to carry out their mission. The question then is what arguments remain for introducing a kilometre tax. The Minister of Finance initially mentioned that it could help to strengthen the Swedish road network. If so, I have to ask the Minister for Finance: what more taxes are there in our country where a tax revenue is directly destined for a specific purpose? That's not really how we work. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, the government has made it clear that introducing a distance-based kilometre tax is not difficult. The investigation has been set up. Therefore, we were a few who, with a certain surprise, noted that the investigation has communicated that an extension of the investigation period has been requested by two months. All right, I have respect for the difficulty, but my question about this direct-distant tax revenue to the Finance Minister will then be concluded: how have the Government and the Government complied with this request for an extension of time? Will the report be presented on 9 December this year, as originally decided, or will it be presented on 9 February 2017? There are many of us who are excited to see what the investigation is landing in.
i-ee7e500e256a291b-584	Mr President, I would like to There are four reasons why we've set up this investigation. The first reason is that we need to do something about the climate threat. It is important, not least after the historic climate agreement in Paris, that all countries take their responsibility to stop pollution. Of course, Sweden will assume its responsibilities. In this respect, a road user's tax can be a part of moving towards more environmentally friendly lorries, but also by shifting some of the traffic from truck to rail or boat. The second reason why the investigation has been set up is that between 20% and 25% of road transport is carried out by foreign lorries. I think it is reasonable that foreign trucks are also involved in financing the road system in Sweden. The third reason is order and order. Depending on the design, this will lead to more order among the foreign trucks. The fourth reason, of course, is that we have increased revenue. Then, of course, we do not have special taxes in Sweden. On the other hand, the fees will increase the opportunities to invest, not least in frost securing, which we know is so important for the forest industry, among other things. Whether or not the investigation is extended is a matter that is currently being prepared within the Government Office. Given what Anders Åkesson thinks about the tax, I assume he wishes for an extended investigation period.
