i-7aabe42a4130a19c-1	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me how large reductions in climate emissions are generated by the 2017 budget, when the Riksdag and the public are given access to the underlying calculations, if there are efforts that are not cost-effective in terms of the reduction of climate emissions and if I can then explain which calculations and motivations lie behind these efforts. In accordance with the UNFCCC adopted in 1992, industrialised countries are to take the lead by reducing emissions at a faster pace than developing countries and doing so based on responsibility and capacity. It is also the basis of the EU's climate policy. It's not something we can choose to do or not to do. The Paris Climate Agreement entered into force on 4 November this year. It is now time to speed up implementation. It applies to all the countries of the world. Negotiations are under way on the EU Emissions Trading Scheme – the EU's main tool for a cost-effective climate policy. Reforming the system and making it more expensive to emit would speed up measures to reduce emissions in those sectors where it is the cheapest. In this context, the Government looks forward to clear support in the Riksdag for measures that strengthen the EU ETS. According to science, we have to go global down to zero emissions, or even negative emissions, in this century. As emissions accumulate and stay long in the atmosphere, the sooner we take action is better. We need to adapt our industrial processes, energy systems and transport systems. If we are to achieve our long-term climate goals, it is not enough to buy cheap international emission credits. Such a policy does not contribute to the necessary transformation of society. Government policy will contribute to the development and export of new technologies and solutions for a fossil-free economy. The government is carrying out important climate initiatives in Sweden. Examples are Climate change, urban environment agreements, electric bus premium and super-environmental car premium that fosters the ambition to get a fossil-free transport sector and climate-smart cities. For example, the entire investment in climate change is expected to reduce annual emissions by just over 1 million tonnes per year. We invest in rail maintenance and public transport. The cost-effectiveness of climate investments is important, but the government's measures deliver so much more than climate benefits. We invest in the sustainable construction of society. The investments create more attractive cities with cleaner air, new innovations and jobs in Sweden.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-8	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. The climate issue is a hugely important issue, and the vast majority agree that it is urgent to bring down climate emissions, just as the Government is concerned, thereby reducing the negative impact of man on the climate. The Moderates are a party that tends to emphasize the importance of order and order. Often it is about the economy and the need for order in public finances because it risks creating many other problems if we do not have order there. But if there is an area where order is even more important, it is in climate policy. Precisely because it is urgent to reduce emissions, it is incredibly important that we know that the efforts we are making really lead to the greatest possible climate benefit. Calculations must be made of the emission reductions resulting from different measures. As I see it, there are at least two major problems with the government's climate policy. The first problem is that the government seems to lack comprehensive estimates of how much total emission reduction the policy is expected to lead to. It is also clear from the Government's reply that I will not receive such a figure. In fact, it is somewhat astounding, for it means that the government is fumbling blindly. How should you know if you are doing the right things if you do not have any calculations of what the policy is expected to achieve? How do you know if you're doing enough? The second problem with the government's climate policy is that for those measures where there are actual calculations, such as the Climate Change Penalty, the climate benefit per invested crown is troublesomely low. The average cost per tonne of reduced emissions is almost SEK 3,200 according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. This should be compared with, for example, mechanisms for clean development, CDM, where the price is approximately SEK 60 per tonne. Mr President, I would like to The climate challenge is global. This means that every tonne of emissions is equally harmful regardless of where it happens in the world. This also means that every tonne we can reduce emissions is equally important regardless of where it happens. For the climate, the reduction of emissions is equally beneficial regardless of whether it is done in Sweden, in China or in Africa. The government often beats its chest and tells how much money it spends on climate policy. But it's actually completely uninteresting. The important thing is the result achieved and the result that could have been achieved with more cost-effective measures. The Moderates say no to the government's climate action, and we invest in our budget for 2017 instead SEK 100 million more than the government in international efforts such as CDM. These measures provide 50 times greater climate benefits than the government's climate action. I was going to show a picture to illustrate it, but the President told me that such images should not be shown in the Chamber, so I have to describe it instead. The picture would illustrate the clear difference between the 50 times higher stack that our SEK 100 million in the budget gives in emission reductions compared to the stack for SEK 100 million of the Climate Tree. The Government's climate action provides for SEK 100 million 33 000 tonnes in emissions reductions. Our SEK 100 million to CDM provides nearly 1.7 million, 1,670,000 tonnes of emissions reductions. It is thus clear that the government focuses on expensive and inefficient symbolism policy with very limited climate benefits. Why does the government choose to focus on the limited emission reductions, 33 000 tonnes per 100 million, instead of the large emission reductions of almost 1.7 million tonnes?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-20	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Gjörtle, for the time being to clarify the very gross misunderstanding and frustration that the honourable Member is expressing in this House. The total investment cost of Klimatklivet is not SEK 3,200 per tonne. It is SEK 370 per tonne. I propose that the honourable Member go back to his Chamber and look at how he has arrived at the completely incorrect figures. The investment cost involves 40 % State aid. The rest is part-financing from municipalities, from companies and from those entering the project to get the most climate-efficient measures that would otherwise not have been implemented. The fact that the Moderates då comes with a proposal of 100 million for CDM projects, as a cheap way for Sweden to get away with making a transition, is astounding. We've got calculations for the Climate Scene. The 582 projects approved so far by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency – the latest number came a few days ago – correspond to emission reductions in Sweden equivalent to 40% of all heating of homes and premises, or emissions from 140 000 cars annually. That's what the Climate Tree has done so far. The Environmental Protection Agency also estimates that this government's policy will lead to further emission reductions, which will end the emission gap left by the alliance government. Just as in Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's erroneous argument, it was argued that Sweden would buy itself free from emission reductions through CD M projects in developing countries. We are pursuing a policy of investment in the railways, environmental agreements with public transport and much more. I would like to ask Jonas Gjörtler what calculations the Moderates have. What will it mean that you want to reduce the tax on fossil fuels by 8.1 billion when we need to increase it? So you're against it. You're against a road toll. You're against airline taxes. You are opposed to the chemical tax proposed by the government. You're against the K Lima. You are opposed to the urban environment agreements. You are against everything except favoring old, fossil, out-of-date and dirty technology. I think you should continue with that. You don't want high-speed trains. You don't want a plane tax. What can I get you? Do you want to continue subsidizing large, dirty SUVs that are going around in our inner cities? What calculations do the Moderates have for reducing Sweden's emissions? I would like to emphasise that we have a responsibility to the developing countries. We have actually created our development by releasing large amounts of CO2 into the atmosphere. Does Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler not think that we then also have a responsibility to go ahead, even if it costs a little more than twice as much as buying cheap CDM projects? Is SEK 140 kilot per tonne of state investment aid for climate-smart measures too much?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-30	Mr President, I would like to The Government of Lövin claims that we believe that nothing needs to be done in Sweden, that everything should be done in other countries and that we should buy ourselves free, as it was put here. It's all wrong. I do not know anyone, at least not from the Moderates, who has claimed that we should not do anything at all here in Sweden. We are clear that the Swedish challenge exists. And it exists mainly in the transport sector. We see that, above all, we need to develop a new vehicle taxation that better controls climate performance. Despite much talk, the government has not yet delivered such a proposal. Pending this, the government has certainly extended the super-environmental car premium imposed by the Alliance Government. We think that's a good thing. We also fully match that in our draft budget. This is an important part of the transition, pending the better proposal that will hopefully come sometime. As I said, we say no to the government's ineffective climate action. However, we are instead adding separate money to the charging infrastructure for electric cars, because we believe that it is an important part of the transition. With regard to vehicle fuel, which is perhaps the most important thing, we want to see a system of reduction obligations where emissions are gradually reduced. It is a market-based system that rewards fuels with good climate performance. In addition, it provides long-term rules for operators in the industry that are in the starting blocks to produce biofuels on a large scale. Nor is it a major burden on the state budget. Once again, it is not how much money you spend that is important. It is the result that is the important thing. Regrettably, the government proposals are entirely absent here too. The point of our policy on this is that we are not looking to punish transport. Transport itself is not the problem. It's the emissions. Kilometer tax and flight tax are hitting transport directly and have a limited effect on emissions. This is particularly true of the airline tax. Instead, they risk hitting jobs and growth in rural areas. We have calculations for how this is to be done. As far as emissions in the transport sector are concerned, we believe that the path developed by the Environmental Objectives Committee should be followed. That's what we're behind. Indeed, so do the Green Party and the Social Democrats, the government parties. This is a reduction obligation that follows the emission path and leads to precisely the emission reductions that we in Sweden have undertaken and said we want to do. So the Moderates have some suggestions. But the difference is that we do not choose to solve the problems through shock tax increases that hit hard at jobs and growth in rural areas and risk biting our tails in the next step. We are in favour of a market-based system with regard to, for example, the reduction obligation and a change in vehicle taxation, which I also mentioned. As I said, the problem of climate change is cost-effectiveness. But there is another problem too. When the corresponding measures have been evaluated in the past – I am thinking above all of Klimp – the evaluations show that it is not only poor cost-effectiveness. Money also goes to a large extent to measures that should have been taken anyway. It is called a lack of additionality, that is to say that the money the government is investing goes towards measures that should have been taken anyway. In practice, this means that there is money in the lake. It is therefore money that could have been used to bring about climate benefits and that now really does not mean any increase at all. Our numbers come from the Environmental Protection Agency. The whole climate life costs SEK 1.9 billion. It is estimated to yield 600 000 tonnes of emissions reductions. There will be a cost of almost SEK 3,200 per tonne. That is what the state is putting into this. If Isabella Lövin has a different calculation and other figures, she is happy to explain them.
i-Aae7U2uT7sz7ZT1ZTDGmtL	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler! The figures I report are based on emissions reductions of 2.7 kilos per invested krona. This means that an investment of SEK 370 produces emission reductions of one tonne. Of this, the government investment is on average 40 percent, i.e. about SEK 150 per tonne. If the honourable Member is unsure of those figures, we can sort it out afterwards. As far as additionality is concerned, it has indeed been a matter for CDM projects as well. But by going in with 40% co-financing, we catalyse, release a much larger amount of money that goes to climate-smart investments. When the government took office there were about 2 000 charging poles for electric cars in Sweden. Now we are approaching 7 000 in the country. Now you can go by electric car from Sundsvall to Trondheim on Green Highway. We now see that Östersund is Sweden's most electric car-tight city. This is an investment. We are building an infrastructure so that we can switch to virtually carbon-free and very cheap private car traffic. The Government works with the reduction obligation and other instruments. We will, of course, come back to how to get more renewable also into the so-called traditional cars. Nevertheless, it can be noted that the Moderates' 100 million for charging poles stands fairly flat against the 3.3 billion that the government invests in urban environment agreements, climate change and other local investments with bearing on climate and the environment. The Moderates also want to abolish the government's tax increases on fossil fuels. To reduce the petrol tax, SEK 800 million is being invested in 2017 and a total of 8.1 billion by 2020. It also wants to reduce the CO2 tax on diesel used in agriculture, forestry and aquaculture. The aim is to remove the increased support for the central environmental authorities. The aim is to restrict the right of municipalities to set up nature reserves. A total of SEK 300 million per year is spent to enable heavy trucks to operate on the roads, and road wear and tear charges are rejected. As I have said, you say no to air tax despite the fact that aviation fuel today is completely tax-free. Unlike petrol as ordinary motorists tanks in pump, aviation fuel is completely tax-free. You also say no to the chemicals tax proposed by the government and which some of your alliance colleagues think is good. I find it very difficult to see that 100 million on international climate investments or 100 million on charging poles weigh this up. I would also like to repeat: Does Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler think that a snowed profit and cost-effectiveness is the perspective that befits Sweden in a situation when the Arctic now has 20 degrees warmer than normal? We need to change quickly, and Sweden can be a pioneer country.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-50	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely why it is so urgent that we implement cost-effective measures. It is then that we can achieve as much emission reductions as possible in a short time. It is precisely for the sake of the climate that this is so important. We cannot afford to spend money on luxury projects that cost over SEK 3 000 per tonne of emissions reduction when we can implement measures that are 50 times more cost-effective. We have not been against the chemical tax, we are against the design of the tax. We would have liked to see a different design. We do not think it is right, but we have not said no to that tax in our draft budget – just so that it is recorded in the Minutes. Then I wonder if Isabella Lövin means that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency counts wrong. This is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's figure that is behind the SEK 3,200. This is not something we have made up, and Parliament's investigation service has also calculated this and confirmed the same information to us. With regard to instruments, it is once again very clear that the government is focusing on combating the wrong problems. The government is very busy trying to reduce transport, but it is not transport itself that is the problem, it is emissions. Let's focus on reducing emissions! The government says we want to reduce the tax on fuel, but that's a truth with modification. We say no to the over-indexation, the extra increase, of fuel taxes that the government wants to introduce. Our way forward is not to tax fuels, but to impose a higher share of biofuels on the path proposed by the Environmental Objectives Committee. This type of tax reduces emissions without hitting the countryside, jobs and growth hard. As far as the airline tax is concerned, it's even worse. These emission reductions cost SEK 9 000 per tonne to be paid by rural travellers. It's a very bad climate policy, the Government.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-56	Mr President, I would like to If I remember correctly, some of the alliance colleges said no to the investigation proposal before the investigation had presented it or before it was known to the public what it would contain. I think it is a very unserious attitude towards a proposal that is rather modest in relation to how fossil fuels are taxed for ordinary people compared to the fact that aviation should be the exception. I have noticed from opinion polls that the Swedish people also think it is quite reasonable. Then we are talking about what we are using these tax revenues for. The Moderates are so passionate about reducing taxes that there will be no money left to support those who actually want to go ahead and invest in climate-smart measures. You lower the tax and do not agree to an increase in it on petrol and diesel. Your alliance colleagues are in on 8.1 billion who could be used to reinvest in changing Sweden for a climate-smart transport system where we invest in high-speed trains, charging poles and biogas plants. During the two years that have passed since the Climate Tree was introduced, the use of biogas has increased by 20 per cent. The number of charging poles has tripled. That is what needs to be done to bring us down to zero emissions in the long term. There are no small adjustments to the margin. We will rebuild Sweden and show that it is possible to live in a welfare country with clean air to breathe, with living cities where people can fit and where we have a positive development also for the countryside.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-61	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me whether it is my position that the state reasonably balances environmental objectives and production targets, what effects I believe that impaired opportunities for active forest management and well-functioning forestry lead to in terms of environmental objectives, and whether I and the government take or plan any measures to strengthen forest ownership and facilitate forest owners to carry out long-term and well-functioning forestry, and what measures are involved in that case. I would like to begin by saying that it is of great importance to the government that forestry is conducted in a long-term economically, environmentally and socially sustainable manner. Forest policy is based on two equal objectives: environmental and production objectives. There is a need to develop both of these elements. As well as increasing protection and environmental protection, increased production of forest raw materials is important in the transition to a bio-based society and to phase out fossil energy. In a letter to the Government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have assessed that there is a need to investigate the Species Protection Regulation to ensure that it is applicable, effective and legally secure. The question of whether a review of the Species Protection Regulation should be carried out is currently being prepared within the Government Office. The government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested. As regards key biotopes, it is the responsibility of the State, in line with the strategy for the formal protection of forests, to give priority, among other things, to area protection for key biotope-rich properties. It is estimated to provide great conservation benefits and increases confidence in the conservation work in the forest. The government has also made it possible for forest owners from all over the country to report interest in the long-term protection of forests with high natural values through the so-called complementary working method Nya K omet. I interpret the questions as being raised in the light of Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's concern that ownership is restricted by the government. Ownership of forest is constitutionally protected and not challenged by the government. In the bill A forestry policy in line with time, the government established that the two equal goals of forestry policy, the environmental and production objectives, and the shared responsibility between society and forest owners, require a clearly defined and long-term ownership. Freedom under responsibility means that individual ownership of forests should be safeguarded, while the forest owner has an important part in the common responsibility to manage all of the forest resource's assets in a sustainable way in accordance with the ecosystem approach. I can only say that the direction of forestry policy is solid. The government is currently carrying out two major work in the field of forests: a legal review of forestry legislation and work on the national forestry programme. In this, many of the forest's stakeholders have participated in a dialogue process and recorded proposals to the government for forests to contribute to jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country and to the development of a growing bioeconomy. We are currently analysing the consultation results of the working groups' reports. My hope is that the efforts will lead to a positive development of the work towards equal goals. There is a need for further action that meets all the challenges of the future. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag in 2017 regarding the national forestry programme.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-70	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. The background to this interpellation is indeed that I, and certainly many other Members, have been contacted by forest owners who express concern about what they perceive as a gradual erosion of property rights. What is described is a gradual change in a number of things. Sometimes it is about major changes, but it is also about some small steps and measures that individually may not always be perceived as dramatic. Overall, however, the view is clear, namely that ownership is on a sloping level and that it is leaning ever more strongly. In the interpellation, I refer to three concrete examples. This is about the species protection regulation, which causes problems when, for example, you are going to harvest forests. We have the key biotopes that make up an unfortunate legal grey area. It is a matter of labelling which, in practice, means that the forest cannot be used. You cannot sell the timber, but at the same time there is no formal protection, and as a forest owner you do not get any compensation. As I said, this creates an unfortunate grey area, which in practice is an erosion of property rights. There is also the question of logging and the right of appeal. The government seems to be looking at further extending the possibility of speaking rights for more people to be able to have views on fellings in the forest, which would be a major concern. According to the Forest Protection Act, production targets and environmental objectives must weigh equally, and the Government also mentions this in its response. In practice, these two objectives are closely linked. Private ownership of forests is a basic foundation to ensure that long-term responsibility, active forest management and profitable forestry are at the same time prerequisites for protecting different environmental values. A very large proportion of the forest that is excluded from forest production in Sweden is also voluntary provisions from private forest owners. Looking at the productive forest land, a larger proportion is seen to be excluded from forestry – and thus protected – through voluntary provisions compared to what is formally protected. This applies anyway according to the 2011 figures that I managed to find. Possibly it looks a little different now; I think the difference is even bigger now. This is, of course, made possible by forest owners who believe in the future and who perceive that the state has a reasonably balanced approach and a balanced view of the environment and production. My picture, however, is that the government places a great deal of focus on describing environmental measures regarding forests. But the question then arises whether the government is planning any measures at all aimed at strengthening property rights or improving opportunities for forest production. The Government is very happy to give examples of what the Government intends to do to strengthen ownership and facilitate the opportunities to manage forestry. As regards, for example, the species protection regulation, we also hear from the authorities about a great deal of concern that the current policy, with halted fellings etc., risks reducing the forest owners' own efforts to nurture and develop their forests. How does the Minister view this? Is it really reasonable that the production forest loses natural value? This cannot be the intention of the government. In a letter to the Government, the responsible Directors-General of the two authorities of the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency asked for a review of the regulation. So far, we have heard nothing from the government about this except that it is being prepared. I think the government could get a move on. There's not much to think about. If the two responsible authorities find that there is a problem, the government should also see it and start the investigation right away.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-79	Mr President, I would like to Ownership is constitutionally protected, as I also said in my answer to the interpellation. The government does not question it either. But, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, the ownership is not always unlimited. There is also an all-men's right. Is this the one Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler and the Moderates question? The interpellation states that there are already extensive possibilities for environmental organisations, for example, to appeal against logging notifications, but this is wrong. This is an issue that has never been tried, and it is this issue that the investigation should look at and clarify the rules for. However, the investigation does not only have this task, but will also clarify who or who should be responsible for complying with forestry legislation. This is not clear today. It shall also consider whether provisions must be introduced which penalise, for example, false information provided. We have appointed a new investigator, the lawman Fredrik von Arnold, who has the task of looking at this and submitting a final report on 31 March. It is likely, however, that time will have to be extended. The budget text to which Jonas refers when he claims that the government anticipates the investigation is taken from the portal clause of the Aarhus Convention. This is a commitment that Sweden has made a long time ago. In total, 48 countries have signed the Convention, including all EU countries. We are following part of the EU's legal order here, and we too, of course, need to adapt national legislation accordingly. This is what we are looking at right now. Jonas also interprets freely when he says that I see contradictions between forestry and other interests. This is not true. Production targets and environmental objectives are equal. Why would it be impossible to deal with this? We have a huge amount of forest in the country. 70% of the country's surface is covered with forest. No other country in Europe has so much forest in relation to its surface. Forests are of great importance to outdoor life. Forestry and outdoor life can be combined and have done so for a long time. We have an all-men's right. Is this what Jonas and the Moderates are questioning? We must safeguard these equal objectives. We should also remember that of all the efforts made, growing forests take up the most carbon dioxide. Of course, at the same time, we are protecting large areas in order to preserve biodiversity. However, the carbon sink that we get will stop when the forest stops growing. Therefore, it is also important to constantly ensure that new forests are used in order for the uptake of, among other things, carbon dioxide to continue. So the forest has many values. It is extremely important from a climate point of view, and it is also very important for employment and growth as well as for building prosperity for Sweden.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-87	Mr President, I would like to We already have a lot of so-called forest in Sweden. More than 25 per cent are excluded from forestry, according to Skogsstyrelsen. The figure is a few years old but is said to be higher today. I am a little curious as to whether Minister Bucht believes that the proportion of protected forests should be further increased. If so, how does he see additional forest land excluded from production? Otherwise, this forest could have contributed to, for example, the large amount of biomass needed to meet the climate challenge. Excluding more forest could therefore have consequences for this. This also fits well with what the Government itself was into here at the end, that it is when the forest grows that it contributes to climate benefit by being a carbon sink. This benefit can disappear if the forest is removed from production. No, we do not question the right of public access at all on the part of the Moderates. That is not what this is about. The right of public access is important and must be protected and protected. Perhaps this is precisely why it is very important to be clear about the limits that apply to public access and to the protection of property rights in a good way, in order to avoid the risk of public access to justice coming under attack. I think it is incredibly important that we have a good balance here. Ownership is constitutionally protected, says the Government, and that's true. But it does little to help when forest owners perceive that ownership is gradually being eroded, with small steps and sometimes a little bigger steps. This is an opinion of the forest owners. It is possible that the Government does not share this view, but I think he should take their concerns a little more seriously. In some cases, it is also the case that this concern is shared by the responsible authorities. The shortcomings of the Species Protection Regulation risk shifting the balance between environmental and production objectives. Forest owners who have managed their forests excellently and for several generations have been able to maintain viable stocks of endangered species in parallel with a functioning forestry system, sometimes find themselves in a situation where their logging notifications do not go through. County Administrative Boards, the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency point out that there are threatened species in the area and that the species protection regulation cannot therefore allow felling. This is a very unfortunate order, and it may be because there is no exception for agriculture and forestry. This also runs counter to the fact that the environmental code identifies forestry as a national interest. The Government says in its answer: a review of the Species Protection Regulation is currently being prepared within the Government Office. But how hard can it really be? The directors-general of the two authorities who know this, work with it and are responsible for it, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, sent a letter to the government earlier this year. It is noted that it is necessary to examine the Species Protection Regulation in order to ensure its applicability, effectiveness and legal certainty. The competent authorities therefore question whether the Regulation as it stands is applicable, effective and legally secure and considers that a review is necessary. I'm sorry about the government, but I don't need any preparation for this. What is needed is for the government to get loose and get to grips with the issue. Both forest owners and responsible authorities believe that this is necessary. What exactly is the government waiting for? There is increasing talk of locally beneficial conservation status. I mean that the whole idea of favourable conservation status threatens to be eroded, because species that are not threatened in the country are suddenly to be protected in areas where they have not existed in the past. This applies, for example, to the current case of the box of lichens. There are ongoing court proceedings dealing with the southernmost range of the lavskråkan. It's just that the species is now so favored that it spreads south to areas where it hasn't been before, almost like an invasive species, but with protection. If that principle is to prevail, we will have many problems with restrictions on forestry. I would like to hear the views of the Government on this.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-95	Mr President, I would like to On the issue of additional protection, I can say that there is formal protection for an additional 150 000 hectares. This is something on which there is a very large and broad political consensus. Recent studies have shown that forest owners have great confidence in forests and forest production. I see this very clearly in the work that the government is doing together with the industry and interest groups in the national forest programme to develop forestry and the forest industry in Sweden. There is an enormous commitment to these issues. That worry may have to stand for Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler himself. It may be designed. We have a lot of biomass in our forests. We have managed our forests very well for a long time. I'm sure there are things to improve. But the forest supply has doubled in the last 100 years. We have over 3 billion cubic metres of forest in the total forest supply. 100 years ago it was 1.7 billion. So a lot has happened. This also shows that an environmental objective can be reconciled with a production target. This has been done in a very good way in Sweden for a long time. In fact, we were the country in the world that first adopted a forestry law. When we cut a tree, we plant at least two new ones, sometimes three or four. But we also protect forests. We take environmental considerations. We protect species that are under threat. It is important that we can reconcile these things. As I said in a previous post: If there is any country that can do this, it is probably Sweden, which has so much forest. 70% of the area is covered by forest. Should we not be able to have two equal goals: the production target and the environmental objective? Is this what the Moderates are questioning? Or is it the right of public access you question? What exactly are Jonas and the Moderates after?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-100	Mr President, I would like to I do not understand what Minister Bucht's father is after when he suggests that we would like to question the right of public access. What in the examples I have mentioned would restrict the right of public access? That's not what it's all about. This is about how forestry can work. As I said at the beginning and as I wrote in the interpellation, the Forest Protection Act states that we have two clear and equal goals, which is basically good. My concern is that the balance between these two objectives is shifting and that the centre of gravity is sliding towards the environmental objective. It affects forestry and production, which in the next step will also lead to problems for the environment, because very much of the environmental objectives can be achieved by having a functioning forestry system. Then I have to say that it is almost on the verge of arrogant when the Government stands here and claims that the concerns I am talking about do not exist and would be constructed. The government is therefore in the speaker's chair and claims that I would have made up that forest owners are concerned about this. I wonder whether the Council of State is going along with what is being written on these issues right now. There is a rather widespread concern. Many forest owners have great confidence in the forest and forest production and look forward to these in the long term. That's absolutely right. However, there is great concern that these changes, including those I have mentioned in my interpellation, contribute to the deterioration of conditions, to the erosion of property rights and to making it more difficult to operate forestry. In the next step, it also risks hitting environmental objectives. I am surprised that the Government does not take this issue a little more seriously. It's not about the right of public access. It is not a question of questioning environmental objectives. It is about safeguarding the balance between environmental objectives and production targets. Sustainable forestry is the basis for achieving environmental objectives in the next step. I wish the Government would take this issue a little more seriously.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-105	Mr President, I would like to I don't think there's any reason to be intimidated, like Jonas does. We had a debate on the same subject with your party colleagues last week. They also tried to scare and paint a black picture. We have a commitment under the Aarhus Convention, to which 48 other countries have acceded, including all EU countries, and there is also an EU law. It is clear that we are obliged to look at it and ensure that we have an application that is correct and correct. You don't have to scare up forest owners because of this. There are ambiguities in forestry legislation as to who is responsible for what. There is also reason to consider whether it should be punished to provide incorrect information. That's what this investigation looks at. Forests mean a great deal to Sweden, both from an environmental and production point of view. With 127 billion in export value, we are in third place in the world. Forests directly employ 60 000 people. We develop our production methods. The national forestry programme looks at developing production methods in forestry and industry to enable the forest to remain an export engine and a welfare builder. It is also about developing good technology to both farm the forest and protect nature. There is a lot of technological development. These issues are also discussed in the national forestry programme. I look forward to our being able to present a proposal on the matter at Parliament's table next year.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-109	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tina Ghasemi for the important interpellation. Tina Ghasemi has asked me what I intend to do to prevent underage girls from being placed in the same housing as adult men with whom they are married. I fully agree that this is a very urgent issue. I have also expressed my firm view in various contexts that child marriage infringes the rights of the child under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Asylum-seeking girls and boys who come to Sweden without their parents and are married should be considered as unaccompanied children in our reception system. We must never forget that unaccompanied minors have the same rights as all other children in Sweden under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every girl and every boy has the right to their childhood and youth. Children should not be married and live in marriage. Child marriage is often a way of controlling girls, which it is usually about, and their sexuality. When a girl is married away, she is deprived of her independence and risks being treated like a man's property. According to UNICEF, girls are particularly protective against child marriage in situations of conflict and crisis. According to the organization, one in five registered marriages among women fleeing Syria involves a girl under the age of 18. According to the UN Special Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, it is common for the girl's parents to marry her away as a means of giving the girl protection. It is the task of social services to investigate and assess the needs of the girl in accordance with the Social Services Act. When social services decide where it is most appropriate for the girl to be placed, an individual assessment must always be made based on the best interests of the child. That assessment includes listening to the child. The government takes the work against child marriage very seriously. I also understand that the Swedish Tax Agency has procedures for examining all matters relating to married children aged between 15 and 18 and that the Swedish Tax Agency can make complaints to social services when they know about a child who is married. It is our task to ensure that the girls and boys who are in Sweden receive the protection and support they need and are entitled to. Together with the authorities, we have initiated a number of measures to address the challenges that exist. T ill examples have the procedures for paying attention to children who are married tightened up, several civil and criminal law changes have been introduced in recent years to strengthen protection against forced marriages and child marriages in Sweden, and social services have received increased support to fulfil their mission. These measures are important and have given a better understanding of the scale of the problem and how protection against child marriage and support for the vulnerable can be improved. But that's far from enough. We have also received signals from several municipalities about a hidden problem with girls living in marital relationships without being married. The government has recently presented a national strategy against men's violence against women, which also concerns issues of violence in the name of honour and child marriage. Concrete measures planned by the Government within the framework of the Strategy include identifying the extent of honour-related violence, including child marriages and forced marriages, and giving a special investigator the task of evaluating the 2014 legislation against child and forced marriages. The investigator shall consider, inter alia, whether a specific penalty for crimes of honour should be introduced. The National Board of Health and Welfare has recently revised the handbook included in the knowledge support for social services in the work with unaccompanied children and young people. The guide contains, among other things, a section on unaccompanied minors who are married. The Government also intends to set up a knowledge centre at the National Board of Health and Welfare for issues relating to unaccompanied minors with the aim of, among other things, disseminating knowledge about how these children can be treated and supported. Together, this will help to strengthen guidance for municipalities on the placement of asylum seekers children who claim to be married. My obvious starting point is that children should not be married.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-120	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The time that children should be filled with joy. It should be free from fear and anxiety. Whether you were born in Sweden or have immigrated here from another country, you as a child should always have the right to a safe and secure upbringing. Unfortunately, too many children in Sweden are denied that right. There are many examples of this. One of the more shocking is about girls married to adult men who they come to Sweden in the company of seeking asylum. Several of them have been placed in accommodation with their husbands, despite the fact that child marriage is contrary to Swedish law. It is also against this background that I have asked for the debate here today. During the year we have received reports from both the Migration Agency and a number of other authorities that several of these girls have been placed in accommodation together with their husbands despite the fact that children's marriages are contrary to Swedish law. It has also emerged that municipalities' social services, which are responsible for investigating children's needs and taking appropriate measures thereafter, have chosen to deal with the issue in very different ways. Some municipalities have chosen to separate the girls from their adult men while their needs have been investigated. In other municipalities, they have been placed with their husband without a proper protection investigation being carried out first. Of course, this is alarming. In other words, this means that child marriage in some municipalities in Sweden is accepted today in 2016. In a country with a government that, time after time, calls itself, the world's first feminist government, girls fleeing war and oppression are placed in the same housing as their grown men, men they were forced to marry against their will. Mr President, I would like to It is usually said that marriage is a sacred institution. But child marriage is an institution based on oppression. It is a form of oppression that poses serious risks to life and health. It is an abuse of the child's natural rights. In marriage, the child is often subjected to violence and abuse. Her chances of entering the labour market later in life are deteriorating, and she is deprived of all opportunities for freedom and self-determination. According to data from UNICEF, more than 700 million women worldwide have married as children. More than one in three of them was younger than 15 years of age at the time of marriage. I and the Moderates believe that Sweden should fight oppression, not import it. Swedish welfare should be based on ideals anchored in the conviction of the equal value of all people. Mr President, I would like to Åsa Regnér is in the government. The Government can propose to the Riksdag that it should be prohibited by law to place underage girls in the same accommodation as the adult men they are married to. The government has the opportunity to tell the National Board of Health and Welfare to draw up clearer, more legally secure directives for social services in order to remedy the uncertainty and confusion that exists in many of the municipalities of the country. The government has the opportunity to ensure compliance with and upholding Swedish values on gender equality and to satisfy children's legitimate claims to a childhood without fear, anxiety and oppression.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-129	Mr President, I would like to My answer to that question is: we do. We do a lot of things to get to the problem. Among other things, we are looking at the legislation that your government decided not so long ago and where you obviously did not anticipate the problems. If so, you could have done the right thing in the first place. We are reviewing that legislation to see how it can be further tightened up to protect girls and boys in that situation. In connection with this, we will instruct the investigator to review whether honor-related motives can be the basis for punishment. This is also important for these issues. In my capacity as Minister for Gender Equality, I presented a strategy against violence against women about two weeks ago. There is a great deal about honour-related issues, where I believe that child marriage is included. We have a lot of suggestions about how to address and prevent these issues. When we work with it intensively, I will call for a national collection in the New Year so that all actors in Sweden who have to deal with this issue will see their role in this and really take the responsibility they have to place girls. As regards legislation, which Tina Ghasemi is asking for, we will also review the Social Services Act. Even today, according to the law, municipalities do not have to live in any kind of confusion at all. They must comply with the Social Services Act, which states that each child should receive an individual assessment. The municipalities that do not do so today are simply breaking the law. The assessments should ensure the best interests of the child, and the child should be heard. I spoke only yesterday with the head of the SKL so that they will in turn talk to the municipalities about what the situation is and that you have to stand on the children's side and comply with the legislation. The legislation we have for child marriage, which was presented when the Moderates were in power, foresaw, as far as I understand, situations where the marriage has been concluded in Sweden or where one of the parties is related to Sweden. Now we see that more and more girls come looking for asylum and claim to be married. I was in New York as late as last week in connection with a UN initiative I'm on the board of directors on violence against children. There are these issues raised. As you yourself pointed out, the UN says that, unfortunately, parents of runaway girls sometimes perceive it as protecting the girl from other abuse by allowing her to be married away. It is therefore important to counteract these notions at a global level. There, I think we can do quite a lot together. I also think you have a great job in talking to your fellow party members, sisters and brothers, in other countries. Unfortunately, we are currently experiencing a backlash in terms of sexual and reproductive rights in the world. If you can convince many sisters and brothers in similar parties in your party family in Europe and in other countries to have a more permissive view of sexual and reproductive rights, I think it is very worthwhile. Here in Sweden we are working hard on the issue. We're going to review the Social Services Act. We are reviewing the regulation on child marriage. We're looking at whether honor-related motives should be the basis for punishment. We have a dialogue with social services on this. The National Board of Health and Welfare has just come up with a manual, and the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County is part of the government's work to strengthen the municipalities' work to always stand on girls' side in this matter.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-138	Mr President, I would like to I just want to emphasise that I think it is good that the government is carrying out a review of the law. I welcome that. So it is with all the laws that are passed; it is good to review them from time to time and see if they really give full effect and what needs to be changed. At the same time, in some parts there is such an obvious potential for improvement that I wonder why the government does not say that it wants to change them at once. We know what the problem is. Simply put, it should not be possible for minors to be placed in the same housing as their adult men. I do not know how much review it takes to remedy this problem. It is true that social services should make an individual assessment, as the Minister was earlier. However, as has been shown by reports from, among others, the Migration Agency, many of these assessments have resulted in underage girls being placed in accommodation with their adult spouses. If several assessments have resulted in this tragic fact, it is clear that the guidelines on which they are based are not sufficiently clear today. If the guidelines can be used to take decisions that are directly opposed to each other, they need to be amended. Mr President, I would like to I think that the Minister sends out conflicting signals when she says that she is against child marriage while it is documented that the phenomenon exists in welfare in the midst of our support and security systems. It should not be allowed to happen, says the Minister. Why not state explicitly in law that this is being prohibited? Why not change the social services directive for the girls' sake and for their right to a childhood, freedom, joy and hope for a better future?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-143	Mr President, I would like to As I have said several times: I do not think that children in Sweden should be married. What you can do before you submit a proposal to the legislature is to prepare a proposal that is consistent with your ambition. That's exactly what we're doing. Besides, we're not just looking at one team, we're looking at several. I think the Social Services Act itself plays a role here. We need to review it too, and we will. My message to the municipalities is that you should see girls who come and state that they are married as unaccompanied children. The government will set up a centre on rights, quality of life, treatment and so on for unaccompanied minors. This will also be an important issue for this centre. The question is clear: Children should not be married, and they should not live as married in Sweden. That is why the amendment was made not long ago. Then we have to adapt the law to situations that arise, and it is a fact that more and more children come and claim to be married. Then we must adapt the legislation accordingly, and we have also taken the initiative immediately. However, we must have the basis for presenting the proposal to you and others in the legislature. It's a normal way of working; that's how we do it in Sweden. My message to the municipalities is that children should not be married in Sweden. We're gonna be on the kids' side. These girls, and the few boys involved, should have the same rights as other unaccompanied children to improve, to educate themselves, to choose for themselves with whom they want to live or to live alone if they want to and to have children when and if they want with the person they choose. For me, it's a matter of course, and that's already the case.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-148	Mr President, I would like to I just want to clarify and say that I think it is good that the Government condemns all forms of child marriage. The law says that children's marriages should not be allowed in Sweden. The Minister says in this House that she, like me, shares this view, which I am pleased about. However, as I said, there are several reports which all point to the fact that the phenomenon exists in our municipalities under the protective hand that our support and security systems are intended to offer to those who really need it. This leads me once again to the conclusion that it should be prohibited by law for underage girls to be placed in the same accommodation as their married men. It's a different matter from the Child Marriage Act. The Minister talks about a review of legislation, individual assessments, information and international cooperation. But it is clear that the Minister is not just talking about such measures in the letter of intent. I think she's hiding behind it. The solution is clear: Make it forbidden by law to place underage girls in the same accommodation as their adult men! Then the Minister would close the gap between his views and his actions. Then it would be easier for social security officers to work on these issues. And above all: then the girls could be freed from the oppression imposed on them.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-153	Mr President, I would like to This is a debate, but it is in danger of becoming a circle of reasoning. What we can do to tighten up legislation is to prepare the issue. Let's do that. We set up at least two investigations that are relevant to this. It is the investigation that concerns the legislation on child marriage and the social services. In the meantime, we have, among other things, a completely new handbook from the National Board of Health and Welfare to the municipalities on the issue. The county administrative board in Östergötland is there to support municipalities that contact them. They alert us when they hear that municipalities are asking questions about this, and they are there precisely to answer questions about this. Children in Sweden should not be married. You should treat children who state that they are married as other unaccompanied children. That is why this support exists. I myself will have a national collection for all actors in this area. The Finnish Immigration Service has analysed itself and written a report where you thought you could improve yourself. They also work to do that and to see the girls as individual rights holders as all other unaccompanied children. We're doing all this at the same time. I would also like to change this and see that there was no such thing at all. I was there in 1995– I'm so old that I could be, and I've been working this long on gender equality issues. The year before, 1994, there were quite strong UN-level wordings on sexual and reproductive rights, including these issues. Since then, there has been opposition in the world to the implementation of the agreements. We can work together to reverse that trend. It is necessary, because unfortunately the situation has not improved in recent times.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-157	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I intend to review the regulatory framework regarding the liability of representatives in the Tax Procedure Act. The question is raised against the background, among other things, of a risk being taken by the person setting up a company. Sometimes business ideas do not carry, which can lead to payment difficulties. For these situations, Maria Malmer Stenergard points out, a regulatory framework that carefully weighs the interests of the entrepreneur against the creditor's interest in payment. I have recently replied to another interpellation on the same subject. I stressed at the time that my starting point was that the reasons behind the introduction of representative responsibility were still viable. The impact of representative responsibility depends on whether the rules are clear and otherwise well designed. But it also depends on how the rules are applied in practice. Following an announcement by the Riksdag on a review of the rules on representative liability, the Swedish Tax Agency has, on behalf of the Government, specifically highlighted a number of issues, namely the application of the possibility of granting so-called creditor relief, thereby giving the company a time limit that extends beyond the ordinary due date of the tax and how the authority takes into account the rules on total or partial exemption from representative liability. The Tax Agency's report on the assignment is part of the basis for the Government's continued work in response to the Parliament's request for a review. Preparation is under way in the Government Office, and I am not prepared to anticipate that preparation.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-161	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a rather technical and tricky issue: representation under the Tax Procedure Act. But it is an important issue for the country's companies. Four out of five jobs are emerging among SMEs. They are Sweden's job engine. For more jobs to emerge, a policy and regulatory framework is needed that makes being an entrepreneur profitable and attractive. Taxes play an important role in this. Taxes play a role when people choose to take risks and to invest in running businesses. For those who succeed, there are opportunities to grow and eventually to hire. It only happens if they dare to bet, if they think it's worth taking the risk. That's the only way the jobs can get more. It is our duty as politicians to clear every path that can lead to more jobs. We do this with an attractive tax system based on the fact that it pays to work and that it pays to run a business. But we also do so with reasonable regulations in other areas. Sometimes business ideas do not carry, which can lead to payment difficulties. But it may also happen to the best of them that for some reason they miss a bill or end up in short - term payment difficulties. These situations also require regulations that carefully weigh the interests of the entrepreneur against the interests of those who are to be paid. What we are discussing here today is when someone sits on the board of a company that for some reason lags behind with payments of taxes or fees and that board member may have to pay the debts with his own private money. It can certainly be reasonable for this to happen in some cases. You're supposed to do the right thing. I want to be very clear about that. However, the application of this regulatory framework has come to be very tough. On paper, intentional or gross negligence is required, but in reality it is enough that you are only one day late with the company's tax payment. Entrepreneurs are also people. They could get sick. They can be fooled by a partner, and they may have the bad luck of choosing the wrong accounting consultant. Again, you're supposed to do the right thing. But the demands must not be unreasonable. If you do everything in your power to do right, but it still goes wrong, you should not be punished as if you were completely irresponsible. I think very few people in this country think it's reasonable. Members of the board of directors of smaller companies in particular are currently taking major risks in terms of the private economy. This discourages people from running businesses and from getting on the board of small limited companies. This is serious, because we need more entrepreneurs and more people who dare to take responsibility and risk. Moreover, it is actually distorted that the government's debts get their own sour cream compared to others who have money to demand. Why is it not as important that other creditors are paid? Mr President, I would like to A majority in the Swedish Parliament is of the opinion that this regulatory framework must be reviewed. We've notified the government. The IRS has brought a memo to the government, but it was over a year ago. What has happened to the government's question since then? And when will the government return to Parliament?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-169	Mr President, I would like to Of course, entrepreneurs can also make mistakes sometimes, and they are people. As a result, there is the possibility for the Tax Agency to give a period of grace. I have also obtained the information that the Swedish Tax Agency's position is that the application for representative responsibility should only be made when the administrator makes the assessment that all the elements of a convicted responsibility exist. We also see that there is a very high rate of approval when the courts try this. That is the information I have collected from the IRS. As far as the substance is concerned, it is important that there is representative responsibility. This is something we use to combat, among other things, grossly organised crime. When it is difficult to judge people in other ways, it is often possible, via representative responsibility, to seize the criminal gain. This is one of the many reasons why it is important to have such representative responsibility. Another reason is that we want there to be fair conditions of competition between companies that pay taxes and contributions and companies that do not. If there is no representative responsibility, companies can continue to carry out their activities even though they have not paid their taxes. This, of course, impairs the competitiveness of those companies that are doing the right thing. There is a difference between the tax authority and other creditors. If a private company does not pay to a supplier, the supplier may refrain from delivering additional goods. This possibility does not exist for the State and for the Tax Agency. It is therefore appropriate for the Swedish Tax Agency to have a different option from other creditors. The Swedish Tax Agency does not have the same opportunities as, for example, a supplier. What happened in the Government Office? Yes, among other things, we have given this mission. The Entrepreneurship Committee has also dealt with the issues. It is right now out for a referral, and we will of course listen to the referee before we, from the government, decide how to proceed. It is important that there are good opportunities to pursue entrepreneurship in Sweden and to create new jobs. It is something that is amazing in Sweden. There are a lot of good ideas, not least among our young people. It is about developing new technologies, not least the new digital technologies. There's something we should take care of. It is about good conditions for starting and running companies in Sweden. It creates jobs. It also creates tax revenue so that we can finance school, health care and care.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-174	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Minister for Finance sees the potential of Sweden's young entrepreneurs and that she says she wants reasonable conditions for them. The Swedish Tax Agency's application of the regulations so that all props must be fulfilled, I see as a prerequisite, i.e. compliance with the law. When I listen to the Minister for Finance, it sounds like there is almost no real problem. But it is a view that is not shared by many. On the contrary, more and more people are paying attention to the problems of personal liability in the Tax Procedure Act. Recently, the Entrepreneurial Investigation Report, to which the Minister of Finance referred, came. That makes it very clear. We have heard in this study from several successful entrepreneurs that they do not go in as external board members of smaller companies because of representative responsibility. – – – The responsibility of representatives thus hampers board recruitments while the legislation reduces the possibility of a second chance for entrepreneurs. – – In our neighbouring Nordic countries, the company's debts are not converted into personal debts in the same way as in Sweden. –– From an entrepreneurial perspective, legislation that both complicates board recruitment and the possibility of a second chance for viable companies is unfortunate. ..................................................... I think the investigation is putting its finger on the problem. We must ensure that more people dare to join in creating jobs by running businesses. Unreasonably tough sanctions, which in reality are impossible to protect themselves from, however much one wants to do right, do not belong in an entrepreneurial policy. Again: You should do the right thing, but the requirements must be reasonable. Such more reasonable requirements are contained in the Companies Act, which can also be used by the State. Even in this law there are rules on personal liability, but more is needed for them to strike. Mr President, I would like to There is a reason why they operate in the form of public limited liability companies. One such important reason is the desire to separate the personal economy from the company in order to limit its risk and that of the family. We must not forget that this very limited personal responsibility for the companies' finances has been a success factor for people's willingness to run companies and thus for Swedish growth. Of course, the rules on limited personal liability should not be misused. Therefore, there are rules on personal liability in the Companies Act, but they are far more reasonable than those in the Tax Procedure Act. If the State were to lean on that regulatory framework, the requirements would have become more reasonable and more uniform, and the State would have been treated as equal to other creditors. It had thus become a clearer regulatory framework so that those who are willing to take risks and start up and run businesses know what applies. You can't underestimate how important it is. Parliament's concerns have been confirmed by the Entrepreneurship Investigation and by several others. I therefore believe that it is becoming increasingly urgent for something to happen to the government.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-183	Mr President, I would like to These are, of course, questions of balance, and they are also questions of application. My starting point is that it is important to have such a regulatory framework and that there were good reasons for introducing representative responsibility. This is important for a number of reasons, for example in order to combat serious economic crime and to have a good competitive environment for those companies that do the right thing. It is also a question of protecting tax revenue. The State has less opportunity to act against companies that do not pay than other creditors such as banks and other companies that are suppliers. Therefore, there may be good reasons for the state to have a special position compared to others. Of course, it is important that the rules are applied in a balanced way. Our Nordic neighbours also have rules. They do not look exactly like the Swedish, but there are rules that those on boards have a responsibility. Norway, for example, is responsible for both taxes and fees when it sits on the boards of legal persons. Also in Denmark there are rules, although they do not look exactly like the Swedish ones. Of course, we will look at the referrals received from the Entrepreneurship Investigation and then prepare the matter further in the Government Office.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-187	Mr President, I would like to I have taken the information about our Nordic neighbours from the Entrepreneurship investigation, which says that they do not have the same responsibilities in these countries as they do in Sweden. One question I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, and whether it has been answered during the preparation in the Government Office, is how much money this is really about. Do you have any idea how much of that money could still be collected under the Companies Act? This is a tricky question, but it is important for Swedish entrepreneurship. The regulatory framework needs to be reviewed. The Swedish Parliament is clear about this, and this has now been confirmed by the Swedish Entrepreneurship Investigation. There must be a balance. Such a fair balance is provided for in the Companies Act, which applies to everyone, i.e. also to taxes and charges. Perhaps it is enough to provide the clarity and reasonableness necessary for people to be prepared to take risks. It is people at work who build Sweden strong. They are the small companies that are Sweden's job engine. If we are to get more jobs, we must have sensible conditions for our companies, and we politicians must understand that this is all connected. The rules on personal liability for taxes are quite unreasonable. It is clear that companies should do the right thing, but we must not discourage people from running businesses. These rules do so today, as is clear from the Entrepreneurship investigation. Parliament has called for change. I very much hope that the government will soon be able to return to Parliament.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-194	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that there was a reason why these rules were introduced. It was because it was assessed that companies were kept going despite the fact that they were not able to pay their taxes and that the companies were therefore not really economically viable. Thus, by not paying their taxes, or having any intention of doing so, one could pursue a business. In this way, there were uneven conditions of competition in relation to other companies. Of course, these reasons still exist. It is a balance and, of course, it is important to find the right balance in the legislation as well as a balanced and good way of applying it in order both to protect the revenue of the State and to protect the companies that pay taxes as they should. Of course, it is also about there being good conditions to run and start new companies in Sweden. I have not taken part in the task today, but if I remember correctly, you will receive about 500 million SEK via the representative responsibility. Of course, how much of what you would get if you made a change depends on what change you would make. Therefore, it is not possible to answer. Now we will look at the referrals of the Entrepreneurship Investigation, and then we will see how the Government returns.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-198	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me what reasons lie behind the Government's mission to investigate a flight tax on national travel and international travel. He has also asked whether it is my position that there are climate reasons for introducing a national air tax in Sweden and whether it is my position that the reasons for the possible introduction of a flight tax in Sweden are affected by the new agreement within ICAO and, if so, in what way. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has also asked what the Government's motivation is for only giving the investigator the task of analysing how a flight tax can be introduced and not making an analysis of whether it is at all appropriate or entailing any gains in terms of climate emissions. The Government's ambition is to introduce a tax on air travel. It should be noted, however, that the Government has not yet made any proposal for such a tax. The Government appointed an investigation to review how a tax on air travel can be designed so that the climate impact of aviation can be reduced in line with Sweden's environmental objectives. The study submitted its report on 30 November 2016. The investigation has, among other things, had to take into account the relationship between a tax on air travel and the hearing within the ICAO on a global trading system. The report has now been referred and will then be prepared in the usual order within the Government Office.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-202	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. Sweden is a sparsely populated country with great distances, and we are therefore also completely dependent on efficient and competitive transport. Just as the mileage tax that the government has now also announced its desire to introduce, a flight tax would strike hard at jobs and growth mainly in rural areas without achieving, in principle, any climate benefit at all. Aviation tax is justified by climate reasons, but in reality this is probably more about the Green Party needing a trophy in government cooperation after all the failures that have existed. It is probably also a question of the Finance Minister seeing here an opportunity to take off the countryside additional money for transport – transport that is difficult to avoid when living in a country with large geographical distances. As I mentioned, there is in principle a lack of climate reasons for introducing a national aviation tax in Sweden, basically because aviation is part of the emissions trading. A flight tax would therefore only lead to emissions moving elsewhere. It is a penalty tax on travel, also quite correctly notes the Social Democratic Municipal Council Lorents Burman in Skellefteå in an article in Today's industry. There are several more, including a number of other social democratic municipal politicians in the country, who are very critical of the plans to introduce a flight tax on travel within Sweden. I wonder if the Minister for Finance thinks that these councillors from her own party are wrong. Why does the Minister of Finance know better what the conditions are in rural areas than the Commissioner knows? No matter what, the government still seems to persist. 40 billion in tax increases on jobs and growth do not seem sufficient. Now you will punish the countryside with additional taxes of a few billion for being a long way from Stockholm and sometimes having to travel to the capital. Even in the case of plans for an air travel tax outside the EU, which is outside the ETS, there are other solutions that apply internationally, not only for travel to or from Sweden. The United Nations Civil Aviation Organisation, ICAO, recently agreed an agreement on emission limits for international aviation using instruments that will eventually enable a fossil-free flight. This agreement is an important step in reducing aviation's climate emissions, but without restricting people's mobility. It's important to focus. Transport is not the problem. It is not transport that needs to be reduced, it is emissions. Unfortunately, the government's policy focuses on reducing transport. The Minister for the Environment has previously expressed that an international agreement would be preferable to a Swedish airline tax. I share this view, and I assume that the government will also follow the line and interrupt the plans to introduce a Swedish airline tax. Unfortunately, the Minister for Finance's response here today and the comments she has given to the draft report give no indication that the government would be interrupting the plans for a flight tax. Since there is, in principle, no climate justification for introducing air tax both nationally and internationally, there is reason to suspect that this is yet another way for the government to increase taxation, that is, a purely fiscal tax which, at the same time, is hitting hard on jobs and growth, especially in rural areas. It engages in expensive and inefficient climate policy.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-214	Mr President, I would like to Air travel is the worst form of transport for the climate, yet aviation is the mode of transport that does not pay any climate taxes. This is a clear tax advantage for flights compared to, for example, cars. That, of course, is not reasonable. That is the reason why the government has set up the investigation and intends to introduce a flight tax. It is, of course, a way of reducing the climate impact of aviation. It is correct that the tax is part of the EU ETS. That is why the tax has been adapted to it. The government also works through the state budget to reduce the number of allowances in the EU with the unique system that has been introduced with the climate brake – we buy in and cancel allowances. The government is pursuing an active environmental and climate policy in these areas. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler says that the tax will hit hard on jobs and growth. I would like to point out that this is not the assessment that the investigation has made. On the other hand, the Moderates may make that assessment. It is an assessment that the Moderates have made in practice on all the tax increases that the government has introduced. I have stood here hour in and hour out during interpellation debates where the Moderates have said that the increase in employers' contributions for young people would hit hard at jobs and growth; the downscaling of the ROT deduction would hit hard at jobs and growth; that the really rich would not get a job tax deduction would hit hard at jobs and growth; that the breakpoint changes that have not been implemented would hit hard at jobs and growth. But in the autumn's Moderate Budget Movement, you have accepted all of this. Now you think it's great politics. I guess it'll be the same with the airline tax eventually. I would also like to point out that there have been 120 000 more jobs since the government took office and that youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years, despite Moderates' talk that our policy is hitting jobs and growth. I think it's about this treasure too.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-219	Mr President, I would like to It becomes clear, however, when you listen to the Minister for Finance that it is transport that is focused on reducing, not emissions. That is regrettable. What has been suggested here is that we would not think it is important to reduce emissions. Nothing could be more wrong. I have had a debate earlier today with the Minister for Climate Change on the effectiveness of climate policy. I note that the measures we propose are 50 times more effective in terms of the emission reductions that can be achieved compared to the measures taken by the government that are expensive, especially in the climate category. The problem with the air tax in terms of climate and the benefits it makes is that it is even more expensive than the already expensive climate life. Emission reductions range from 0.08 million tonnes to 0.2 million tonnes per year, including high altitude effects, according to the investigator. It would give tax revenue estimated at 1.8 billion. This means that the price tag that rural travellers have to pay will be at least SEK 9 000 per tonne of emission reduction. In the worst case, it is over 20 000 SEK per tonne of emission reduction. Let us assume that it will be the best option. The cost will then be SEK 9 000 per tonne of CO2 emissions that rural travellers will have to pay. It is therefore 150 times less cost-effectiveness than the international climate action means, for example, clean development mechanisms, CDM, where 1 tonne reduction costs SEK 60. 150 times lower cost efficiency! It's 150 times worse for climate than you could get for the same money. The Minister of Finance is therefore prepared to take off rural residents, who have no alternative but sometimes have to go to Stockholm, 1.8 billion to achieve a very limited climate effect. It is difficult to interpret this in any other way than that this is about seeking to collect money. This is not about any climate benefit. The fact that the Minister of Finance has no order for public finances and that we do not care very much about the welfare of taxpayers has been recognised in the past, but it is becoming increasingly clear that the government is not really interested in taking responsibility for the climate either. You are engaged in expensive and inefficient symbolism policy. This is about 150 times more expensive emission reductions with the aviation tax. In a comment the other day, the Minister of Finance said that the tax has a good distribution profile. The tax would to a large extent be paid by people in the Stockholm area and the big cities. I think that's a strange statement. My experience is that the travel, at least the travel of workers, is much larger from the country into Stockholm than the other way around. My own experience from Ängelholm Airport is that there are three flights in the morning from Ängelholm to Stockholm before the first flight has left Stockholm. There are more travelers who need to go into the capital sometimes. Finansminis tern wants them to be punished by paying SEK 1.8 billion in an extremely inefficient tax if we look at the climate benefit that the tax would bring. What is the government's motive for introducing the tax? In fact, the climate benefit cannot be the answer.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-228	Mr President, I would like to Let me first comment on order and order in public finances. I would just like to point out that in the two years that I have been in charge of public finances, there have been surpluses in public finances. The previous four years of the alliance government were public finance deficits. It sounds terrible if Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler thinks that the money would disappear, that you pay airline tax and the money then disappears into nothing and does no good. Of course, that is not the case. The money comes to the Swedish people through other important contributions. If you want to support jobs, entrepreneurship and growth throughout the country, it is hardly the most effective way to subsidise flights by not having to pay taxes. It is hardly the most effective way of supporting jobs and growth throughout the country.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-231	Mr President, I would like to Now it becomes very clear, because now the Minister for Finance basically says as it is: This is not about climate benefits. This money is useful and can be used for other purposes. It is therefore a purely fiscal tax. The Minister of Finance wants to collect this money to use it to plug other holes in the budget. Well, at least we got it clear. We thank you for that. As far as public finances are concerned – I just have to mention it, although that is not what this is really about – so it is that the government has a budget deficit for 2017 while we have a budget in balance. During the alliance years, when we, as the Minister of Finance, always refer to, were in deficit, what the Minister of Finance already knows was recession. It was also the case that every year the Social Democrats delivered a budget motion with more deficits than the Alliance government had. You had an average of 15 billion more deficits than the Alliance, so that argument actually rings very falsely. Moreover, there is a risk that a flight tax will create some interesting effects. The question is how effective such a tax would be even in terms of what it is intended to contribute to. A plane tax on international flights. What do you think happens then? Well, there would likely be a lot of interesting side effects. Long-distance flights, such as to Thailand, would suddenly start to travel via Helsinki, for example, if you travel from Arlanda. The United States trips would suddenly stop landing in Copenhagen because it would be a way to escape this treasure. The tax would be very inefficient even from that perspective because it would not be very accurate. There are ways to get away from it. In addition, the tax would hit airports in Öresundsregio, such as Sturup and Ängelholm, where you can easily go to Copenhagen and fly from there instead. It is an expensive and inefficient measure, and rural areas pay the price.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-237	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that Jonas Gjörtler and I have different views on the need to strengthen public finances. It is not least noticeable that there were large deficits during the years when Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's party was in government position. When Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler talks about balance in 2017, he does not take into account that there are some miscalculations – or optimistic assumptions – in the budget of, for example, dynamic effects in terms of travel deductions and other things. Let's get back to the question. The reason why the government wants the tax is that aviation has a clear tax advantage. We want to reduce that tax advantage. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler fights for it to continue to be such a tax advantage. On the other hand, Jonas Gjörtler and his party friends have fought for a great many tax issues in this House in recent years. Then, once it's done, you've thought it's been very good politics. These include increased taxes on high-income earners, employers' contributions for young people, the ROT deductions, the layer limit and a range of other tax issues. The Moderates have been huge opponents of this, but now they think it is the best policy there is. Won't that be the case with the airline tax? Can Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler guarantee me that? When this treasure is introduced, will Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler and the Moderates go to elections to abolish the airline tax? Can you make that promise? The point of the tax is to reduce climate emissions from aviation. Of course, it is welcome that it also gives money to the treasury so that we can strengthen the common welfare. But here, the Moderates and the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government have different ambiences in how to secure our children's upbringing.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-242	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked the Minister for Labour and Establishment how she believes that jobs and the labour market will be affected by increased tax on labour in times of digitalisation. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Increased digitalisation of society presents challenges but also opportunities. The Government has launched the Smart Industry strategy, where one focus area is the digitalisation of industry. In addition, the digital infrastructure is important for entrepreneurship and people's ability to participate in society. Sweden needs to renew its efforts to reach the goal of being a world leader in using the opportunities of digitalisation. The Government therefore intends to present a comprehensive digitisation policy. As far as taxes are concerned, it is important to also see the other side of the tax chandelier, that is, what the money is used for. The Government implements a number of initiatives that are deemed to contribute to Sweden's better equipped to meet the challenges of the future in the labour market, for example. For example, the government is investing in reversing the falling knowledge results in schools so that all young people will have a good base for the future. The government is also investing in a knowledge boost that will strengthen people's job opportunities and improve matching in the labour market. In addition, active labour market policies have been strengthened. In the interpellation, Niklas Wykman says that the investigation's proposal for an extra special wage tax on the financial sector is worrying for jobs in the sector. I would like to remind Niklas Wykman that his party in the 2017 budget motion stresses that tax collection from the financial sector should increase and that a starting point should be a certain increase in social security contributions.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-247	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance! I have great respect for the fact that Magdalena Andersson chooses to have a very ideological grant on this issue. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has repeatedly shown what is at the heart of the Social Democracy: you should have as high taxes as possible, the taxes that exist should be increased and new taxes should be introduced – all of which, of course, are collected under the ideological concept of socialism or social democracy, where as large a state as possible is the solution to most of society's problems. It is therefore logical for the Minister of Finance to want to introduce new taxes and increase existing taxes. It is also logical to respond as she does in the interpellation response. Then there are those who have completely different starting points: low tax or on many things no tax at all and that people who themselves are allowed to control their economy and retain the fruits of their work together and jointly build the best society. For those of us who do not find ourselves in either one or the other corner, who do not believe in very high taxes but also do not believe in very low taxes, but believe in a well-balanced tax system where there are driving forces for work and development, while at the same time giving opportunities to keep society together and guarantee each other the welfare we should have sounds the end of the finance minister's contribution a little strange. Regardless of what Social Democrats or Moderates have previously thought, if you are somewhere in the middle of politics, you can of course reconsider when you are faced with new facts. I have reconsidered my position, Mr President, on social security contributions for young people. It was a tax relief that would stimulate work but perhaps did not really have the effect that I and many with me had assessed and hoped it would have. Then you have to come back and make a new policy. What has happened since the Social Democrats introduced their position and the Moderates presented their budget is that there have come new estimates of how this tax would beat. For example Copenhagen Economics has estimated that the effect would be that we lose 16 000 jobs in Sweden. If you do not have the sharp ideological starting point of the Minister for Finance, it is perhaps possible for you to take on board such figures. I had hoped, Mr President, that the Finance Minister here would argue that these calculations are incorrect or incorrect and that 16 000 jobs are not threatened. Mr President, I would like to I was in Sundsvall the other day. There has been a large establishment of one of the Swedish banks which according to the information I received has led to about 150 new jobs. The truth is that Sundsvall is one of many cities where there are many different jobs in the financial sector that provide municipal tax revenue, school and care for the elderly. But there is now great concern, for these jobs can, with these taxes, very easily move to other countries. What happens to school and care for the elderly in Sundsvall, for example? In addition, concerns about the increased taxes are added. There's talk of airline tax. There's talk of mileage tax. It is a question of squeezing the smallest companies further, for example in the 3:12 framework. This creates great concern – perhaps not necessarily where you first think, in the big cities where there is a large labour market and some of these banks' most central services are located, but around Sweden where struggling people, companies and municipal politicians are trying to put together budgets but also everyday life. The Minister of Finance is threatening not only with the tax on those who get jobs in banks but also with airline taxes that may make it impossible to run companies. She threatens with mileage tax that makes it impossible to run a company. She threatens to squeeze the smallest companies into the 3:12 framework. It is not taking responsibility for the whole of Sweden.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-255	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Niklas Wykman that the government has not yet taken a position on this issue. We have set up an investigation; the investigation has been referred, and we will, of course, now look at the views of the referral bodies before taking a position. This distinguishes me from Niklas Wykman, who represents a party which has taken a stand on this issue. I quote from the Moderates' budget motion, which I assume Niklas Wykman has voted in favour of in this House: Today, the financial sector is exempt from VAT in EU countries, which contributes to lower taxation than for other parts of the economy. As in Denmark, a starting point should be to offset the tax burden by a certain increase in social security contributions in the financial sector. ..................................................... Are the Moderates and Niklas Wykman no longer behind this? I would like to remind you that the one of the two speakers who have taken a stand for such a tax is Niklas Wykman, not me.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-258	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Sweden, jobs, growth and welfare have very little to gain from the fact that we have a very confrontatory Minister of Finance. On the contrary, I believe that solutions should be sought and reasoning based on new facts. In this case, new facts have been introduced, so it is reasonable to discuss the 16 000 jobs that Copenhagen Economics considers to be under threat. This means that old positions can be reconsidered. One can consider whether they are correct, and one can weigh them against other types of solutions. A responsible Minister of Finance, who Sweden has previously had, would of course reason on this, come to the speaker's chair next door and discuss how you see the assessment yourself, what you think about the jobs and why the Moderates in that case are in fact wrong and why you yourself are prepared to reconsider. Unfortunately, Mr President, we see more aggression, rhetorical points and so on. The problem with sharp rhetoric and very confident perceptions is that it does not lead to more growth and more jobs and does not secure the financing of welfare. I think that we should have a more intellectual, reasoning and factual starting point for the discussion, rather than just attacking our political opponents – although we obviously want to win elections and occasionally pick points too, for the sake of the matter. The Minister of Finance would like to remind me of which party I am a member, and that is good, for everything in the world. But I can remind the Minister for Finance that she is responsible for public finances in Sweden. So it is the Minister of Finance who leads the country. It is, of course, gratifying in many respects that the Minister of Finance refers to the Moderates' budget as a kind of factor in how society should develop and be governed. If the Minister of Finance likes the Moderates' budget so much, I recommend that she support it as a whole. If she is not prepared to do so, she should probably not choose individual parts as some kind of factor for solving socio-economic challenges. The Minister for Finance should also consider how she thinks jobs should emerge in a new, exciting economic development: globalisation, digitalisation, opportunities to do, buy and sell services and goods in a completely different way from what has been possible in the past. What kind of requirements does it make for Sweden, Magdalena Andersson? How will Sweden and the Swedish tax system develop in a world where products and services can be traded and produced in a completely new way? Mr President, this question was originally addressed to the Minister for Labour. If the jobs are to grow in Sweden – in Sundsvall, Kiruna, Kalmar, which I come from and outside Sweden's big cities – it is about what types of rules need to characterize society in times of digitalisation, where a large part of service and goods production can just as well take place elsewhere. Mr President, I would like to I think it would be good for Sweden if the Minister for Finance could consider approaching that question and starting a discussion. Why not have a broad and unconditional discussion about such a thing? Sweden is a country that has worked well for a long time, both under many Social Democratic governments and, whatever the Minister for Finance says, also under the latest alliance government. So why be so confrontatory? And why not be a little intellectually curious about this great challenge? We used to have a minister of the future. She certainly got fired from the government, but she was talking about these very questions: How are jobs going to be more? How are we to tax work in the future, when it can be moved so easily to other countries? Mr President, I would like to I am a little disappointed that the Minister for Finance cannot at least endeavour to give some reflection on the question itself in the interpellation.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-268	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is good to be able to reconsider our positions, but on this issue Niklas Wykman has stated his position; I have not yet done so. So someone is going to reconsider it is Niklas Wykman. I've set up an investigation, received it and sent it to you for a referral, and then the government will take a stand. Our intention is to introduce a bank tax in one way or another. Then you can discuss how it should be designed. But it is Niklas Wykman who has taken a stand in favour of having a tax on employers' contributions. So I was somewhat amazed when I received this interpellation. Of course, I find it exciting to come to Parliament and answer a question about what are the disadvantages of a tax that Niklas Wykman himself proposes to introduce. Of course, it is also important to reflect and reconsider. Youth unemployment contributions are an issue that Niklas Wykman has reconsidered. Now that he has the chance in the speaker's chair, perhaps he can also tell us why he has reconsidered the downscaling of the job tax deduction, which I understand he has been very critical of, but also the limited list of layer boundaries, which the Moderates now think is good policy, and the change in the ROT deduction that the government has introduced. The question of how to fight for jobs and growth in Sweden in the future, also in a time of digitalisation, I devoted my interpellation response to. I explained both what challenges there are and what initiatives the government is making. Around the world we see a trend: Many works can be taken over by robots in different ways. Self-driving trucks, for example, will revolutionise the transport sector completely. In other areas too, robots will have a major impact on the future development of the labour market. Against this background, the government has made very substantial efforts to improve further education and training opportunities, but also to raise the general level of education. We know one thing: when the economy and technology change, a good educational background makes it possible for people to have good opportunities in the transition. That's why the government has invested 10 billion in dedicated support for the school. We have 50 000 more training places next year than before, and we are trying in different ways to reinforce matching in the labour market. But let us now hear about Niklas Wykman's review of income taxes and ROT!
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-274	Madam President, I would like This is the last speech, I believe, and I think there are three contributions to interpellation debates. It's been so long since I've asked an interpellation. This government has during the autumn had so many others to discuss their policy with: Konjunkturinstitutet, Ekonomistyrningsverket, SKL and others, who have failed it. I have therefore not felt that my efforts in this area have been as sought after as before and wanted to make sure of the regulatory framework. Madam President, I would like I am a little saddened by the Minister for Finance's reply: that she cannot get into the substance of the matter. I understand that the Minister of Finance wants to reduce any such debate to party politics and try to score individual points. She is well aware of how budgetary work, both in government and opposition, works, so I think it is most tiring the voters. One is probably more curious about how the jobs will actually be more than how individual parties stand in different tax matters. Now that the Minister of Finance has pointed out the direction of financial taxes, air taxes, kilometre taxes and reduced taxation of entrepreneurs, the Swedish people naturally ask themselves the question: How can I get a job in this economy? The job I have, for example, with answering the phone at an internet bank, the Minister of Finance wants to make more expensive. But that job might as well be done from Lithuania, Estonia or Germany, which does not have this tax. When the tax on entrepreneurship is raised, of course, the question arises as to where the jobs will emerge where their own children will be able to find employment in the future. When the airline tax is raised, you ask yourself in my home town of Kalmar, Sundsvall and elsewhere how the companies can remain when it becomes more expensive to fly. I listened to Sweden's biggest company the other day, who told me that when they make investment decisions, it is clear that such a tax will matter. Why should you invest in Sweden when it is cheaper in all other countries? I think that this type of question should be answered by the policy.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-279	Madam President, I would like Anyone who answers the phone at a bank somewhere in Sweden should of course be worried about Niklas Wykman, because he has taken a stand for such a design of the tax. The government has not yet taken a stand. Therefore, this interpellation is a bit strange. Niklas Wykman has often been worried about economic development with this government's policy in the speaker's chair. After two years, we are now beginning to see the result: 120 000 more jobs, the highest employment rate ever measured by Eurostat in any EU country and the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. We have turned the major deficits we inherited from Niklas Wykman's time at the Ministry of Finance to last year being in balance, and according to the Swedish Financial Control Agency we will be in balance again this year. We have the highest housing building since the days of the million-dollar program. Developments in school have turned around. Of course, students, teachers and principals should have the credit for this, not any politician. But we see that this government's policy, in which we have turned the politics of the Moderates – with constant tax cuts, mostly to those who serve the most, increased gaps and privatisations – into a development where we strengthen Sweden and build the future together.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-282	Madam President, I would like Tina Ghasemi has asked me what measures I intend to take to minimise the risk of conflict between parents who cannot agree on maintenance support on their own. Lotta Finstorp has asked me what initiatives or measures I and the government intend to take to minimise the risk of conflicts between parents in connection with maintenance support. Tina Ghasemi has previously put a similar parliamentary question to me, and I have then explained that the overall objective of the new rules for maintenance and maintenance support is to increase the regulation of child maintenance outside the maintenance support system. The maintenance allowance is not intended to be the primary means of regulating the maintenance obligation but must ensure a reasonable livelihood for children when, for various reasons, the dependent parent fails to comply with its maintenance obligation. The starting point is that the maintenance obligation should be regulated through a civil-law maintenance claim and that the maintenance support should complement this. In many cases, if the maintenance obligation is met through maintenance, it means a higher amount of maintenance for the child than the maintenance allowance does. This is particularly true for children in households in the lowest income groups. These starting points and objectives should be endorsed by the interpellants, as they are based on the proposals referred to by the Alliance Government in spring 2014. The studies carried out by the inquiry showed that there are significant gaps in the knowledge of orphan parents on maintenance regulation and that a not insignificant proportion of parents regulate maintenance obligations through maintenance support, although they are in a financial position to regulate them directly between them. The above mentioned consultation memorandum Increased support for maintenance regulation shows that for about half of the parents who are liable for the benefit who have the ability to pay the full amount of payment, Försäkringskassan acted as an intermediary who transfers maintenance between the parents. Many of these parents should be able to regulate maintenance themselves. Against this background, the new provisions mean that in cases where the parent liable for benefits has completed payments to the Social Insurance Office for at least six consecutive months, maintenance support shall no longer be provided unless there are special reasons. The starting point is that maintenance should be regulated directly between parents. Parents can turn to Försäkringskassan for advice and the support they need in matters relating to the child's livelihood. There is, among other things, the possibility of a personal web meeting with specially trained administrators. There is also a calculation tool on the web where parents themselves or with the support of Försäkringskassan can calculate maintenance. According to information provided by Försäkringskassan, parents' interest in the information and support now available has been high since the reform came into force in April of this year. However, just as the interpellants put forward, there are cases in which, despite the fact that the parent liable for the benefit fulfils his obligation to pay to the Social Insurance Agency, it is neither appropriate nor possible for the parents to handle the maintenance themselves. Therefore, if there are special reasons, maintenance aid should still be available. Where there are special reasons, such as threats or violence, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will continue to be able to provide maintenance support. Special reasons may exist in relation to the situation of the child, the resident parent and the dependent parent. When examining for special reasons, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency needs to pay attention to whether there are obstacles to cooperation between parents, for example if there is confidentiality protection of different kinds. The withdrawal of maintenance allowance is intended to address cases where parents have real opportunities to deal with the maintenance issue for their children themselves. This is also reflected in the preparatory work on the new rules. If the payments for maintenance between parents do not work for various reasons, the resident parent has the right to apply for maintenance support again. The maintenance allowance is thus still intended to serve as a guarantee that the child will receive reasonable support if the dependent parent fails to comply with his or her maintenance obligations. The main aim of the reform is to encourage parents who are in a position to do so, to regulate maintenance obligations outside maintenance support. It is not reasonable to believe that all parents have such conditions, just as not that conflicts can be entirely avoided. It does not seem to be a viable way to try to improve the conditions for increased parental cooperation through changes in the maintenance regulation framework alone. The situation and context affecting the ability of parents to cooperate often arise in many more respects. The starting point is that parents are primarily responsible for providing for their children. If parents have difficulties in shouldering this responsibility, the State should offer parents support to the extent necessary to enable them to fulfil their obligations. Since 1 July 2014, there has also been an opportunity for parents to discuss issues related to the livelihood of children within the framework of municipal cooperation discussions. During the period of at least six months that runs before the withdrawal of maintenance support can take place, the Social Insurance Agency should have had a dia-log with the parents about the possibilities to regulate maintenance outside maintenance support. There is therefore still the possibility of allowing the Social Insurance Agency to act as an intermediary for maintenance regulation where there are threats or violence between parents or in relation to the child. This reform has been important in improving the economic environment for children with divorced parents, who often live in households with a low economic standard.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-292	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Almost exactly a year ago, I stood in this speaker's seat and was concerned about the government's proposal for new rules for the payment of assistance. Even then, I warned the government that the new rules would be conflict-driven, affecting women and children in particular. Unfortunately, my fears seem to come true. On 1 April this year, the changes took place. In substance, the new rules mean that a parent who has paid maintenance at the right time for six consecutive months no longer has to pay through the Social Insurance Agency. This may seem like a trivial adjustment of the maintenance support rules, but in reality this is hard on women and children. Even now we can see that women's shelters around the country are warning against the new rules. In view of this, I have asked for the debate here today. A separation between parents is often a tearing process. Every year about 50 000 children are involved in a family separation. For those parents who take the main responsibility for the child after the separation, the concern is often about making the economy go together, and here maintenance support plays an important role. On the one hand, it shall ensure that the child's needs are met and, on the other hand, it shall ensure that the absent parent assumes his or her financial responsibility. In the event of separation, the children's right to maintenance is regulated by two regulations. One concerns the maintenance allowance, which the parents agree on themselves, and the other concerns the maintenance allowance, which is administered and paid out by the Social Insurance Agency. The level of maintenance support is highly normative even among the parents who do the maintenance without the Social Insurance Agency's involvement. Many parents have chosen maintenance support, as the rules on maintenance are relatively complex. For parents who do not agree, the alternative is to decide on maintenance in court, which is often time-consuming, exhausting and very expensive. The outcome is also uncertain. For many, therefore, it has meant a great deal of security that the Social Insurance Agency has taken care of the payments. I also note that the new rules that have been introduced unfortunately do not solve the basic problem of absent parents who do not fully assume their financial responsibilities. On the contrary, there are clear indications that one of the major problems with the previous rules, namely that they appeared to be conflict-driven, even worse after the changes in force. Many single parents, the majority of whom are women, have expressed concern that regulatory change leads to conflict and non-payments. In addition, many of the country's women's shelters have warned that the new rules may have directly dangerous consequences in cases where separated mothers live under threat and violence, as the Minister mentioned. In these cases, the economy can become a way for men to exert pressure on women and take control of their already vulnerable situation. This is the result of the disappearance of supervisory supervision now that the Social Insurance Agency is no longer acting as an intermediary. Madam President, I would like On this point, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Security what measures the Government intends to take to minimise the risk of conflict between parents who cannot agree on the maintenance allowance on their own.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-300	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Tina Ghasemi has very well explained the concerns we feel about the new maintenance and maintenance scheme. There is absolutely a good intention with the new order, but it is not as simple as it seems. The background to Försäkringskassan's mission is that if the parents agreed more on maintenance support, many children would receive significantly more money every month than they currently receive in maintenance support from Försäkringskassan. The Social Insurance Agency believes that 90 percent of children in the lowest income groups could receive SEK 1 100 more a month if the cost and income of the parents were taken into account. After all, it is a very good intention that the children could get more money for their living, but why has the agreement between the parents not been made before? Because too many separations are so conflict - filled that maintenance support becomes a power factor for the paying parent. And who gets caught? Yes, of course it's the children. I've done several custody investigations in my professional life. When guardians in separation have an open conflict, children always end up in the line of fire. The conflicts are always about money and social relations, and the children get extremely bad when the two adults who most often mean the most to the children put them in terrible mental pain. Society must therefore make every effort to relieve children of debt, but with the government's proposal and the new order that prevails today, the effect can be the opposite. Now the parents will do the maintenance themselves, but just as Tina Ghasemi has described, many single people worry that it will lead to conflicts and non-payments. For separated mothers living under threat and violence, the situation can even become dangerous. It is both women's shelters and girls' shelters who warn about this. So far, the change has not been fully effective, so it is difficult today to know how this has actually happened. I think it is from October that the parents who have made their payments themselves will start to do this on their own. Today you can apply for maintenance support from Försäkringskassan, which means it is SEK 1 573. It is a basic guarantee to the child when the other parent has low income or refuses to pay the maintenance allowance. However, many have understood that these SEK 1573 are the norm for how much to pay, and that is why the government has implemented the change. I fully understand that, but we have another proposal that we believe would benefit children considerably better. Our proposal means that a certain percentage of the absent parent's income should go to the child and that it goes through Försäkringskassan. I understand the problem with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency administering this today and becoming an intermediary between parents who should be able to manage it on their own, but I have seen far too many children who have been caught in the grip when two parents have not agreed. I do not have a child impact assessment in the basis that led to the decision. If there was a child impact assessment, I am interested in knowing what emerged in it.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-310	Madam President, I would like As the interpellants point out, the situation is that about 43 percent of the 207 000 children who currently receive maintenance support from the Social Insurance Agency would receive more in maintenance if the parents themselves agreed on the amount. Just as Lotta Finstorp says, we can say that for the most deprived children, it could be about SEK 1 100 more per month, and that is a lot of money. I think we can agree that the situation we have today, where maintenance support has taken over completely and become normative in terms of child maintenance obligations, is not a good situation. Today, the Social Insurance Agency acts more or less as a bank between separated parents. Nevertheless, we must be able to have greater expectations and make greater demands on parents who separate to want to take the financial responsibility they actually have for children in separation. The aim of this has, of course, been to modernise the framework for maintenance so that it takes into account the child and the actual circumstances of the parents to contribute to the child's livelihood, as well as their ability to agree on issues such as this. The intention has not been to create anxiety or to put children and parents at risk. We in the government have listened to the views of the consultation bodies regarding the situations in which there are threats and violence, and we have approached them to ensure that the reform is effective and ultimately benefits the child. That is the whole purpose of the reform. Of course, as the minister responsible, I also intend to follow closely the development of this reform and how it will now be applied by the Social Insurance Agency. We have judged that the way in which we have formulated the preparatory work on legislation and the legislation itself, with specific reasons, means that the scope for interpretation is large enough to take account of cases where, for various reasons, it does not actually work for parents to regulate it themselves. The maintenance allowance is, of course, still intended to serve as a guarantee that the child will receive reasonable support if the dependent parent fails to comply with his or her maintenance obligations. As a resident parent, even with the new legislation, you will always have the opportunity and the right to apply for maintenance support again, even if a withdrawal has taken place. In addition, it is possible to grant maintenance aid one month retroactively, so that there is no gap in such a case. As has been said, we will follow this with great care, but at the same time we cannot turn a blind eye to profits. There are about 50 000 children affected annually by separation, and it is actually half a million children who have divorced parents in Sweden today. It is quite reasonable for us to make use of legislation that gives these children the opportunity to have the best economic conditions. That is why the government presented this new legislation.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-317	Madam President, I would like The maintenance support system has been subject to monitoring and review on several occasions since its introduction. For example, Försäkringskassan and Riksrevisionen have in several reports highlighted various problems with, and consequences of, maintenance support rules, which should be addressed. The Minister knows very well about the state inquiry Continued parents – about responsibility, finances and cooperation for the child's sake, which came in 2011. It found, among other things, that current family financial support is a conflict between separated parents. The investigation also indicated that maintenance support needs to be redeployed. As the Minister himself mentioned earlier, many children – four out of ten children – would receive more maintenance per month if their parents chose to calculate a maintenance allowance according to the standards of the parental code rather than allowing maintenance to be regulated through the maintenance allowance at Försäkringskassan. At the same time, we both know that the level of maintenance support is highly normative, even among the parents who do the maintenance without the Social Insurance Agency's involvement. The studies also show that there is a very small link between the income of the parents and the size of the maintenance allowance. Therefore, our view – as Lotta Finstorp mentioned earlier – is that an investigation should be set up, with the task of fundamentally redesigning today's construction with maintenance and maintenance support. Instead of trying to patch and fix a system that does not work, this should be done. We in the Moderates want to see another model. We want to see a more neutral, objective and predictable calculation of the size of the maintenance. The calculation shall be based on a certain pre-determined percentage of the absent parent's income to go to the child. The Social Insurance Agency shall administer the maintenance, calculate its size, pay it to the resident parent and collect the corresponding amount from the absent parent. With such a model, we would achieve two objectives. Firstly, we would strengthen children's finances, because the link between parents' finances and the size of maintenance would be strengthened. Secondly, the risk of conflict and discord between separated parents would be reduced, as the Social Insurance Agency would continue to act as an intermediary. The Minister himself has previously stated in reply to us here that it is not reasonable to believe that conflicts can be completely avoided, and that is of course the case. But why does the government choose to introduce these rules when there is actually a risk, as many have pointed out and emphasised, that they exacerbate conflicts and worsen the economic conditions for both children and women? At worst, this can also lead to violence. Why not look at the Moderates' proposal, which would strengthen children's finances and be a much fairer system?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-325	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for a very important debate. Theoretically, this is exactly how it should work, but my experience is that in reality it doesn't, more than in a number of parents. As the Minister knows, we moderated against the decision, partly because there will be two systems that will regulate maintenance, which may give rise to tricks between these systems. The person who gets caught in an unhealthy conflict is always the child. I still wonder what the Children's Impact Assessment looked like and how you used it for the proposal submitted to Parliament. In cases where the relationship has been conflict-free, this often depends – as the Secretary General of Makalösa Parents has said in an interview – on the fact that the payment has gone through Försäkringskassan and that you have not been able to handle the matter yourself. I am concerned that this may cause conflicts to flare up again in cases where conflicts have occurred in connection with the separation. Let's say it works for six months. The money is paid in spot-free. And then it'll be all over again. There are new adults coming into new relationships, which may lead to a new conflict. Then the child will once again experience these conflicts. I quote here what a child has written in an e-mail to Bris, about his parents: ..................................................... This is exactly what children experience in connection with too many separations. It is very traumatic, and I believe that society must therefore focus on relieving children of divorces. With the government's decision, children are even more likely to end up in a conflict that they have not asked for. Six months of some kind of peace is really a very short time. Most people can do it. Then it may tremble and become a new conflict. I have not seen that there would have been a child impact assessment before this proposal. Much was based on the fact that the Social Insurance Agency and its staff would be relieved of handling these matters if the parents could manage them themselves. I share the Minister's view that in many cases the Social Insurance Agency simply acts as a bank for parents, for adults who should be able to cope with this conflict-free, with the child at the centre and for the child's good. That's how it should be in theory, but unfortunately there are far too many cases where it doesn't work that way. When we were in the majority, the opposition always talked about the child impact assessments as soon as it was about matters concerning children. I am very interested in what the ruling was and what your children's impact assessment looks like. How will the decision be followed up? Has any evaluation been submitted in time?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-336	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Finstorp and Tina Ghasemi for good interpellations and a very important debate. We can well say that, in essence, we have a common understanding, and I am pleased to say, that we are trying to improve the situation, not least financially, for the children who are in the toughest situation. We are trying to find different ways to also improve maintenance support so that it will provide better financial support to those children who most need it. The bill that the government has now implemented is based on an investigation carried out under the Moderate-led Government, which was also the government that chose to refer this proposal. As the interpellants say, it is clear that there were referral points that were just about a concern about the situations where parents do not agree and where there are threats and violence. Consultation bodies called on them to ensure that these children would not be affected by new legislation, but that they would receive maintenance support, as in the past. This was taken into account when the government presented this bill. In response to Lotta Finstorp's question on child impact assessment, my view is that this is indeed something that we have discussed at the Ministry of Social Affairs throughout the process of presenting this legislation. On the basis of the consultation points that came in, which raised this concern, changes were also made to the wording. Visible reasons were changed to specific reasons as a basis for obtaining exceptions to this new principle in the legislation. The government's starting point is that this wording should be interpreted as being sufficiently wide to include threats and violence as well as difficulties in cooperation as a basis for being eligible for this exception for specific reasons. The Government believes that this interpretation should not be too narrow, but rather rather wide, on the part of the Authority. We will of course follow very closely how Försäkringskassan applies the new reform, and I know that follow-up meetings and dialogues with Försäkringskassan are already planned. We will take steps where we see that the reform is not being applied in a way that protects children of parents who have a conflicted relationship. At the same time, as I said, we cannot ignore the fact that we have half a million children in Sweden today living with separated parents. It's extremely common. 207 000 children, 43 per cent, receive maintenance support from Försäkringskassan. 90 000 of them could receive significantly more in monthly maintenance and a much better financial situation if this were regulated in civil law. We have therefore supplemented the legislation with the possibility for parents to receive support from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency when they draw up such an agreement. Basically, our intention is nothing other than the one expressed here by Lotta Finstorp and Tina Ghasemi. It's supposed to be about the child getting better.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-345	Madam President, I would like I would also like to stress the importance of this issue, and I remain genuinely concerned about these children and women. I hear what the Minister says, that we should ensure that those children and women who are at increased risk of being exposed to threats and violence will continue to be able to have an intermediary in the form of the Social Insurance Agency. That's good. Nevertheless, I think that the maintenance aid, as it is designed today, is attacking the wrong side of the problem completely. It does not solve the problem of absent parents who do not fully accept their financial responsibility. As we talked about earlier in the debate, and as you yourself mentioned, four out of ten children would be financially much better off if the parents could take care of the maintenance allowance on their own. That's it. But we all know in here that it is sometimes a question of unwillingness, and then it is important that we have a system based on a clear and legally certain principle. That is why my question about the Moderates' proposal remains. We would like to see a more neutral, objective and predictable calculation of the amount of maintenance, based on a certain percentage of the missing parent's income. That would benefit the children, not least. Finally, Annika Strandhäll, I hope you're right. You've seen the warning signs because they're there. And I hope you will take this debate with you, because here it is the children and the women who are affected.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-350	Madam President, I would like I think there are many question marks and I sincerely hope that the Minister will keep track of the reform, the new order, and that it will be evaluated after a year or so. There's got to be a time because it's six months. But it is important to really have the child perspective in focus in the evaluation. I will follow the question, because it involves me very much. If the payment of the maintenance allowance between parents does not work, the housing parent has the right to apply for maintenance allowance. But then it has been quite a long time, a long time of conflicts where the child has again ended up in a traumatic situation described in the e-mails to Bris: They seem to hate each other, so why am I? It's so heartbreaking. Horrible. It's a big trauma for the kids. And six months of a child's life is a very long time. It is true that six months have been chosen, but our proposal is much better to ensure that children do not end up in the middle. Then I wonder why such a large proportion of the parents turn to Försäkringskassan to use it as a bank. Is it because you don't have information? It should be in the interest of the resident parent to get as much maintenance as possible. Why is this the case? I would like the Minister to take on board our proposal, particularly in the evaluation that is hopefully being carried out, to be able to start with a percentage and that it is still the Social Insurance Agency that is taking care of this – for the sake of the children.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-354	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp and Tina Ghasemi, for a good and important debate! It is extremely important that this is an issue in which political prestige does not go, not least with regard to the child perspective, and that the objective is basically to improve the situation of the most deprived children and to avoid conflicts, threats and violence. That is why it will also be important for the government to monitor the progress of this reform so that we can see that it is moving in the right direction. Otherwise, of course, we must be prepared politically to reconsider our positions. It is good and important that we have a lively debate on the issue and that we ensure that it is on the agenda. There we are contributing to this kind of debate. This standardization has been strong for a very long time, to be really honest. My view is that today, in the event of separation, too many parents do not even consider the possibility of regulating the maintenance allowance in civil matters, even though some, at least intellectually, know that the possibility exists. It may also be perceived as complicated and conflict-driven. Therefore, we have supplemented the legislation with specially trained administrators at Försäkringskassan who should be an intermediary. Of course, I am taking with me the concerns expressed by the representatives of the Moderates here today and will have their thoughts in mind as we now follow up on the operation of this reform. Thank you for a good debate!
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-360	Madam President, I would like Johan Forsell has asked me what I intend to do to reduce the differences between the different parts of the country. Sick leave has historically varied widely between the different parts of the country, and variations have been studied on several occasions. Part of regional disparities can be explained by socio-economic and demographic factors as well as by differences in the structure of local labour markets. However, these factors cannot explain the complete variation between regions. At the same time, we also know that regional differences tend to increase as the sickness benefit rate increases and to decrease when the sickness benefit rate decreases. The government is working to ensure that sick leave reaches a long-term low and stable level and has therefore set a target for sickness benefit to fall to 9.0 days by the end of 2020. To achieve this, the sickness benefit rate must be reduced in all counties, regardless of the previous level. It is gratifying that Försäkringskassan has now announced that sick leave is no longer increasing and that in their latest forecast they expect the sickness benefit rate for the kingdom to turn downwards within a few months. The Government has also stated in the action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave that knowledge about the mechanisms behind sick leave needs to be increased. Within the framework of the action programme, the Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan and the National Board of Health and Welfare to increase knowledge about sick leave practices. Part of the assignment is to analyse the existence of possible differences in sick leave patterns and practices, such as differences in the period of sick leave for the same diagnosis between counties, municipalities and health care units. The government has taken a number of measures to break the negative trend in the development of sick leave and is now beginning to see positive effects of that work. In order for more people to have a healthier working life, all actors involved must work together. It is therefore very gratifying that the social partners, on the initiative of the Government, have signed declarations of intent with a view to achieving healthier jobs. More remains to be done, however, and, inter alia, depending on the outcome of the mission that I mentioned earlier, the government will consider whether there is a need to take action to address any differences in sick leave practices.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-367	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I wrote the interpellation against the background of the large regional differences in sickness absence in Sweden. It's hard to find a natural explanation for them. For example, Östergötland has a very low sickness benefit rate, which is positive, while Örebro County has a much tougher situation with a higher sickness benefit rate. So these are two nearby counties. It is difficult to find an exact explanation for why this is the case, and it remains a serious problem as long as development is not broken. From the individual's perspective, sick leave leads to a deterioration of private finances, and a long absence from working life can lead to a deterioration of contacts, fewer friends, etc. We also know that this risks being inherited. Unfortunately, children of parents who are on long-term sick leave tend to suffer to a greater extent than others. A high level of sick leave also puts public finances under great pressure. This is exactly what we are experiencing now. Expenditure on sickness benefit and rehabilitation has increased by nearly SEK 10 billion over the past two years and amounts to around SEK 42 billion this year. There is a lot of money and a serious development that we are already seeing forcing away other central welfare efforts. Let me be clear that it is not people in sickness who are threatening the financing of welfare. However, health insurance with rapidly increasing costs and without adequate control will crowd out other important welfare efforts. The Social Insurance Agency has taken a number of measures over the last year, which I welcome. For a long time, the Moderates have pointed out the importance of maintaining and strengthening the rehabilitation chain. An important part of this is actually to carry out the checks at 90 and 180 days that have been decided on in the past but which have not always been carried out. The purpose of the controls is not to mess with people but to constantly test whether there is work capacity left. We must get away from the idea that you are either completely ill or completely healthy and ask if you can do other tasks. You may not be able to work 100 percent, but 60 percent or 50 percent. We must always try to see the work capacity that may remain. The Moderates have received a lot of criticism when we have said that control must be increased. But health insurance is just an insurance policy, and it should be used carefully. This is ultimately about taxpayers' money. I'm not really happy with the answer. I am, of course, aware of the Government's target of a nine-day sickness benefit rate by 2020, but I am calling for more concrete measures here and now and also for an analysis. What analysis does the government make of why we see these major differences? Why? I wonder what the government is doing more specifically to reduce regional disparities. Although absenteeism will decrease in general in the future – I'm saying a forecast ahead – this does not mean that regional disparities will decrease. I would like to ask the Government for an answer to these questions.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-381	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Forssell for the interpellation. Yes, that is indeed worrying. When I took office as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014, the sickness benefit rate had increased by 55 per cent since 2010. The costs had increased from EUR 21 billion in 2010 to nearly EUR 40 billion in autumn 2014. It has therefore been one of the government's most priority areas to reverse this trend. A little more than a year ago, the government launched a broad package of measures aimed at both the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and employers and health care. These 25 different actions have been implemented over the past year. In addition to the fact that we previously removed the time limit, an important measure has been to strengthen the trials at the 90- and 180-day limits. Between 2010 and 2014, the number of trials at the early borders of the rehabilitation chain fell by nearly 50 per cent. Just as Johan Forsell says, the trials should not be used in a way that means that you mess with people. It is about making proper tests of whether the individual has any work capacity and whether there needs to be any support to enable him to get back into the labour market. Studies of mild to moderate mental illness, which dominate sickness absence, show that the really early interventions, actually before the 90- and 180-day limits, are crucial. It is efforts that involve both health care and employers at an early stage in order for the individual to be able to keep a foot in the workplace instead of entering a full-time sick leave. The Government's package of measures also included renewing decision support for mental illness, one of the most common reasons for sick leave, in accordance with the latest research and knowledge situation. This is in place since October. It provides for a more differentiated approach to sick leave in these cases and for sick leave to be considered as a treatment method among others. We have seen regional disparities for a long time and they follow up on the ups and downs. Previous studies have indicated that they may be due to the local labour market and whether unemployment is high. There are also major differences in how doctors assess different conditions and thus medical prescriptions. There are also demographic factors. But this does not explain the whole picture. Therefore, the Government has given a mandate to analyse the differences in sick leave practices. It shall be reported back to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Government Office by 1 September 2017. Then we can come up with further measures where necessary.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-389	Madam President, I would like There are several things that need to be dealt with in order to bring regional disparities in order. It has been going on for a long time, but that is no excuse for not making changes here and now. The problem has been growing for a long time, and for this very reason there is great reason to take action already now – not only to reduce sickness absences across the board, but to overcome precisely the major regional disparities. This is not about differences in the margin. Compared to different counties that have similar conditions and factors, the differences are very large. The government has given a mission to be reported sometime next year. I would have liked more concrete measures already to be taken because it often takes a long time. I believe that regional differences need to be met with a greater focus on legal certainty tests at Försäkringskassan; it is an important part. The law shall apply to everyone, and the law shall also apply equally throughout Sweden. It should not matter much if you happen to live in Östergötland, Örebro or for that matter Stockholm or any other part of our country. The Moderates have therefore proposed a special assignment to Försäkringskassan to follow up the actions of various administrators in the sick leave process. There is a Swedish study in this area that shows how individual administrators' attitudes affect health insurance and the process of sick leave. If the administrator is relatively positive about the current regulations, wants to meet current business goals and feels safe with key concepts in the sick leave process, everything else equal, the return to work will be accelerated. This is an area that must be prioritised by the Social Insurance Agency, including at individual level, i.e. that individual administrators' assessments must be followed up systematically. It is good that Försäkringskassan now carries out checks in a completely different way than before at 90 and 180 days. However, comparing the situation in different parts of the country is still an area where much remains undone. I wish the government could give a clear instruction to the Social Insurance Agency to do this right now, because we see that, unfortunately, it often takes a long time to turn the curves for sick leave, both in rise and decline.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-397	Madam President, I would like As I said, the government has implemented a broad package of measures over the past year. Sick absence is a complex issue. The government's objective is not only to control the situation here and now, but also to try over time to achieve a low and stable absence. There are significant differences, just as Johan Forssell says. I have figures showing that last year men in Danderyd were on average on sick leave 3 1⁄2 days, while women in Jämtland Ragunda were on sick leave 24 1⁄2 days. There are therefore significant differences. Not everything can be explained only on the basis of the working environment, demographic differences and different ways of writing sick, but there are other factors here. At the same time, with the measures taken by the government since access, we see that the flow of health insurance has halved over the past year, which has been an objective, through clear measures early in a case of illness, so that people will hopefully not get sick or be able to return to their workplaces quickly with the right support. This is gratifying. We are now much closer to reaching the Government's target of 9.0 by 2020 than we did a year ago. At the same time, on the basis of what I said – that it is a matter of achieving low and stable sick leave over time – we obviously do not intend to turn a blind eye to the issue of regional disparities. It is an important part of ensuring that we have equal opportunities across the country when it comes to the possibility of returning to health and work. It is important that we have up-to-date evidence to be able to make proposals. Previous studies from the early 2000s, when sick leave in Sweden was at its highest, point to the other factors I mentioned. That is precisely why I think it is important to add a new study on this, which we can use as a basis. I think the government is acting quickly. We're about to get the medical records under control. As I said, by 1 September next year, we will have a good basis for considering whether to proceed with measures to reduce regional disparities. It does not just have to be about the role of Försäkringskassan in this, which is important to point out. For example, it can also be about how employers invest in work environment and occupational health care and how access to equal care across the country looks like. This can provide a good and significant basis for bringing about change in other important areas, for more equal health.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-405	Madam President, I would like We're about to have another interpellation debate about mental illness. It is so fortunate that we will then go into a little more about how we view the situation right now. I want to raise a finger of caution to settle down and believe that there will be great progress in the future. I hope that this will happen-- I really do it with all my heart-- but let's remember that a prognosis is just a prognosis. It is well advanced and shows that the government will not reach its target of 9.0 days of sickness benefit. I think it deserves to be said that there are more uncertainties. For example, what will be the impact of the refugee crisis on social security and also on health insurance? You can back up the tape a little and look at how the consequences have been in a wide range of other areas, not least what we are debating almost daily in this House, namely the issue of new arrivals' homes. There has been a strong tendency among many to constantly underestimate the effects. But we'll see. The government often talks about equality and has high ambitions in this area. I think the government should not just push the issue ahead. It is good to be analytical and careful, but I think that one could already look at the Moderates' proposal to give an assignment to Försäkringskassan to follow up on the administrators' actions in the sick leave process. We will ensure that the law is applied the same everywhere. Why should a person in a county be confronted with other rules and be treated less well? The controls are actually there to basically make it easier for people to get back. Why should one county have a worse response to this than another? It is a good thing that investigations are being set up to obtain more information, but I would like to see action taken in this important area right now.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-411	Madam President, I would like As I said, there is no doubt that this is one of the government's top priorities. With regard to the issue of regional disparities in sick leave, I share the concerns and have the same ambition to ensure that they are reduced. At the same time, we have unequal conditions across the country, and we know that, depending on socio-economic background, we also have very unequal health conditions. This differs a great deal in terms of health between different parts of our elongated country, and I think we should respect that. That is not to say that the government is not going to move on with the issue, but we are going to get a good basis for doing so. Meanwhile, we are working intensively on all 25 different measures that are already under way and launched. If you look at the way the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is now working to achieve the Government's goals, you can see that they have broken down the target across the country, which means that no part will escape when it comes to reaching a lower sick leave and contributing to more people coming back to health and work. I look forward to our next debate.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-416	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell has asked me what I and the government intend to do to meet the development of the increasing mental illness. One priority for me and the government has been to halt the increasing absence of sick leave, which is largely due to increased mental ill health among women. To address this, action is needed in a wide range of areas. The government has a broad programme of measures that has started to deliver results. The number of new cases of illness is no longer increasing, and the onset of illness due to psychiatric diagnoses is terminated earlier. It is now important for me to follow up and, where necessary, develop the action programme. The research shows that workplace-related interventions shorten sick leave due to mental illness. An important part of the action programme is to ensure that action is taken in the workplace early on when an employee is affected by mental illness. The government believes in the Swedish model and has therefore offered the parties in the labour market to agree on measures to reduce sick leave at the workplace. The parties have submitted a declaration of intent for each sector. My assessment is that the measures announced will improve the opportunities for workers to return to work. In addition, the psychosocial working environment will improve. We will have healthier workplaces that do not generate sick leave. It is gratifying that the municipal and county council sector has come particularly far in its planning. It is in this sector that a large proportion of the women who are currently on sick leave because of mental illness have their jobs. For the government, it is particularly important that measures are taken for a sustainable working life before a sick leave needs to be made up to date. The new regulations of the Swedish Work Environment Authority on organisational and social work environment will be a tool for preventing social and organisational risks to the working environment and for clarifying the responsibility for these issues. In the OSH dialogue forum organised by the Ministry of Labour, the parties have confirmed the image that there has been an increased focus on these issues with the new regulations. Work has also been started within the Government Office to review how rehabilitation efforts for individuals can be strengthened within the framework of the rehabilitation chain. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has prepared new recommendations on sick leave periods for mental diagnoses. There is now a greater differentiation of sick leave periods depending on the severity and co-morbidity of the disease. There are more diagnoses where the recommendation is a partial sick leave or no sick leave. Mild first time depression is an example of when sick leave is not recommended. In this context, I would also like to mention that there are permits where the National Board of Health and Welfare recommends long periods of sick leave or considers that the work capacity is permanently impaired. In a sick leave discussion, it can be easy to forget those people who cannot return to work. As I mentioned, the broad approach of the government has already had an impact on the development of sick leave. Försäkringskassan's forecasts show that there are good conditions for achieving the targets set by the government for the sickness benefit rate for 2020. However, I am not content with that. My goal is that we get healthier workplaces and a low and stable sick absence over time. This is perfectly possible with the measures taken by the government and the work now being done by the social partners.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-425	Madam President, I would like I would also like to start by thanking you for this interpellation response. The background to my interpellation is that we continue to see a very worrying development in terms of mental illness in Sweden. There have been changes in recent years. Previously, it was more about the traditional conditions when you looked at the connection just to workplaces – knees that hurt, backs that ache, shoulders that can't handle lifting, etc. These conditions are still in and of themselves, and it is important to say so. Unfortunately, this is a problem that exists, not least for many women who work with rather poor employers who exist not least in the public sector. In addition to this, we have also seen another development, and it is sick leave due to a growing mental illness. As I said earlier, it is worrying for several reasons, especially of course for the individual who does not come to his own and who has problems with work and family and with everything that we in today's Sweden are expected to do. But it also puts public finances under great pressure. I would like to mention a few things just to make the background clear. Over the past few years, there has been an increase of 70 percent in the number of cases of mental illness. In the diagnosis group stress reactions and adjustment disorders, the increase has been 119 percent. So there has been a dramatic increase. At the same time, the situation regarding these mental disorders is complicated. We know today about how long it takes for a broken bone to heal. It takes about the same time for all people. We also know how a broken leg affects work capacity. When it comes to mental illness, however, it looks quite different. That is why we from the Moderates have said that we simply need to create a separate track in the rehabilitation chain that exists today for psychological diagnoses precisely because the deadlines in the existing rehabilitation chain are actually better adapted for the more traditional diseases. We believe that it is simply not reasonable to wait 90 days before taking a test to see if there are other tasks on the part of the employer that the person can perform. Nor is it reasonable to wait six months before highlighting the question of whether the person should remain at his current workplace at all. Perhaps it is better for everyone if the sick person changes place of work instead. And if the problems are very great, it may be better for the sick person even to change employers. We have said that for this we want to create a special transition track at Arbetsförmedlingen to offer support for changing jobs or employers and that the Social Insurance Fund's efforts for people in this group should be carried out by highly experienced administrators who specialize in mental illness, because this is complicated – it is not always black or white. This also needs to be done in order to strengthen cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan, because we believe that this is an area where there is still much to be done for Försäkringskassan. We have also put forward proposals to extend the scope for prevention. As I said before, you can't wait for a person to get sick. We must be able to provide support at a much earlier stage, such as the CBT or other preventive measures. That's why we've allocated half a billion dollars for it. I understand that the Government is also on the move on these issues and would like to reverse developments. My specific question, therefore, is how the government views the Moderates' proposal to introduce a new and better adapted rehabilitation chain for mental diagnoses.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-434	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Forssell for this interpellation on a subject that is extremely urgent. We see that mental illness is increasing throughout the country. This is the most common reason for sick leave for both men and women since 2006. Not least among young women, we see a strong increase in the proportion of people who end up in mental illness. Looking at public health as a whole, which is largely improving, this is the area where we do not see improvements, but vice versa. That is why this is a strong priority part of the package of measures presented by the government a year ago. As Johan Forssell says, this is an extremely complex issue that requires action of several kinds. This is why, in addition to the package of measures we presented a year ago, the Government has signed declarations of intent with all employers' organisations and all trade unions in the Swedish labour market. The focus of these declarations of intent and the commitments made by the parties is precisely on strengthening preventive work in the workplace but also on workplace rehabilitation. It is about starting to work more proactively with, for example, occupational health care resources in order to prevent work environments that risk creating a stress and ill health that leads in this direction. We have also received the new regulation on social and organizational work environment on the ground, which focuses on mental illness and on examining these working environments. We have contributed funds to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to strengthen inspections in the women-dominated activities, which are most affected. The government has also invested special funds in research on women's work environment. We allocate SEK 1 billion per year in 2016 – 2019 for interventions in mental health and mental health and have allocated special resources to primary care, which is often addressed. In addition, we have an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on a better process of supporting treatments of CBT teams and psychodynamic treatments in mental illness. We have contributed SEK 500 million for this. Much is being done today, but I also believe, as Johan Forssell says, that more might need to be done. Above all, I share the thought that when you come 90 days into a sick case, the probability of you returning to the labour market is greatly reduced. Therefore, I believe that much more needs to happen before you get to an activity by Försäkringskassan. The government will therefore return after the end of the year with proposals to strengthen the individual's right to rehabilitation early in a sick case. Then I'm not talking about the rehabilitation that comes after 90 days, but about the workplace-related rehabilitation, which will take place significantly earlier and as the research shows us is what is most successful in getting people back to work. That is where the government's focus is right now on action.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-442	Madam President, I would like I think you should be careful about taking out victories in advance. It is gratifying whether the forecasts will be fulfilled and sick leave turned down, but, as I said, it is only a forecast. What we know today is that sick leave has increased in Sweden. It has been doing so for a number of years. In the last two years alone, the cost of sickness benefit and rehabilitation has risen by SEK 10 billion, from approximately SEK 32 billion to 42 billion. It's a very big increase. It is also important to remember that a reduction in forecasts is not an already achieved success. A year ago, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency estimated that the cost of sickness benefit and rehabilitation would exceed almost staggering SEK 50 billion. This has been revised in the latest forecast down to SEK 44 billion, but it is still a very large increase if this forecast were to turn out to be correct. I would like to question whether what is being done now is really enough if we are serious about achieving the target of a sickness benefit of 9.0 days. I guess this prognosis shows you're not going to get there. It is good that we have a consensus that we have to do more. The question is what? We from the Moderates have proposed a broad reform package containing several elements. We are strengthening prevention and ensuring that people do not, as they are today, have to wait a long time to get the right help, but we are spending money on it. We have said that we must take strong action against the bad employers that exist. We want a reinforced control mission. It is, not infrequently, about public employers in health care, school and long-term care, municipal employers at county council level, etc. There are problems in other places too, but there is still an obvious difference. We also want to introduce a separate rehabilitation chain for these mental diagnoses that we are talking about today for the simple reason that the chain we have today is, above all, adapted to other illnesses. As I said earlier, we already know quite exactly how long it will take to get well for someone who breaks the leg. But when it comes to these mental diagnoses, you can't wait this long. It's too late to make a first check after 90 days. We seem to have a consensus on this, and I welcome that. The question is, what do we do about it? I very much hope that the Government will take on board the proposal that we Moderates have put forward. We think it can be effective together with all the other pieces to get a change here. Madam President, I would like Much of what has been said in the debate has been about cooperation with business and employers. We think this is a good thing, because we need employers on the train with us. At the same time, it is no secret that the government had actually wanted another proposal, namely cofinancing. I would like to ask whether the Minister for Social Security understands that there will be enough of these declarations of intent to overcome this. I'd like to question that. We have put forward the proposal for a separate rehabilitation track for mental illness, and I sincerely hope that the government will take it on board and look at the proposal.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-453	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have to be careful about this, and I can see that when I took office as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014, the sickness benefit rate had risen by 55% and the cost increased from EUR 21 billion to more than EUR 30 billion. As Johan Forssell says, the projected cost of sickness benefit in 2020 was EUR 52 billion. It's a staggering sum, and you have to have it with you that it is. Then we've been able to see that after the government has now implemented its actions-- because we're actually implementing measures in reality-- to overcome the increase that's been going on since 2010 says the absolutely latest forecast that we're going to land at around 40 billion by 2020. That is, of course, too much, but by comparison it is definitely moving in the right direction. The sickness benefit rate a year ago was projected to 12.7 by 2020. The government's target is 9. The latest forecast that I received from Försäkringskassan now indicates that it will land at 9,9 by 2020. Then the government's action programme is not yet fully implemented. We can see that the inflow into health insurance has halved over the past year. It should also be added that we have commitments from the social partners, in whom I believe a great deal and which are about achieving what was also the government's aim with the proposal for a health exchange, which we presented early in the year. It is important to point out, Johan Forssell, that we tabled a bill on health exchange because, in a situation where sickness rates increase, you cannot sit on your hands, but you have to do what you can. At the same time as the government presented that proposal, we also gave the social partners an opportunity to conclude such declarations of intent as an alternative. The government would then abstain from its bill. The social partners raised the thrown glove and presented this to the government. What has been achieved is actually what the health change proposal would achieve, namely to get more early action in a case of illness. It is my assessment that that is where this needs to be resolved. I have also noted the reform package that the Moderates and Johan Forssell are talking about wanting to present. At the same time, I can see that during the years you ruled, not least the last four years, sickness rates and costs ran out. You insured 100,000 people, but you didn't get control of the medical records. I therefore do not believe that people are being made healthier in the way that is in the Moderates' proposal and that it is about once again introducing a more distant parentheses which proved completely ineffective and which, moreover, is aiming at the wrong end of the illness. I do not believe, either, that with a threat of more days of withdrawal or a deterioration of the economy people will be made healthier, but that efforts will have to be made in the workplace and with those affected by ill health in order to get back to work as quickly as possible. Then the insurance will work-- that's one thing-- but that's not where we solve the problem of increasing mental illness.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-461	Madam President, I would like I strongly oppose the tendency of the Minister for Social Security to constantly use figures from different dates to try to prove different things. Can we not agree on the principle that we evaluate a government from its entry into government to its exit? The alliance government will then have a very strong reduction in sick leave between 2006 and 2014. That's the truth. It was a good development, and we produced it despite a fierce criticism throughout that time from the Social Security Minister's own party that the controls were too hard etcetera. That criticism came constantly during this time. So it is a little strange to say that we did not do enough. I think we did, and it is strange to hear that criticism from the Social Democrats in particular when one so consistently opposed any change on every point. I hope, as I said, that sick leave will decrease in the future. That would be positive, but a prognosis is just a prognosis. If the forecast were to be correct, the cost of sickness benefit and rehabilitation would have increased to SEK 44 billion in 2018. It's lower than before. At the same time, however, it would mean increasing costs during this parliamentary term by 40%. Is this the development that the Minister for Social Security welcomes and has been positive? I'm having a hard time getting behind that. We Moderates are not happy with this. We want to do more. We not only want to present a broad reform package, but I would like to point out to the Minister for Social Security that we have presented one. It's already on Parliament's table. It will be dealt with in this House very soon. We see that mental illness must be dealt with by means other than the traditional tools. If Annika Strandhäll also wants to do more to reverse the trend, I recommend that the government take a look at the Moderate proposals and the hand that we have stretched out.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-467	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Johan Forssell talks about the fact. I do not understand how we can get a development involving the fact that sickness rates have increased by 55% or that costs have risen from 21 to over 30 billion to be a positive factor. This has been done at the same time as, during the same period, for the first time in Sweden, a shorter time limit has been introduced in health insurance and 100 000 people have been insured. That's not a good idea. It's not the way to make people healthier. Once again, I think it is important to point out that, for the government, it is about trying to bring about a change, for real, and not just achieving a forecast of 9.0 by 2020. In fact, we will have jobs in Sweden where people are healthier and do not need to get sick. And if you fall ill, you should be able to feel financially secure and, secondly, receive support and help as early and quickly as possible, in order to get back to health and work again. That is the government's objective. We hope that in the future we will not have to have this highly varied sickness rate that we have had for a long time in Sweden. It's not good for anyone. The government will not resist. If good and well thought-out proposals are made, it is clear that the government will be happy to take them on board. But it has to be about solving this really, not just about making sure of people or reducing the economic conditions for the sick. Because I don't believe that. We're gonna figure this out. We're on the right track. We'll hopefully make it.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-472	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson from the Moderates has asked me whether I believe there is a need for guidelines on how to welcome the political youth associations to school and what measures I intend to take to ensure that such guidelines are drawn up. He has also asked whether there is work going on within the Ministry of Education or with the responsible authorities to overcome the widespread interpretations of the school's democratic mission, more specifically in the case of political youth associations. The school's main mission is to provide students with an education where they are encouraged to acquire and develop knowledge and values. It is the responsibility of the Vice-Chancellor and teachers to ensure that this mission is fulfilled. The school's mission includes preparing pupils for active participation in democracy. It is valuable that the school develops in close contact with the surrounding society. But the school isn't just any arena. One starting point for external actors to be able to operate in school in some way is that the school has assessed that it contributes positively to the school's activities. Students can meet, and be part of, political opinion-forming through school activities in different ways. It is up to each school to decide how the work on the democratic mission should be conducted. Part of the work may be to invite political parties or youth political associations to the school, for example in connection with school elections that coincide with the general elections. For example, by organising a debate at the school between political parties or a hearing of representatives of different political parties, several important democratic principles can be highlighted for students. Political information can, above all, have a natural place in the teaching of social-oriented subjects. According to the curriculum for social studies, for example, the teaching in grades 7 to 9 is to deal with political ideologies and how the dividing lines of the Swedish party system have developed. The subject plan in social studies for upper secondary school states, among other things, that democracy and political systems at local and national level should be central to teaching. According to the curricula for each school form, the teaching should be objective and comprehensive. The school should be open to differences of opinion and encourage their promotion. In teaching, the message of parties can be actively reviewed and discussed by the students. There is no provision in the School Act that states how schools should behave when it comes to inviting political parties or political youth associations. The legal framework for such an invitation is reflected in the principle of objectivity, which is constitutionally laid down in Chapter 1. Section 9 is the form of government. According to it, public authorities and others carrying out public administration tasks must respect objectivity and impartiality. How the principle of objectivity is to be applied in practice when political parties are invited to school has been interpreted through court practices and statements by the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. The Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, previously the Swedish National Agency for Youth, has published support material aimed at principals, principals and teachers who provide guidance on how political information should be handled in schools. Nevertheless, today there is uncertainty about how the school should deal with political parties. There is therefore a call for guidelines on how political actors can be welcomed to school. The political landscape is constantly changing. There are always new parties. In July 2014, prior to the Parliamentary elections, according to the Election Authority's website, there were 40 registered party names for elections to the Riksdag. It goes without saying that it is not possible for a school to invite such a large number of parties. Against this background, the Government decided on 21 August 2014, after consulting the parties of the Riksdag, to appoint a special investigator to analyse the rules governing how schools should behave when it comes to inviting political parties to the schools. The investigator would also consider whether the school should be able to limit the number of political parties received by the school on objective grounds. One of the starting points set out in the directives was the desirability of giving pupils in their education the opportunity to take part in political opinion-forming as part of the school's mission to prepare pupils to participate in democratic decision-making processes in society and working life. The study has submitted its report Political information at school – part of the democracy mission. The report proposes that a new provision, which is part of the principle of objectivity, be included in the Education Act. According to the proposal, it should be possible to limit the number of parties invited to participate in the training to all those represented in either the Riksdag, the elected assembly of the municipality or the European Parliament. According to the proposal, the school can also invite political parties from a different selection if the selection takes place on another objective basis. The investigation suggests that if political parties have been invited, students should be given the opportunity to obtain appropriate information from other political parties who have reported interest in participating as part of the education. The proposed provisions aim to provide more clarity on how schools should behave when it comes to inviting political parties or political youth associations. On 7 November 2016, the report was referred, among other things, to the school authorities and other relevant authorities, a selection of municipalities and county councils, the unions of teachers and school leaders, and to all parliamentary parties and their youth associations. Referees must have entered the Ministry of Education by 22 February 2017. The matter will then be further developed within the Ministry of Education and the Government Office as a whole.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-484	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for a detailed and long answer. That is probably the most detailed answer I have ever received in an interpellation debate. Maybe it's because the government has a background as a writer. The school is an important arena when Sweden's young people will shape their worldview and learn about democratic society. In the past, the school has also been a natural place for political ideas. It is often that an interest in politics and influence is raised at school. This applies from the young people who have joined a political party during a campaign in the mid-term elections and then ended up in a political committee in the municipality to – why not – Carl Bildt or myself. Today, however, we are seeing a trend in which fewer and fewer young people come into contact with political parties and their youth associations face to face. This is the result of many schools, after a decision by the headmaster, applying a kind of campaign ban or very rarely organising debates at the school. In this way, students lose the opportunity to debate, ask questions and review political parties' policies. In short, it is quite a blow to the democratic work that the school has as its mission to protect and develop. A common pretext for campaign bans concerns those undemocratic organisations that in some places try to hijack the political conversation completely and spread terrible hate messages in school. When I meet school leaders around Sweden, they are uncertain about the principle that they should apply. I can imagine that it is difficult to defend oneself against parties that are loud and represented in the school board when you are a school leader. It is a problem for individual principals that it is difficult to resist – I am fully aware of it – but the problem should be solved through national guidelines after the relevant authorities have come in with their referrals to this mission. It is clear that the talks that cannot take place at school are held in other forums whether you want to or not. Today it is mainly the internet that is meant. There we see a development where disinformation, heavily angled messages and fake news take more and more place. In a situation where this is undisputed, it can have quite far-reaching consequences. If the Government is going to read a book this Christmas, I recommend SOU 2012:74 which is about how small groups of people can completely hijack a political conversation online through effective methods. The school is supposed to be a place for knowledge and education. This calls for the political discussion not only to be analysed by reading about different ideologies but also to be practiced. Students must be allowed to bump and wet ideas against the parties' youth associations and against each other, preferably also with objective support from knowledgeable teachers, as the Government also writes in its interpellation response. It is important not only to combat ignorance but also to reduce the distance that otherwise risks coming between young people and democracy. I think at least the Minister for Education broadly agrees with what I have written in my interpellation. But I have a few supplementary questions about the interpellation response. As the Government mentions, the most common contact with political parties and youth associations is so-called school elections. Unfortunately, they usually only take place in connection with general elections every four years. This makes it difficult as high school, where most people talk politics and society, only lasts three years, so some unfortunately miss school elections. Is it something that the government takes with it in its further preparation, that it is not only about the forms of political dialogue at school but also that continuity must be enhanced?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-494	Madam President, I would like If the interpellant thought the answer was detailed, I can recommend reading SOU 2016:4. This is a much more complicated question than it might seem at first sight. That really proves this public investigation. Like the interpellier, I think it is important that the surrounding community is present in school and that the students constantly notice how what they are studying affects society at large. It really creates motivation for learning and makes it more real. It also teaches you to argue, question and critically review. It is broader than the participation of political parties' youth associations in school. It is good if you invite local companies, trade unions and representatives of interest groups to review and learn things that are within the school's mission. Then we rarely discuss the fact that someone with the opposite position or a competing company must also be given a place. Political parties have a special position through the objectivity mission of the government form. Already there you find that it causes a lot of trouble. This special status must not mean that just because you register as a party with the election authority, you automatically have access to all the schools in the country to spread a message that might be about selling a product or – as the interpeller mentioned – spreading hate speech. The small step of registering as a party must not mean free access to the school. For this very reason, it is important for me to emphasise that it is about the school's mission and the school's tools to see how the surrounding society supports the school in teaching knowledge and values. It must be the school that is the starting point, not the self-evident willingness of the parties to spread their message to young people. School elections are a case in point today. The need for an open approach to the outside world is just as important and that it happens continuously – that we exercise our democracy every day and not just one day every four years. The inquiry, which is being consulted, is based on the discussion that took place before the last election, when much of what is mentioned in the interpellation was brought up to date. It will be interesting to see if the outcome of the consultation will be that you believe that the investigation has raised a number of complex issues in school everyday life that are just updated every day and not only when it is a choice. There are schools in Sweden that work very well. In a school on Gotland, you have contact politicians in the Education Board as a way for students to be able to continuously tell about their reality. I have never heard that there has been any discussion about the fact that the whole board must be invited to the school, but it is the board that has decided to allocate responsibility for contacts with the school in this way. However, this type of regulation is in danger of making this work more difficult. If you study a particular issue in social science and think that there is a person who could contribute to this issue and that person happens to be a local politician, should there be specific rules for that person to be able to come to school? Should the school also invite municipal politicians of different colours or orientations? Whether the issue of everyday work in a school is sufficiently investigated in the SOU or not, I leave it unsaid. But it will be very interesting to find out about the referral. That is why it is important that it is not only the parties that speak, but also the unions of teachers and school leaders, because in the end it is they who should ensure that what is in the curriculum also takes place in a way that involves the surrounding society.
i-EpXeemf18RwARv9B9ofcYV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I agree that, in many ways, it would be possible to solve many problems only by spreading best practice, whether it is a matter of contact politicians in the school board or whether it is a matter of organising and inviting. There are indeed many really bad solutions today. I have been to quite a few school debates, and the way in which politics is concerned is quite fluctuating. Sometimes you invite political parties and use old email addresses that no one really checks, so that half of the book tables are empty. On occasion, organisations are invited, but then only two municipal politicians are aged 65 or over. It is not always possible to speak in young people's languages when you have been in the same board for 20 years and do not know so many other questions than the one you have debated yourself. On other occasions, youth associations and new members may be squeezed with established politicians. That's not entirely fair either. In a debate that I took part in in the run-up to a school election, the youth associations were invited by the student association, which was allowed to run the entire school elections. The student association decided to invite some parties to another time, so that they missed the school elections completely, which meant that the victim jacket was handed over immediately. It is also a rather awkward solution. In short, there are quite large variations, and it is not always that the problems reach the school board in the municipality in time. I would also like to ask the Government about the answer and what has preceded the investigation. Many initiatives have been taken in this area. The answer says: There is no provision in the School Act(2010:800) which states how schools should behave when it comes to inviting political parties or political youth associations. The legal framework for such an invitation is reflected in the principle of objectivity, which is constitutionally laid down in Chapter 1. Section 9 is the form of government. According to the latter, public authorities and others performing public administration functions are required to exercise objectivity and impartiality. ..................................................... Here is what has happened so far: a practical application of the principle of objectivity when political parties are invited to the school has been interpreted by court practice and by the country of the Ombudsman for Justice and the Chancellor for Justice. The National Board of Education, and the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society issues have published support material aimed at principals, principals and teachers, which provides guidance on how to handle political information in schools. Nevertheless, there is uncertainty today. ..................................................... What is it really that makes initiatives after initiatives not have the desired effect? At any rate, this has been discussed for as long as I have been politically active. It is an important issue to take with you. What has prevented the problem from being overcome? Is it the grip that we are taking now or the hold that the government has taken on from previous governments enough? Do you think that will be enough, or will we stand here in four years' time and realise that an even greater grip is needed?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-512	Madam President, I would like I believe that the reason why the initiatives that have been taken have not been clear is that there is an obvious clash between two solid interests. One interest is our starting point as politicians responsible for the school. We'll set the curriculum and syllabuses. Then it is the school's mission, mandate and responsibility to ensure that education and teaching correspond to curricula and curricula. The school has great trust and confidence in this. If you are based on this principle, it is the school that is simply allowed to decide which parties are invited as well as how, where and when. It would be perfectly okay to say: we have a debate on a topical issue in the municipality and want to invite those parties that have taken the most clear or profiled position on the issue. This we think gives our students the most comprehensive picture to reflect on. Perhaps you can even invite only one politician and not allow someone else to disagree, but let the students do so. Their mission will be to question the politician after preparations. This could be correct from the point of view of fulfilling only curricula and curricula. But we also have the principle of objectivity in the Constitution, which is about how authorities and those operating in the public administration should carry out their duties. There are demands for objectivity, comprehensiveness and impartiality. According to court rulings and statements by the JO and JK, these requirements are considered to be particularly strict or important. However, these statements have differed over time despite the fact that the wording of the government form was the same, and this complicates matters further. The requirements are particularly important in the case of parties. It has been considered important that all parties should have the same access, starting point and the opportunity to convey their message. Here's a crash. If we took the view that we usually have at school, we would never question, as I said, a teacher who, in his mission to disseminate work information, chooses not to invite all companies in the area. You might invite one per industry rather than competing companies to tell everyone why they are the best employer. Then you do not see it as your task that companies should be allowed to spread their picture of the work environment, but you see it as the school's task is to take part in different working environments. We would never question that. However, in politics, democracy and the parties, there are other principles, for reasonable and constitutional reasons. And there's a crash. As this clash exists, I am also concerned that a change in the school law, as the investigation suggests, will lead to interpretations and discussions. We may have to stand here again in four years. Some conflicts of interests will never be completely resolved, but will have to be addressed in reality. The investigator believes, however, that writing in the school law will be clearer and that it will help schools to have one. We have sent the inquiry for a referral to see if this opinion is shared by the school representatives, a number of principals and political parties. If they do, we have every reason to move on. However, when I leave this to Parliament, I will be clear that I do not believe that we have found an ultimate solution but that the discussions will continue – at best on a slightly clearer basis than before.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-520	Madam President, I would like It is perhaps difficult to find a reform in Swedish political history that has been complete or complete, which has worked exactly as everyone thought and which has led to gold and green forests. This is a political humility which I think we really need to have in view of all the changes. Regarding the mandate, the proposal and the amendment of the law that may come to Parliament's table, I would like to say that less than two years remain until the next elections. Until then, for natural reasons, time will pass quickly. You could say there's a fire in the knots. Personally, I am pleased that such an initiative has been taken and that the Red-Green Government has continued to do so. It is high time we tried to get to grips with this. Maybe it's an eternity project that never ends, but that's not an argument for quitting right now. There have been many well-meaning efforts. They have worked differently well, but as I said, there is no reason to stop now. I hope that the consultation round will be good and that the debate in not least the Committee on Education will be lively; the parties are involved. Otherwise, I would like to thank myself, which very rarely debate education issues, and wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-524	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation debate! As I said, the bill is out for a referral, and we are waiting for the referral. If they are perceived as support, we will definitely proceed with a legislative proposal. Should there be a big question mark as to whether this will remedy the problem or whether there is even a risk that it will cause new problems or make it more difficult, I will, like my predecessor did before he set up the investigation, conduct new talks with the parties in Parliament to see if, despite the criticism of referrals, we still believe that there is reason to proceed with a bill or if we are going to try another way.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-526	Madam President, I would like Karin Rågsjö has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure a good national supply of medicines through pharmacies and what measures I intend to take to ensure that the 24-hour rule is complied with. Several evaluations of the re-regulation of the pharmacy market have been carried out. As Karin Rågsjö points out, the results of the evaluations show, among other things, that the establishment of pharmacies has been the largest in larger locations. Evaluations also show that the availability of medicinal products in pharmacies has decreased in some respects. There are also signs that work on skills development has deteriorated, which in the long term may pose risks to skills and affect both the quality of advice and the safety of prescription processing. Even the set time for counseling is reported to have been reduced, which may increase the risk of misused drug use. Against this background, in autumn 2015, the Government appointed an investigation, which later adopted the name of the New Pharmacy Market Investigation, with the task of carrying out a review of the pharmacy market and, if necessary, proposing changes. The review shall be based on the follow-up and evaluation of the reregulated pharmacy market. Particular attention should be paid to measures aimed at improving the quality and patient safety of the pharmacy market. The focus should be to ensure a safe, efficient and equal supply of medicinal products and a pharmacy market with good availability and service. The commission of the investigation includes reviewing the current requirements for outpatient pharmacy permits. The investigation shall further analyse the reasons for the deficiencies reported in relation to advice at pharmacies. Particular attention should be paid to advice on the treatment of prescription medicines. In order to ensure a good national availability of medicines through pharmacies, the investigation is tasked with analysing and proposing any measures needed to ensure a good availability of pharmacy services throughout the country. Today Apoteket AB has a mandate in its owner's instructions to keep existing pharmacists until 30 June 2017 to the extent necessary to maintain a good supply of medicinal products at the place where the representative is active. The new pharmacy market investigation will review the regulation and conditions of the pharmacy ombudsman activities in order to create sustainable conditions for these activities. In 2013, specific support for rural pharmacies was established. The aim is to ensure access to medicines and advice on medicines via outpatient pharmacies in regions where the commercial conditions for operating pharmacy activities are limited. The dental and pharmaceutical benefit agency, TLV, is the authority that administers the support. TLV has decided to grant rural development grants to 36 pharmacies for 2015. A total of 38 pharmacies applied for rural development grants, half of which had negative results before grants. Include sparsely populated areas, only three pharmacies have negative results. The aid amounted to approximately SEK 9.7 million in 2015. The Government has proposed SEK 20 million for this purpose for 2017. The investigation shall follow up the efforts undertaken to ensure continued good pharmacy coverage throughout the country and, if necessary, propose further measures. With regard to the 24-hour rule, the investigation shall analyse any measures necessary to ensure compliance with the supply and supply obligation of medicinal products. This includes, in particular, analysing the need for measures to ensure compliance with the 24-hour rule. The study will also analyse whether there is a need for further measures to promote a high degree of direct processing or to improve the service provided when processing cannot be carried out. I look forward to hearing the investigation's proposals. Overall, I believe that the government, in particular through the decision to set up the New Pharmacy Market Investigation, is taking the necessary measures to ensure good availability of medicines throughout the country.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-535	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wikström for his reply. I know there's an investigation going on. We're very happy about that. However, we think it is good to raise this type of issue in an interpellation debate, because they are quite topical. Apoteket has a very central role, we think, when it comes to health care. It's not just any shop, so to speak. Time passes, but the problems of liberalisation persist. That's why we're moving on. The state pharmacy is sold out and won't come back. Now it is important to get availability and professionalism at all pharmacies. Apoteken has become a huge market. They are trying to find clever solutions, but perhaps more to increase the market than to satisfy customers. One example is the Heart, which is part of the Ica group. There customers can get points for their pharmacy purchases, but not for prescriptions. In this way, one should increase one's market share, so to speak. The Center and other alliance parties had a picture that there would be small family-owned pharmacies and so on. You can see that those pharmacies have not survived so much. It is the great dragons who have won the game. Perhaps the change was more ideologically motivated. It was based on the wrong starting point that the pharmacy is like any retail store and is not related to health care. But the pharmacy is part of the health care system. As the Minister pointed out, it is important to receive advice from a competent pharmacist as a customer. It's not nail polish you need advice on, it can actually be cancer medicine. Many customers have experienced that it has become more difficult to obtain prescription medicine. Many pharmacists say that they sometimes don't have these drugs in stock. It is obvious that the customer would like the medicine right away. Often these are medicines for severe diseases and special diseases. It is very difficult for customers to go out into the pharmacy jungle. Sometimes older people are also allowed to wander around among pharmacies. More than half of those who visited pharmacies in 2014 have experienced that the prescribed medicine was not in stock. We think that is a major problem. Statskontoret has also looked at this. They say that there are some practical conditions that have changed since the reregulation. On the other hand, there are very many pharmacies, and some are quite small. It's hard to keep stocks. On the other hand, you do not have information about each other's goods. These are competing pharmacies, and they want the information to be protected. Then somehow the market has taken over. These problems go again year after year. Now there's an investigation going on, but what do you think besides that? Can you say something a little spontaneous? What do you think you would have to do to get better access to medicines nationally through pharmacies?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-542	Madam President, I would like Yes, personally I can be spontaneous, but it is really uninteresting for the Riksdag. What the Riksdag wants to know is, of course, what the government will do, and the government will not be able to tell us about it until we have received the investigation's proposal on the table. The pharmacy market is extremely complex. This is exactly what Karin Rågsjö says. Many different actors are involved. The rule of law is not complete after liberalisation, because the previous bourgeois government was in such a hurry. The reason for this was that, for ideological reasons, it wanted to liberalise the pharmacy market at any price, even though it was not justified either for reasons of efficiency or for the part that people would have been deeply dissatisfied. We should remember that most people were very pleased with the state pharmacy monopoly. It was pleased to have the same chain all over the country, to be able to get service and to know that the pharmacy was not primarily driven by profit interests but for the benefit of citizens and patients. My own party, the Social Democrats, was strongly opposed to the liberalisation of the pharmacy market precisely because it was purely ideologically motivated. Now, together with the Green Party, I and the Socialist Party have the responsibility in the government to ensure that the pharmacy market we have in place works as well as possible. We try to do this through, among other things, this pharmacy investigation, which takes a very broad approach to the availability of medicines but also, of course, how pharmacies can play a greater role in the healthcare chain. Apoteken should not only be seen as a place where you can collect your medicines, but those who work at pharmacies should be allowed to use the full range of their skills in meeting patients and customers and be able to give advice on everything from medicines to ill health in general. I, for my part, believe that this is a development that will happen, whether we want it or not. However, as developments progress and pharmacies take a greater part in the health sector as a whole, the task of politics must be to safeguard equality, just as with other health services. All citizens shall enjoy this. It should not just come to some groups. That's also why we've set up this pharmacy investigation. Karin Rågsjö was convinced that the government has removed the tools in the pharmacy market. Yes, this was done to some extent in the context of liberalisation. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we still have a large, important and decisive tool left, namely the state-of-the-art Apoteket AB, which is already taking a great deal of social responsibility. That is something different from many of the commercial operators. But it is of course important to see how this role can be developed in order for the company to take even greater responsibility for society that a state company should take. I am very pleased that Karin Rågsjö highlights these issues, although there is an ongoing investigation and although I cannot deliver the concrete answers. The debate and discussion on the future of the pharmacy market and the aims and values we want the state company and the pharmacy market as a whole to have is important in any case.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-548	Madam President, I would like I'm quite pleased with what the Minister says, but I'm going to talk about this further. The problems have somehow moved on. I do not think that the previous government took this seriously. You could see pretty quickly where it led. When you are sick, you would like to have your medicine pronto, so to speak, not the next day, which is very strange. The various investigations, such as Statskontoret's, have addressed the factors that now mean that you sometimes don't get the medicine directly. As I mentioned earlier, there are smaller warehouses. It costs to have shops, especially in the inner city of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. There is a financial risk of stockpiling expensive and unusual medicines, there are limited return rights and so on. This is what Statskontoret is looking at, so to speak. They have looked at the number of customers who feel that it is difficult to get their medicine out right away. We're used to not having to wait 24 hours. There, satisfaction has decreased by 5%. It's not a huge reduction, but it's a decrease. Many people don't get their medication. Pharmacies also feel that their ability to provide prescribed medicine within 24 hours has deteriorated. 64 per cent feel that the conditions for providing their customers with medicine have deteriorated. It's a very powerful signal, so I'm very happy that the investigation is going to look at this. It will be a very interesting debate. I look forward specifically to hearing the views of the bourgeois parties on this. They see pharmacies more as retail than as part of health care. We have put forward a proposal on the problems of 24-hour delivery. It should be for the home, we think. But we can come back to that in another debate. Of course, if you live in a larger city, you are likely to be close to a pharmacy. You can run between pharmacies if you are healthy enough. It's quite obvious. But if you live in rural areas or in sparsely populated areas, it is much more difficult. Now I know that you have gone in with a fairly honest amount to make it easier in different ways, but there are still problems. We think that failing to hold 24 hours should be delivered to the door for the customer. That would be pretty good. People are also often sick when they need their medication. Maybe they don't want to go out too many times. Just as you say in your answer, most have a huge availability to pharmacies. However, the situation in terms of low and very low availability has not become much higher, if you can put it that way. Those people are pretty hard hit. It's supposed to be an equivalence across the country. Now I have a question as to whether the Minister will find it difficult to answer, but I am still testing my question. This is done in interpellation debates. What does the Minister think is needed to ensure that the 24-hour rule can be kept intact and work?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-557	Mr President, I would like to This is a question I regret to be unable to answer Karin Rågsjö. This is precisely because it is more complicated than just talking about storage and distribution, for example. It is often, as Karin Rågsjö herself is concerned with, about very rare medicines that may be requested only a few times in a year. It can be difficult for individual pharmacies, whether state or private, to store the product and to offer it to the customer within a reasonable time. The aim is for the 24-hour rule to apply. The investigation should turn and turn every stone to see: How can we ensure that the goal is maintained in almost every case? That is the objective both of the investigation and of government policy. However, I would like to go back to what we discussed recently and which Karin Rågsjö once again referred to, the pharmacy's part in health care. It is an exciting development that we have ahead of us where pharmacies will need to play a greater role in health care. The government is currently engaged in an initiative that I hope to present shortly. It is about establishing a common national list of medicines. We have different order despite the fact that Sweden is the country that in the world probably has the most e-recipes. About 98 percent of prescriptions for prescribed drugs are electronically prescribed prescriptions. The Government's ambition is to increase it to almost 100%. Although we have the high proportion, today it is difficult– it can be for pharmacists, but above all for doctors – to see: What medicines has my patient already received? Will the medicines I prescribe now clash with something that my patient has already been prescribed? How will the combination affect the patient's health and well - being, and such things? With a common list of medicines in place, prescribing doctors, other health care professionals and not least the patient himself get full control of their medicines. In this way, we hope to strengthen both the patient and the patient's rights and, of course, to give pharmacies a clearer part in the care chain. Not least, I believe that it will ultimately lead to substantial savings in terms of fewer breaches of patient safety, fewer falls, and fewer other health-related injuries. It is a big gain primarily for the individual patient but also for the health care and society at large.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-565	Mr President, I would like to We are really looking forward to the list of medicines. It should have been in place, like, yesterday, you might think. Finally, when you look at pharmacies, it is exactly as the Minister says. The pharmacy should be connected to the entire health care system. It's not a retail deal any time. One must somehow think about how to make them much clearer as part of health care. The smaller pharmacies are having a very difficult time surviving today. It was those pharmacies that the bourgeoisie and the Alliance highlighted and that would be small family-owned pharmacies. They disappear very quickly and are bought up by the great dragons. It is a question of equal conditions. I'm gonna get my meds out. Whether I live on Kungsholmen or in Kalix, it will be fine. These are important prerequisites for equal health and health care throughout Sweden. I would like to end the pharmacy debate with that.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-569	Mr President, I would like to I can end the debate by saying that it is very fun to debate with Karin Rågsjö. We are having a discussion about the health care of the future and now specifically what pharmacies and the pharmacy market can contribute to the health care of the future. I hope, as I have tried to emphasise in the debate, very much in the pharmacy inquiry that the government has set up. It will answer many questions. This applies not least to how the availability of medicines across the country can be ensured and how equal access to the pharmacy's services can be ensured not least for all the groups currently in a vulnerable position. It is about how pharmacies with a developed pharmacy market can contribute to a greater societal benefit. I would like to thank you very much for a very good debate. I look forward to continuing to discuss these issues with Karin Rågsjö.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-572	Mr President, I would like to Karin Rågsjö has asked me whether I and the government intend to act in order for us in Sweden to avoid the type of financing model that has been used for the construction of Nya Karolinska Solna and in which way. Furthermore, she has asked me if I see any risks of a university hospital being procured with a OPS solution and how I intend to act to avoid them. It is a matter for county councils to choose the financing solution and the design of agreements for health care investments. The Municipal Act requires good financial management. Municipalities and county councils shall manage their funds in such a way that requirements for good returns and adequate security can be met. Each municipality and county council are also responsible for auditing their own operations. The auditors examine whether the activities are effective and effective, whether the governance is adequate and whether the accounts are fair. The so-called OPS model, public – private collaboration, is subject to the procurement legislation and is to be procured as a starting point in accordance with current legislation. The county council and to some extent the municipalities are responsible for health care in Sweden, but the state has a responsibility to create conditions for equal care. A jointly funded high-quality healthcare system is a cornerstone of the Swedish model. Karin Rågsjö notes that Nya Karolinska Solna will be one of Sweden's university hospitals and that there is a state interest in the hospital and the care provided by it working in a patient-safe manner and in a way that makes employees happy and stay. I agree with that. Patient safety has a bearing on many parts of the healthcare system and is an important issue for the government. It is the care providers who have the basic responsibility to ensure that patient safety is high. Safe and safe care is a management issue and requires that there are competent employees and a well-functioning supply of skills. The government has, among other things, given the county councils increased opportunities and better tools to address these challenges through the investment in professional billions. In the budget proposal for 2017, the Government has proposed that SEK 10 billion be added to municipalities and county councils annually in general government grants to give the municipal sector long-term prospects to develop well-being based on local needs. The Government has also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare, in collaboration with several authorities and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, to develop a comprehensive support for healthcare in the area of patient safety. In order to further strengthen the Inspection for Health and Welfare (IVO's) opportunities to conduct effective supervision of healthcare and social services, the Government proposes in the budget proposal for 2017 that IVO's administrative grant should increase by SEK 70 million from 2017, compared with the previously calculated level of the grant for the same year. As regards the financing of Nya Karolinska Solna, the right to interest deduction is subject to judicial review. The assessment shall be made on the basis of the limitation rules for interest rebates tightened from 2013. These rules are intended to discourage tax planning with so-called interest rate spinners. Within the Government Office, work is under way to review the current rules. I would also like to mention that the government has set up a committee to investigate the conditions for involving private capital in the financing of state transport infrastructure ( Dir. 2016:59). In general, I would like to stress the importance of dealing with the tax resources that are managed by the elected representative, particularly in the case of long-term financing projects. It is important to act in a way that ensures the financing of good and equal care and well-being both today and in the future. I would like to round off by stating that Stockholm County Council has decided on an extensive external audit of the entire construction of New Karolinska Solna. I welcome that audit.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-581	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for answering some questions! The reason I raise a regional issue here is that it has bearings not only at Stockholm County Council but also on Sweden. As the Minister says, the New Karolinska Hospital is also a university hospital that also has links to Karolin Institutet. This is about many different parts. It is about the financing model OPS. It sounds poppy, but it's not. It means public and private in collaboration. It is also about what is happening in Stockholm County Council right now, where the money rolls to consultants. 500 care places have been shut down due to staff shortages. This has had enormous consequences, and one is somehow connected with the other. There is a state interest in the fact that a hospital that will operate this type of specialist care is functional for patient safety. The right parties have long remained silent about the cost development that will hit the entire county. It's great that you should do this investigation, but this is beating right now. NKS risks becoming one of the world's most expensive hospitals because of this economic solution. This applies not only to construction, but also to operation that is very expensive. We really needed this highly specialised hospital to the region, but not at this price. I think it'll be hard to swear free from the consequences. As I said, the issue of NKS concerns many. I think the focus has been shifted from patients to the model used, i.e. the market solutions, and the value-based care model used. It sounds great with value-based care, but it's about what individual patients cost. It's new public management all the way into the tile. Many in the medical profession feel that this is completely insane. The most amazing thing, and what has rightly attracted great interest at national level as well, is the funding that has been made possible with the OPS model, public – private collaboration. I am not an economist, but I understand that there is something going on in a business model that involves using an interest rate spin. It is therefore an aggressive form of tax planning where profits are shifted from a high tax country to a lower tax country. This is done by means of high-interest loans. An interest rate spin may mean that a Swedish company borrows money at high interest rates from a company in a low tax country and that this company in turn borrows money from the Swedish company or associated companies at low interest rates. That sounds unusual, you might say. So you move the profits. I think this is some kind of grey area, and I will get into it in my second speech. The problem is that the hospital will be 9 billion more expensive than expected. There was only one bidder, and it was Skanska. It's quite unusual, I must say. The Minister has raised this a little bit, and it would be interesting to hear what you think is needed to put a stop to the road and to avoid this type of financing model in more counties. At the end of the day, this is likely to affect the patients.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-588	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by answering Karin Rågsjö's last question. There is work going on within the Government Office, as I said in my interpellation response, to review the current regulatory framework. There is also a court case that looks at this particular case, and therefore I do not want to go in and comment on the so-called interest rate curves linked to Karolinska. I also do not believe that this is necessary in order to be able to hold a debate about the breakdown that New Karolinska has been for the bourgeois-led management of Stockholm County Council. We should remember that when bourgeois politicians at both county and national level try to make this sound like an accident at work, a number of representatives within Stockholm County Council, not least from my own party, the Social Democrats, have warned of the consequences for several years. It is about the consequences of not having a transparent process, not involving the elected representatives sufficiently and not listening to the warning signals that have been available from experts and others. I think this is serious, because, as I concluded by saying in my interpellation response, one of the most important tasks of elected representatives is to manage our common resources. One of my predecessors, the legendary Minister of Social Affairs Gustaf Möller, had an expression that I think deserves to be reminded of. He said: Every squandered crown of tax is a theft from the people. We can note that in the case of New Karolinska Solna there are many wasted tax crowns and thus a large theft from the residents of Stockholm County Council. I hope that the audit that has now been set up will provide answers to a wide range of questions and straighten out many of the questions surrounding the project. What is at stake is not only a number of billions that could have been used to improve healthcare for the Stockholms; what is at stake, of course, is also the good reputation and reputation that Karolinska has around the world. I do in my role as Minister many trips around the world. Health is today a global issue, and there is a strong interest in Swedish healthcare from other countries. We are keen to work with us on various issues. On all these trips and in almost all meetings with healthcare representatives in other countries Karolinska, both the Institute and the University Hospital, is praised. This is because excellent research is being carried out here, there is world-class care here and it has been possible for a long time to be at the forefront of health care development. That is what needs to be protected, and that is what needs to be developed. Then you cannot play an ideological experimental workshop as the leaders of the Stockholm County Council from the bourgeois side and be careless with our common resources. I fully share Karin Rågsjö's input into the debate and discussion.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-594	Mr President, and the Minister. As the Minister says, this also affects confidence in health care in this region, and not just here. This has become like a bad calendar. Every day you can open a new window in the New Karolinska Calendar, and it's not as fun pictures you get to see. Christmas is in no way coming. There's been a crisis of care in this county. I would like to use that word because it is an extremely bad plan. The thing is that right-wing politicians have used Stockholm County Council as a shop window: bourgeois politics is conducted here – look how good it is! Now there is not much talk about it anymore, and I can really understand that. Let me take a few examples. The new Karolinska Hospital will be able to receive 22,000 emergency visits. In the past, 88 000 could be accepted. There is no proper planning for this, and the other hospitals are on their knees. I may find it embarrassing that 500 hospital beds in the county are closed down due to a lack of staff. Perhaps the money could have gone to make sure that the staff had reasonable working conditions and decent wages instead of to consultants and other cheers. NKS would be a hospital for the future, and I hope it will be. But right now, the consequences for patients, doctors, nurses and nurses are something we need to take seriously. Of course, patients will have to pay for this. The entire OPS agreement that all politicians who have advised this in the bourgeoisie of the Stockholm County Council now swear to be free from is an agreement that suits the entrepreneurs perfectly. It's like taking a SMS loan. You never know what kind of bill you get in the end. Better than that, we can work in Swedish health care. I was in the United States with my committee. There they praised the Swedish health care system at all for being tax-financed and so on. Then you do not want to sunbathe that story, so to speak, with this kind of history from Sweden's largest region. When you see that New Karolinska makes 50 percent more expensive than comparable hospital constructions in Europe and the United States, something has gone very wrong. As we discussed earlier, the Swedish Tax Agency looked at this, because it is about a type of tax planning. The main contractor also says that Stockholm County Council was very familiar with that there would be some kind of tax planning. You're really out jumping or swimming in the gray area. In conclusion, I can think that the entire funding of NKS has been in some kind of grey area. It's some kind of experimental balloon. It is an experiment when it comes to the financing of this type of very expensive and large construction. It will cost the inhabitants of the county a great deal. I hope, Gabriel Wikström, that there are no more university hospitals now thinking: Now we are going to build, and it was a very nice model that Stockho lms County had. What do you think of that?
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-603	Mr President, I would like to I sincerely hope that it is not anyone who sees the model that has been used in the construction of New Karolinska Solna as something desirable when investing in other healthcare in the country. I basically believe that it is important to be able to have a collaboration between different actors – everything from public health care to research institutes, academia in general and the private sector. But it must always be transparent, and it must always be done on the basis of clear regulations. The politicians responsible for this kind of collaboration, whether it is about investments or other types of solutions, must be very open with the intentions. Not in any of the tours that we have been able to follow around Nya Karolinska Solna, I think the bourgeois leadership in Stockholm County Council has been open with some of the criteria that I line up. You've been stalled. Information has been withheld. It has been refused to listen to opposition and experts for many years. The renewed confidence of the electorate has been taken into account in order to push on. They have been tone deaf to the warnings that have come about running costs in this giant project. I think that's a shame. It is a pity for taxpayers in Stockholm County Council. That is a pity for democracy. But above all, it is a pity for all those who work daily in the care of Karolinska and other institutions within Stockholm County Council and for the patients, who are at risk of being squeezed. The responsibility for all this rests heavily on the bourgeois politicians who have been leading for a long time in the county council in Stockholm County. I hope that both the judicial review that is now taking place and the audit that has been initiated from Stockholm County Council will provide an answer and will sort out the responsibilities. But then, of course, it remains to demand political responsibility for the breakdown that has actually occurred to some extent in the construction of New Karolinska. For me, in my role as Minister of Health, and for all responsible health politicians, the focus should now, of course, be to find out what has actually happened. It is about monitoring developments and ensuring that, in the processes that are now under way, we get the answers that we deserve – the answers that citizens deserve. But our responsibility must also be for the future. How can we build an equal and efficient world-class healthcare system? How can we ensure that Karolinska becomes as good as possible? Here, as Karin Rågsjö points out, there is also a state interest and responsibility, both in the form of research money and in the form of other contributions that we make. I think that is important to protect. An initiative that we from the government have taken alongside the ongoing activities is to present a bill for university hospitals to continue to be publicly owned. In view of the ideological desert migration that the bourgeoisie of Stockholm County has been in for a lot of years, we cannot be sure that it will not soon be possible to cast greedy glances at all or parts of Karolinska Hospital and put this out for sale in the shop window that has been made Stockholm County Council.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-611	Mr President, I would like to We are in complete agreement on this. I am absolutely convinced that right-wing politicians and bourgeois politicians will trot on and try to sell more hospitals and once again put themselves on the knees of the market without directing themselves. That is what has been done in Stockholm. You've lost track of everything. For me it's like this: If you're a politician, you have to take responsibility for what's happening. Then you cannot renounce that responsibility and point to other politicians who were before. I think that's directly counterproductive. It also creates a political denunciation. As the Minister says, this has been the shop window of the right. I think we can talk about this in various debates. That window has now somehow got the big curtain in front of it, because it is no longer transparent. You don't want to show off what you have in the store, so to speak. And the model used is completely counterproductive in ensuring that the health care system retains the necessary resources. I, who live in this region, have to say that I am very concerned that 500 places of care cannot be used because of staff shortages and because the leading politicians have not tried to direct funds to improve the situation of staff in the various emergency hospitals, for example. I hope the New Karolinska Hospital will be a very good hospital. It will be thanks to the staff – nurses, nurses, doctors and everyone else. But it will not be because of the bourgeois politicians in Stockholm.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-615	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Karin Rågsjö that the hope for health care in Stockholm County Council can no longer be put to the ruling politicians. To an excessive extent, the bourgeoisie has been blinded by ideology and has played an experimental workshop with activities that have often worked well, but which may have been completely destroyed by privatisations and cuts. This is why the staff are essential for the continued development of health care. It is precisely their conditions, working conditions and organisation of work that policy should focus primarily on. In Stockholm County Council it is a matter of having adequate planning for the supply of skills in the future and of ensuring that there are necessary places for operational training, AT-places, ST-places and more. It is also, of course, a question of changing the focus. It is now a matter of focusing on building a strong and stable healthcare system and ensuring that tax money is spent precisely on health care and does not go into the pockets of venture capitalists. The money should not end up in tax havens or otherwise benefit other activities than health care. I hope that Karin Rågsjö continues to have a great deal of commitment to this issue, because it will be necessary if we are to create world-class care also in Stockholm County Council.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-618	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar has asked me whether I disagree with my predecessor on the issue of subletting. As Nooshi Dadgostar is well aware, we have an extensive housing shortage in most of Sweden's municipalities. In order to overcome this, the government is working to increase housing construction and improve the use of existing housing, among other things, by increasing the renting of a private dwelling or part of a dwelling. The addition of newly produced dwellings will not be enough to meet the housing shortage, but the focus must also be on making better use of existing stocks. Although we do not have public statistics on rental rates for private rentals, I, like Nooshi Dadgostar and my predecessor, are concerned about the data on increasing secondary rents, rental levels that make it difficult for many households to enter the secondary market and the rental market. It is also worrying about the precarious conditions that sometimes appear to exist, not least information on criminality in the secondary market. In 2013, a new law on the rental of own dwelling was introduced, which allows the landlord to charge a cost-based rent in contrast to the rental apartment. Boverket has carried out a follow-up of the law and analysed, among other things, second-hand rentals in advertising data from two major advertising services during the years 2009– 2014. The statistics show increasing secondary rents also for rental apartments not covered by the new Act. The fact that rents increased both before and after the law, regardless of the form of tenure, contributed to the difficulty of drawing conclusions about the cause. It is likely that rental levels will be affected by the increasing housing deficit. Boverket's follow-up report forms the basis for the ongoing investigation that we have established on strengthening the position of tenants and will present its report during the spring. Among other things, the report looks at how tenants' position can be strengthened and how security can increase regarding the letting of their own home. The Act on the Leasing of Own Homes aims to ensure that existing dwellings are used as much as possible. However, it is important that the balance between the interests of the landlord and the tenant is appropriate, as the investigator is now reviewing and where I await the investigator's proposal.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-624	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Before I came here, I read the latest issue of the newspaper Hem & Hyra, which has recently gone through secondary rents. The title is a record of renting a right-of-occupancy apartment, and the conclusion is in principle: Do not rent a right-of-occupancy apartment! Instead, apply to a rental apartment that has completely different rules for renting. In the preamble it is said that subletting a right-of-occupancy may be three times more expensive than having a first-hand contract, says our review. But no one complains to the rent board because it's useless. I have been involved in housing policy for a while now, and I am extremely surprised by the regulatory framework we have and which actually aims to prevent the individual from taking advantage of his or her rights. In other words, you cannot subsequently get back the over-rent you have been paid. You can get rid of your contract at short notice – probably when you go to the rental board, for example, even if something else has been agreed. Here, then, we have a regulatory framework in which a person is completely unjust. In reality, there is no ceiling for rents in the right-of-occupancy apartment, you might say, because in practice you can never take advantage of your right. The Minister means – quite nicely, I would say – that it is a cost-based rent. It is not; it is a market-based rent. For example, if you have received a residence permit from your parents that is cashed and ready and you therefore pay a cost of perhaps SEK 1 000 a month, you can still ask for SEK 12 000 in rent and live elsewhere yourself. The reason why I ask the question whether the government has changed its mind is that I see in the Minister's reply that there is still an emphasis on use from the government. It seems to be insecure, says the Minister. He's not sure about that. I would say that this is a grave understatement of what is happening in the secondary market today. I would also like to question the whole idea of increased use. It is not, of course, an increase in use when we see that people are buying up residences today and taking advantage of the fact that people are in great need of housing by taking out huge secondary rents, while they themselves live in another satellite home. This has not increased the use of the stock. There's something else. On the other hand, it has increased housing speculation. In Sweden, we have worked quite hard not to facilitate this type of speculation on our own housing. That's exactly what's very dangerous to the economy. We sometimes say this in Sweden: No, it will probably not be a housing bubble that is flawed, because we do not have the kind of speculation that you have in other countries. You can hear that sometimes. But the legislation makes this type of speculation easier. A lot of people have been in touch with me after I said I would put this interpellation to the minister. This is a problem that is only getting bigger and bigger. I last spoke yesterday to a person who said that now they have bought a home, but the person will of course not live in it himself, but the rooms in this giant dwelling will be rented out for 20 000 SEK each to different individuals. So it is only one way to buy homes and make money from them in a highly speculative way. I think the Minister would have to take this a little more seriously than I feel they are.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-635	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the housing shortage we have in Sweden creates a lot of problems of a different nature in a number of different areas. Different second-hand rentals are one of the problems that we see today, but also the sharply increased prices of villas and flats is a huge problem, as there are very many people who do not get into the housing market. It is a growing group that cannot afford to take up the housing market. This is perhaps basically the biggest problem in this area, but it is also, by extension, a problem that more and more people end up in a large debt that they are unsure whether they can cope with if we have a changed economic situation in the country. Households as a group are facing greatly increased problems if we have a changed situation in the form of a deterioration in the economic cycle or an increase in interest rates. People with less income have to be squeezed into an increasingly smaller part of the housing market, thus increasing the prices of, for example, secondary contracts. Criminal organizations also grow up as this problem grows in different parts of the country. I therefore very much agree that the huge lack of housing is a major problem that we must try to overcome, otherwise we are creating situations that are at risk of causing major problems for the whole country. We are also in danger of a growing crime at the other end. Part of what I understand Nooshi Dadgostar is referring to is actually a criminal activity that should be more clearly opposed. I think that is right: we need to act more clearly to counter the criminalisation of this sector and a growing overcrowding which also brings problems. On the other hand, I am not prepared to take significant measures to reduce the extent of the rental of a part of a dwelling. I think that is something we should do more than today: rent out some of our accommodation. Whether it is a villa, a right-of-occupancy or a right-of-occupancy apartment, I think that more people should do it, because even though there is crowded housing, especially around the big cities today, many also have plenty of space. We should be able to remedy some of the problems that many find it difficult to find a dwelling by renting out some of our accommodation. There is therefore a necessary part of the solution for everyone to have a roof over their heads. We must realise that, too.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-640	Mr President, I would like to What I'm describing is not criminal. That's the problem. That is why I appeal to the government to change the regulations introduced by the bourgeois government a few years ago, namely the rental of private housing. It has always been possible to have residents. That is not really the issue. You can also make money from that. The problem with the legislation is that you can never get the rent back afterwards, which means that in practice there is no ceiling on renting. This causes the housing shortage to pick up. Individual rich individuals buy up a large number of homes. They still have their home, even though it should actually be placed on the market. Instead, they move elsewhere and rent the dwelling for a huge rent. The report by the newspaper Hem & Hyra shows that the supply of second-hand apartments has increased by a small 4 percent. It's a little bit. On the other hand, rents for a two-bedroom apartment have increased by 35 per cent. You can pay three times the rent in Stockholm and twice as high in Gothenburg. Melissa Eriksson in the article lives not in a big city but in Strängnäs. She's paying today a priceless rent. She says, "They make several thousand dollars a month and yet you only get to rent in short hours and can be thrown out at any time. This is exactly what the regulatory framework means. "I think it's fucked up," says Melissa. This is widespread throughout Sweden. It is increasing what the Minister describes, namely the lack. It is not that there are empty apartments that are suddenly filled with people. On the contrary! A dangerous speculation about housing has now been created. This can mean that the housing bubble is bursting. This means that there will be huge gaps. People with a lot of money buy up residences and exploit, suck out, those who are far from the housing market with rents that are beyond the limits of reasonableness. It's a gulf growing and growing. Housing is a social right. It's written in the Constitution. Here it will be a kind of pyramid scheme where some earn an extreme amount of money by exploiting the housing shortage. Peter Eriksson himself describes what a huge problem the housing shortage is. I believe that legislation must protect the individual. There must be a high level of consumer protection at a time when the housing shortage is so great that the effects do not occur. There are no more people who have been given housing. However, they pay much higher rent. I want to pick up one last thing. There are those companies today that are good. They want to build housing at reasonable cost, such as residential apartments. There are such companies. It's great that the condos aren't too expensive. But today doesn't work. There will be speculators buying up the condos and renting them out to a high market rent. The good companies that want to build well do not act as price pressure on the market.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-647	Mr President, I would like to One of the problems in this area is that official statistics in this area are weak. The Boverket does, as I referred to, some studies in this area. Then there are other actors, some individual newspaper, who do small own surveys. I think that one should be a little careful to draw too big conclusions; that today it does not work because it is like this because one has heard that someone says it is so somewhere. It's one side of the whole thing. I agree that there is a problem, but one should not say that that is what it looks like today. It could be a side of the thing. Then it may also look like other ways. But we should not underestimate the problems. To try to remedy some of the problems, we are discussing what the government can do with the growing crime. I still think that crime is part of the problem the interpeller is raising. It is a question of criminality whether there is an organised leasing in the form of secondary contracts. It is possible to focus clearer measures in the future and see if there are shortcomings in the regulatory framework. There is also an ongoing investigation to be completed by spring. It should be about strengthening the position of tenants. Some of the questions will be raised there. It is about the rules on the influence of tenants and changes are to be made to the Act on the rental of own housing. The investigation will also look at problems with the use of rental apartments by criminal groupings. There are a number of things that can be important in the context where the investigation will present proposals for the spring.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-651	Mr President, I would like to It is telling that the Minister thinks this is a crime. That's exactly what it's not. That is why I am raising the issue. The legislation is wrong. This is basically a legal activity that we support – which is politics. You might think it's legalized mafia business. But the problem is that there is legislation that does not contain penalties. It's like we're saying we're banning murder in the country, but there's no sanctioning system. We just hope that it will be so. That is the rule of law today. The article shows that the Board of Rents in Stockholm has received a number of applications for reimbursement of second-hand rents. The rent council notes that almost everyone wins. Those who go to the rent board and demand back an overleaf win in almost all cases. However, the Board of Rents says that of people who have rented a private dwelling, a right-of-occupancy or a villa where market rents prevail, zero people have gone to the Board of Rents to get back an overrent. Does the Minister of Housing seriously believe that the problem does not exist for the right-of-occupancy apartment? It can't be like that. It is unreasonable that there are two different systems for renting out – a reasonable system on the rent side where there is a sanction and where crimes can be prosecuted, in case of over-rent, but a system on the private property side where it cannot be done. It has been legalised, as the Minister himself believes is mafia or criminal activity. I appeal to the government to look at the problem. It's big. It is a question of speculation. The good companies on the market today that want to build at reasonable prices cannot do so because speculation has taken over.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-656	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the reasons why the government appointed the investigation that Agneta Börjesson is working on. It will be presented in the spring. There are problems with subletting. It is also important that we do not react so that even more people become without accommodation. It is absolutely true, and it seems true, that second-hand rents are increasing sharply. But there is some evidence that says it depends on the new law. Rents increased sharply even before the new law came into force. This is probably mainly due to a severe housing shortage. How are we going to deal with this problem? That problem will be difficult to solve in the short term. But if we increase housing construction significantly, it will contribute to a change in the market. We need to find clearer better structures that strengthen and clarify the position of both tenants and property owners. This can help us in Sweden to a greater extent to rent out parts of the apartment on good and fair terms that are transparent to everyone, and it will be clear if the regulations are violated. There's work to be done. The regulatory framework needs to be improved. I can support the interpellier's view that there are shortcomings in the system that need to be addressed.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-661	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Yngwe has asked me what measures the government will take to clarify the regulatory framework so that voluntary collection can continue. I believe that there is great potential to improve the management of textile waste. Today, large amounts of textiles are thrown into the garbage and going to incineration. It is not an effective way to manage a valuable resource. The issue of the management of textiles is important, and there is a need to improve the collection of textiles. I welcome the commitment of companies to increasing reuse. It is important to make use of this commitment and the systems that have been built up on a voluntary basis. At the same time, it is important to clarify what the overall waste management system should look like in the future. There are many aspects to be taken into account in the collection, and it is important that we find a long-term sustainable solution. An analysis work is currently under way within the Government Office in preparation for a position on what the further process should look like. Kristina Yngwe has also asked me what measures I will take to improve the collection and recycling of textiles for less environmental impact, more companies and more jobs. There are several examples of initiatives at different levels. For example, the Government has appointed a special investigator to analyse and propose instruments to generally promote the reuse of products and thus prevent the generation of waste. The overall objective is to achieve a more resource efficient and circular economy. Policies should provide incentives to both producers and consumers in order to promote, for example, trade in second-hand products and repair and upgrading of products. This assignment will be presented in February 2017. There are also extensive research and innovation initiatives, for example through support from Vinnova.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-666	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. For those who are not fully aware of this problem, I would like to give a background to why we are here today. In the last 30 years, Swedish consumption has almost doubled. We consume far more clothes today than we used to. Most of the time, it takes a lot of resources – soil, water and chemicals. If this is not used properly, it is a huge waste of resources. In Sweden we buy about 13 kilos of textiles per person per year, and 8 kilos of them we throw straight into the garbage can. Of these 8 kilos, 60 percent are whole and clean and could be reused as good clothes. Within the waste hierarchy, there are a number of steps that clothing should go through, or that should be taken into account in the case of clothing. Step one is prevention. This means borrowing or renting clothes instead of buying new ones. The second step is to reuse, which means that we go to a second-hand store and buy a garment that is new to us but not newly produced. The third step is recycling. This means that you can reuse textiles that cannot be used as garments. They may be dirty or divisive, but they can be used for insulation or upholstery in furniture. You can also tear the fibers and reuse them in new clothes. This is where we have a problem today. We do not have a working system to recycle collected textiles. Therefore, it is a very small part of the textile used in Sweden that is actually reused and enters the system again. The fourth step is to recover energy, that is to say, to burn. This is where most of the textiles end up today. The final step is to deposit. As I said, there is currently no working system for stage three, for recycling. This means that 8 kilos of textiles per person per year just disappears, is burned up and is a total lost resource. Given that we have to change our society from a linear society where we consume and then throw into a circular society where we circulate materials, this is of course a huge problem. This has also attracted the attention of many companies, and to take responsibility in a circular economy, many companies have started their own fundraising. The customer can bring a bag of textiles to Lindex, H&M or any other company when you are in town and hand in old clothes, curtains, tablecloths etc. Some clothes are whole and clean and can be left to a secondhand shop to be reused. Other textiles are dirty or divisive, and that is where the problem arises. It has thus been shown that the collection by these companies of textiles suitable for recycling or energy recovery is, in practice, illegal. Since this waste belongs to the municipality, the voluntary producer responsibility of the companies is in breach of the current regulations. It's basically illegal. It is, of course, absurd that there is a regulatory framework that stops companies that really want to do something good for the environment and take responsibility for what they put on the market and that stops the development of a functioning textile cycle. The Minister says in his answer: In fact, I don't think you can get much fuzzyer than that in an answer. There is thus a process going on to consider what a further process should look like.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-681	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I'll be clearer. No, I don't think it makes sense as it is today. When you look at how environmental work and work for a more resource-efficient society is going on and drawn forward, you see an exciting dynamic. Sometimes it is we legislators who put their foot down and drive innovation and news into a job. Sometimes it is the business community and consumers in collaboration that take precedence. Then we'll have to find a way to correct the rules. This is a case of the latter. We need to correct the regulatory framework here, or create a regulatory framework for what is now happening. The problem is that it is currently not regulated. You've only started to do what the business community does when you're good at your innovation work. We need to create a regulatory framework that enables this, steers it up and puts it in a relevant context – including the possible risks that exist – so that it becomes orderly. This work takes place on several levels. That's where it's getting a little vague. There is work at European level that is important and in which we in the government are very active. There are ongoing EU negotiations on waste legislation. There we are working to agree at EU level on increased recycling and recycling of textiles, for example through requirements for sorting out. We also have cooperation at Nordic level for more sustainable management of textiles. At the Nordic ministerial meeting on 2 November, we agreed to move forward with a joint input to the European Commission on the 7th Environmental Action Programme. Today, we sent a letter on this, in which, with the support of my Nordic colleagues, I call on the European Commission to include textiles in the work on the Environment Action Programme at European level. There is also an analysis work at the Swedish level based on the assignment we have given to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is there that we have been given the task that what is now happening to textiles is unregulated. It has recently been received by the Government Office. The starting point is to ensure possible environmental and health benefits for society at large in the most resource-efficient way possible. This needs to be put in a really big context: the question of how we handle waste and increase recycling in Sweden as a whole. I have previously promised in this House to promote a broad political agreement, and I intend to keep that promise. I believe and hope that the honourable Member can agree with me that we should be in good order, that I will not do so via an interpellation debate. I hope that we can hold talks with the industry but also across block borders in order to find a broad and common solution involving textiles.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-690	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister. It is of course welcome that initiatives are being taken to ensure that we have broad discussions; this is not a new issue. From the Center Party we have seen that producer responsibility is a solution in order to actually be able to move forward. It is actually a form of voluntary producer responsibility that companies are currently engaged in: they take responsibility for placing products on the market and collecting them. In the long run, innovative recycling systems can be found. When we sat in the alliance government, we appointed this investigation and tasked the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency with investigating the conditions for increased collection and looking specifically at what a producer responsibility for textiles could look like. This has now been reported; unfortunately it was delayed, but better late than never! However, many feel that it stands and stomps. The fact that the collection that is currently ongoing is illegal was known even before the report was written, so there has been a need to do something for quite a long time. That's also why we set up the investigation. We believe that there is great potential to improve the management of textiles by introducing producer responsibility in this area too. This would improve collection and recycling and thus reduce the environmental impact. If you get full responsibility for the collection and recycling, I believe that there will be incentives and conditions for new services and solutions for better service, technology development and innovation. It is also something that can create jobs. We also see that at the moment in Modes verige there are many interesting solutions. When I have been out to meet textile companies, I understand that this is really perceived as an obstacle: that you must not be responsible for the products you release. That is why it is really important to find a solution. I am very pleased that the Minister gave a somewhat more comprehensive answer on what to do in addition to the regulatory framework. In the Minister's original reply, she refers to the study on the circular economy that is currently under way and that will be very exciting to read when it is presented in February. There is nothing specifically about textiles, so we may not be allowed to read much about it. But it was good to hear that there are other things going on, and it would be desirable then in the next step to look more specifically at the circular economy for textiles. The study will, among other things, identify the obstacles that exist in legislation and other regulations, but in the case of textiles, it is quite clear what the obstacles are. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report has identified one, namely that we do not have a working system for collecting textiles. For the Center Party it is therefore very clear that producer responsibility as a basis, which is then built on, would be a solution. We also see that the government has not sent out the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report for a referral. I would like to ask whether there is a plan for it to be sent out or any reason why this has not happened.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-699	Mr President, I would like to As the member describes, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was commissioned in August 2014 to develop proposals on the handling of textiles. I hope the honourable Member will agree with me that it was natural for us, from the government, to wait for a response from the Environmental Protection Agency. We have now, and we are analysing it. It identifies an obstacle but also a number of measures that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can and will take for itself, without waiting for answers from us. Among other things, it intends to hold industry dialogues with the textile industry together with the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. They are planned to start in the next year and last for three years. Other missions are also being proposed to other authorities, and we are also looking at this. One such proposal is to give both the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Growth Agency specific tasks in order to promote sustainability work in the textile field and for increased reuse and recycling. This shows the broad hold we need to take from the government and various authorities to work for what we agree on: that the value of the textiles we have can be used in a much better way – through reuse and upgrading in design but also through recycling of fibres. We need to deal with this with a broad approach but also follow, encourage and harness the power and initiative of the private sides. We sometimes find that they are ahead of us. There is also a lot of activity on the municipal side. Several municipalities have taken the initiative to collect textiles – in the cases that I know of in collaboration with different types of private actors, both those who collect and sell real clothes and other actors in the industry. It's a broad industry. We fully agree that there is potential here and that we need to steer the regulatory framework. But it is not a measure that is needed, but we need to work quite broadly. We will put it in a context of improved collection and reuse in general. For this I am absolutely convinced that we need a broad agreement. I will take such an initiative, and I hope that we will be able to sit down in such talks in an orderly manner.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-705	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is good to hear that the government is also committed to this issue. During the Marrakesh climate summit, where we were both, I attended a seminar on textiles and the potential for Sweden on this issue. We could take an extremely strong global leadership role in the sustainable consumption of textiles. We have world-leading companies such as IKEA and H & M, which exist globally and are very large players. We have designers with very high reputation, such as Filippa K, who are already working with sustainable textiles. We already have a prominent position in global environmental and climate work. We have good access to the raw materials that could be used to replace fabrics such as polyester, based on oil, with lyocell, which I wear, which is based on wood raw materials. So there is an incredible potential for Sweden, but at the same time I feel that a lot is on hold now because this issue is not really solved. That is why it is positive if initiatives are taken, and, of course, we are willing by the Center Party and the Alliance to discuss the issue. We have worked with it during the time of the Alliance Government and see that it must be resolved in order for Sweden to take a leading role in a global market for sustainable textiles. I thank the Minister for his reply and look forward to further discussions!
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-710	Mr President, I would like to It is fantastic fun, but a little stressful, to work with this kind of questions. We have, as the honourable Member repeats, industries that are really working at a rapid pace in the design and production stages and in the textile industry, but also in the sales and re-use stages. So it is a matter of keeping up, but at the same time, of course, it is a matter of doing the right thing and looking at this as a whole. In addition to what I have mentioned here, we are also working within the new industrialisation strategy and looking at what business models are becoming relevant for the new circular economy. There, Vinnova is active in a project called Smart Textiles. So there is a big movement going on, and we are likely to see technological leaps in it. It is not entirely self-evident which policy and regulatory framework should be in place to encourage this and to land it properly so that it becomes sustainable, resource efficient and safe in all parts. But we'll be able to find our way. The basis is, of course, that we have committed politicians, who are prepared to support and take care of the commitment that exists on the private side. I am very optimistic that we will be able to find a broad-based solution here in Parliament.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-714	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me if I am prepared to take any initiative in relation to what she says in the interpellation on the implementation of the review of sites of national interest for outdoor life. In the interpellation, Gunilla Nordgren argues, among other things, that the review is carried out in a way that restricts individual ownership. This is because, according to her, the responsible authorities have ignored private landowners and their interests, including when they have consulted. Gunilla Nordgren also points out that it is problematic for the state to identify areas of national interest that affect already ongoing work with detailed plans in the municipalities. I note at the outset that ownership is constitutionally protected and certainly not contested by the government. As I understand Gunilla Nordgren, her question relates, among other things, to the consultation that is to be held under the Environmental Code on environmental assessments. According to Gunilla Nordgren, the present provision of the environmental code states that the public should also be given the opportunity to submit comments during such consultation. I cannot comment on the actions of the authorities in these areas, but I can at least note that the interpellation states that the public, including private landowners, has been given the opportunity to comment on the case in question. This is also shown in information on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website. I also understand that Gunilla Nordgrens's question concerns the consultation of the so-called sectoral authorities with Boverket and other authorities under Section 2 of the Regulation on housekeeping. This consultation is part of the process of identifying areas of national interest. The responsibility for assessing which areas may be of national interest, i.e. what is usually called identifying areas of national interest, and reporting these to the county administrative boards lies with the respective sector authority. When it comes to areas of national interest for outdoor life, this responsibility lies with the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The county administrative boards will then provide the municipalities with a basis for municipal planning. This flow is laid down in law and regulation, and I cannot comment on the actions of the authorities in individual cases on the matter or influence the individual processes. Finally, I would like to make it clear that when an authority identifies a matter of national interest, it does not affect current land use.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-722	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As the Minister writes in his reply, there is a review of national interests in the field of outdoor life. The background is an assignment that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority received in their regulatory letters for 2012 and 2013. The starting point is that the areas have such high values of natural or cultural quality and accessibility to the public that they can become attractive to many visitors from large parts of the country. In 2014, the County Administrative Boards submitted proposals to the Government in which areas they considered to be of national interest. Particular focus has been placed on metropolitan areas. Consultations have now been carried out and turned to authorities, county boards, affected municipalities, nature and outdoor organisations and others. However, the period of referral was rather short. The consultation was sent out on 2 September and would have replies from the municipalities on 30 September. Then there is little respect for the democratic process in the municipalities. I asked the Minister two questions. The first was whether the Minister considers that it complies with the proportionality principle of the Environmental Code and the 2nd Chapter of the Government Form. Section 15 that the state, through authorities, identifies areas of national interest for outdoor life so that the individual ownership of individual landowners is restricted. The second question was whether the Minister considers that it is in accordance with those laws that the State identifies areas that affect already ongoing work with detailed plans in the municipalities. To the first question, the Minister answers that ownership is constitutionally protected and not contested by the government. We thank you for that. But I think that too often people are close to not respecting it. In some of the areas identified, the proposal from the county administrative boards means that individual landowners are affected and, in my opinion, their property rights are restricted. They say that areas should be within 30 kilometres of a big city, and then we talk about Stockholm, Gothenburg or Malmö. However, several of the designated areas are further than 30 kilometres away, and there are no public roads there and so on. The proposals also identify non-legal land, such as agricultural land. Here the Minister gives the answer that it does not affect current use, but that is not really true. For example, if the farmer wants to merge two fields in order to make the operation more rational, national interest may be an obstacle. There are examples, not from Skåneland but from another part of the country, where the landowner free of charge let the land for a ski track to a ski association. After a couple of years the owner wanted to harvest forest in the area. The ski association had nothing against it, but he was grounded because there was a ski track. The Minister and I have debated property rights before. At that time it was a matter of beach protection, which can also often be a restriction. In the form of government, it says that individual property rights should be protected, and if you get your property rights restricted, you should be replaced. There are examples of including land included in adopted planning plans and where detailed planning for settlements is ongoing. This will be an intervention in the municipal plan monopoly. That was my second question, and I did not get an answer to it, but perhaps I can get it today. We all want to protect our nature, but we also want to protect individual property rights. In many cases the brush has become too wide. I have one more question. I am a little surprised when the Minister sometimes puts it as if individual landowners are also the general public. So does the Minister equate individual landowners with the public? The public is given greater opportunities, while the individual landowner can have his or her opportunities limited.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-733	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say a few words about national interests. It is a planning tool aimed at improving the management of land and water areas. An area of national interest identified by an authority, i.e. a national interest claim, does not in itself affect land use or property ownership. It is only when land use changes in a way that requires a judicial decision that a national interest takes concrete importance. This can happen, for example, when someone is applying for a permit to carry out an activity that significantly harms national interests. As I explained, the mission is based on the objective of open-air policy, which was adopted by Parliament in 2010. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was then commissioned to review the areas that are deemed to be national interests in 2012 in its regulatory letter. The background to this was that most of these areas were already identified in the 1970s and 1980s and that the planning documents of the county boards and municipalities were therefore out of date. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency conducts the review in collaboration with the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority and the County Administrative Boards. The information about the dialogue that we in the government have received says that in 2013 and 2014 the county boards collaborated in close dialogue with both the municipalities and other actors when the proposals were made. That is the information we have received. I cannot comment in more detail on the work of the authorities. As far as the specific question of interests is concerned, the statement I gave was not a personal assessment, but I simply quoted the text of the law. Here we have both individual and general interests, and both should be taken advantage of in the processes. How this is done is carefully regulated by law and regulation. As I said, I cannot comment on individual cases or the work of the authorities in these parts. One of the county boards' main tasks is to be a part of the balance between general and individual interests in order to create good planning conditions for municipalities.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-737	Mr President, I would like to I did not really get the answer to my question if the public is to equate with individual owners. I also did not get an answer to whether the Minister thinks it is okay to identify areas where there are already adopted outline plans and there has been detailed planning for several years, which can certainly be affected by this. I hope to get answers there. I have looked at Västra Götaland and a little at home. It's wide brush strokes. You expand areas and include golf courses and everything. There is an ongoing land use. It's not public law today. In the letter from the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland County, it says that it does not only apply to areas today but that you look ahead. So there are areas that are 40 miles from Gothenburg in this case and where there are no public transport or even public roads. There are no hiking trails. Yet they have been pointed out. It is usually said that in the case of a difference between reality and map, reality applies, but sometimes I can actually wonder if it has been the other way around here– if a difference between reality and map apparently applies to the map. The areas identified are not always correct, and many testify to the lack of dialogue with affected landowners. That's not very good. In addition, when municipalities receive the proposal from the county administrative board, they are given only three and a half weeks to go through an extensive material and talk to the affected landowners in their municipality. Then it will be up in the Construction and Environmental Board, and then it will be up in the municipal board. This is not having respect. It has been going on for several years itself, and then you give the municipalities three and a half weeks or what it might be. I think it's a little upsetting. I would like answers to the question whether the public is the same as individual landowners concerned. That's almost what the answer says. I'll be a little worried, because I may not have understood the minister that way. In the example of the ski track, the landowner suddenly must not harvest his forest because there is a ski track there. The ski association had nothing against it, but still he is grounded because the ski trail is nearby. Of course, I am not looking for comments on individual dossiers. I've only picked real examples from different parts of the country – examples where you obviously don't follow the law. Then I guess the government will have to look at it. I understand absolutely that you cannot go into individual cases, but when I hear these things, I cannot help but wonder. I would therefore like answers to the question of the public and individual ownership. I also want answers about this with municipalities that have adopted outline plans and have spent a lot of money on ongoing detailed plans. Suddenly, the large, wide brush is being taken – I imagine the Minister understands which area I am thinking of – and expands the area to include much more. This therefore affects building permits and detailed planning that have been going on for several years. That can't be right, can it? That's going into the municipal planning monopoly.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-744	Mr President, I would like to I would appeal to the honourable Member not to misinterpret what I am saying. In the sense of the law, the owner is defined as an individual interest and the public as a public interest. It is regulated by law how they relate to each other. I do not like it, but I observe how the law works. I have a role to play in ensuring that this is the case. This is not about any valuation work. As regards the relationship between individual and general interest, including the identification of national interests, there is a process of consultation to be followed. All parts are regulated by law and regulation. Of course, it is important that all parts of the state system follow this, and I assume that is the case. The information received by the Government is that most of the identified consultation took place in the process in 2013 and 2014. It is not in the consultation process that the consultation takes place, but it was part of the work of the sectoral authorities to consult interested parties in the order in which it is regulated. Account must therefore be taken of both the individual and the general interests, and they must be weighed in the manner in which the Riksdag through the Government has instructed the authorities to weigh them. In all government processes, the flow can become untimely, as described by Gunilla Nordgren, i.e. that there is also detailed planning work going on. Then it is probably the case that the master plan applies and regulates the balance between interests; that is the function of the master plan. Since master plans often work for a long time, everyone who works with detailed planning knows that things are happening both on the map and in reality between the master plan's adoption and the detailed plan, and that is what the process is about. It is nothing unique to these very provisions.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-748	Mr President, I would like to Then I take it that individual property rights should be respected. It is not always the experience of the individual landowners, but they feel a little pointed out. When it comes to consultation, municipalities sometimes try to make contact when they see that the areas affect individual landowners, but once they received this proposal, they received three and a half weeks. There's no time. There are answers from the municipalities where they say: This means that we do not have time to have a dialogue with the individual landowners. I think that's a run-over. The municipal side has a detailed plan that is several years old. It is also older than 2012; it already existed when this began. There is a lot of money invested in ongoing planning, and officials themselves say that it affects. Then there are national interests already today – it is striped as well as checkered and dotted in those maps, as is so often the case. But if you do not have consultation and, as the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland County, says that you do not distinguish between government, municipal and private property, I am a bit afraid of the dark. In fact, it is in the form of government that property rights should be respected. You can have a dialogue, but here– you can apply in Västra Götaland, not at our home– the answer has sometimes been: Then you must appeal then. An appeal actually costs a terrible amount of money. What I am looking for and have been looking for also in other debates we have had is mutual respect and a better process. It is only to be noted that this process has been similar to the one with the extended beach protection, that is to say, under all criticism. I hope that individual property rights will be better respected.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-753	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps respect for property rights is so obvious that we forget to pronounce it. I would like to state once again that ownership is, of course, an integral part of our legal system and, not least, of our society. Then, throughout the planning apparatus, we have different balances between what is defined in the law as an individual interest on the one hand and the general interest on the other. We must be able to strike that balance in order to develop society and get something built at all, otherwise we will get stuck. The national interests are a method for this, and the balance is made by a number of designated authorities that make a so-called national interest claim. In the process of developing this, there is a specified way of consulting, among other things, the landowners and also the wider public. Because outdoor life is a public interest, and all sectors using land and water must take into account the values of outdoor life as part of sustainable use. This is stipulated by Parliament, and I see that there is broad support for this approach. As I have said several times, I cannot go in and review the work of the authorities or comment on individual matters, but of course we are following the process. If there is criticism of the authorities, I obviously have reason to follow it up in the order in which it exists.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-757	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked Energy Minister Ibrahim Baylan whether he believes there is a safety risk as an effect of qualified employees moving from the nuclear industry and whether the Government intends to take any steps to meet the challenge for the industry. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Access to skills is a prerequisite for maintaining the safety of nuclear power plants. Since the building, maintenance and development of skills are long-term issues, a long-term perspective and continuity of work with them is required. Changes that may affect access to the necessary skills need to be identified in good time in order to prevent and manage any negative consequences. I would like to point out that it is the licence holders, that is, the power companies operating the nuclear power plants, who are responsible for ensuring that the plants can be operated safely. It is therefore crucial for them to be able to attract and retain the skills needed for the operation and maintenance of nuclear power plants. The Radiation Safety Authority, SSM, supervises nuclear safety. This includes checking that licence holders also assume their responsibilities with regard to skills issues. SSM has requirements in its regulations regarding competence and human resources to which licence holders must comply. Jörgen Warborn has asked me whether I see any safety risk in the light of the issues he raises. Safety is always a top priority and therefore takes precedence over the operation of the nuclear power plant. This means that licence holders cannot operate the facilities unless they are able to meet the skills requirements. If the licence holders still operate the facilities, it is SSM's task to stop the operation, which is also a mandate to do. The Radiation Safety Authority shall, according to its instructions, also contribute to the development of national competence for current and future needs in the Agency's area of activity. The Authority shall therefore initiate research, education and studies and conduct external analysis and development activities. The agency contributes, for example, through its research funding to professorships and doctoral students in important areas. In 2012, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) conducted a review of Sweden's compliance with their nuclear safety standards. A follow-up took place last spring. The review resulted in a recommendation to Sweden to take measures to maintain long-term competence for nuclear safety and radiation protection at national level. Overall, I note that the conditions for maintaining and developing national competences in this area should be reviewed and, if necessary, strengthened. The Government Office therefore conducts a dialogue with the Radiation Safety Authority on how the Authority and other actors in the field can best contribute to the Government's in-depth presentation of the situation and the measures that need to be taken.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-766	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. I think that was basically a very good answer. The reason I put this interpellation is the background that I see, above all, from my own constituency, Halland. There's the Ringhals nuclear power plant. In my circle of friends, acquaintances and acquaintances, I have experienced that quite a few people have recently chosen to leave Ringhals for the benefit of other employers. This applies not only to those who work at Ringhals, but also to those who operate in the nuclear power plant. We have seen the closure of certain projects, for natural reasons, which has affected local businesses. You have to say that Ringhals is a good and popular employer in the region. Apart from the fact that it is a large employer, it has been shown that the turnover rate of the staff is very low. People choose to work for a very long time at Ringhals and are happy with it. What we have seen recently should be an expression of the policy of the government, which has been quite clear about what it wants to do with nuclear power. From the beginning it was not at all clear, but then it became a little clearer. This combined with low energy prices has meant that the decision to close two reactors at Ringhals has come true, and that is why people are looking away from Ringhals. The energy agreement has come, which has slowed down this development somewhat. Lucky for me, I guess. I was informed that there were as many who left Ringhals during the first quarter of 2016 as during the whole of 2015. Then came the energy agreement this spring, or this summer, and then it has become a little better. In view of the answer – which I thought was a good answer overall – I have some thoughts, a little more from a knowledge perspective. What is meant by national competence? The Minister writes that it needs to be strengthened. I think that sounds good, but I would like to ask the Minister: what does national competence mean? Is it competence in a broader perspective, enabling nuclear power plants to recruit from this national competence in the future? Or do you mean something narrower, just for SSM or the like? The answer rightly points out that dialogue will continue, and we will see if this will eventually lead to any action or not. I am interested in when this dialogue will take off and whether the Minister could develop and comment a little on what the immediate future looks like on this issue.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-774	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the good questions, which allow us to further develop exactly what is being done in this area. The mission to SSM is thus to develop national competence within the agency's area of activity. It is not just a question of providing the authority itself with competence, but it is a matter for the whole area of activity. Most of this work is about research. A fundamental purpose of the research that the agency finances and conducts through funding is to develop new knowledge, which can form the basis for decisions to be taken in the field and contribute to the Authority's own ability to carry out effective activities. An equally important aim is to develop and maintain the competence to develop new and accessible knowledge, both within the agency and throughout the country. One can note that there are a number of subject areas that are needed for us to have safe nuclear power in Sweden. Examples of this are severe breakdowns, reactor physics, safeguards and radio ecology. In these cases, the authorities have a special responsibility to ensure the development of skills. This is done, among other things, by financing professorships, doctoral services and postdoc services. The people on these services also act as teachers for students in their activities. This research is funded by contributions from the nuclear industry. We are now moving towards a system of renewable energy, as we have decided and agreed in the Energy Agreement, and we are seeing the closure of reactors. This clearly affects the amount of the fee and the resources available for this research. It is important that we follow this so that we can ensure a continued high level of this research, which is also – directly or indirectly – part of the education needed. The Government has commissioned SSM to report the national competence in the field of radiation protection. SSM points out that radiation protection research is fragmented and is often carried out in small groups with limited funding. There is a challenge in creating research groups with a critical mass, so that the research can be conducted with high quality. According to SSM, efforts are also needed to establish research networks, including in radiation biology and radioecology. The things I have now talked about are the basis for the dialogue that you mention. On the one hand, there is a dialogue between the government and the authority, and on the other hand there is a dialogue between the authority and the industry. As far as the dialogue between the government and the authority is concerned, I can tell you that it is ongoing and that it is intense. I shall not stand here and give detailed information on the part that the authority manages, because it is not within my remit.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-783	Mr President, I would like to The Energy Agreement means that, if nuclear power owners want to, we will have reactors running until 2040 – 2045. It also opens the door to building a new one, should there be opportunities for this. This is an industry that has the opportunity to continue for a very long time to come. I think what the Minister for the Environment mentions about research is good in substance. However, I see it a little more concretely, from the nuclear power plants. Let me take an example from Mr Varberg. There we have a university of applied sciences that cooperates well with the business community widely in the municipality. The University of Applied Sciences Campus Varberg simply has a dialogue with the business community and asks: What is the need for competence in the future? It seeks to create more or less tailor-made training courses for the local business community. Then of course Ringhals is an important party there. There have been two courses that have more or less focused on the energy sector, and several of the students who have attended there have later applied for work at Ringhals. Given the recent developments, if I am properly informed, an education has been discontinued, and the search for the other is extremely small. It is rather from this point of view that I ask the question, not at research level, but in concrete terms, how we can ensure that there is the possibility of recruiting competent employees for nuclear power plants in the near future and also in the slightly longer term. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment – I took an example around Campus Varberg – if the Minister and the Government have a slightly broader perspective on how these reasonably specific programmes look. I know that Chalmers has similar programs, and it may also be in other locations. Does the government have any grasp of this and do you see any concern that the supply of skills will be more difficult in the future when it comes to recruitment? It is a generational shift in nuclear power plants that needs to take place during this period. Like I said, there's low staff turnover. This means that a great deal is approaching retirement age, and this means that there is a need to get new, young colleagues into the industry. It is good that the Minister and the Government state that there is no safety risk today because of this. After all, I asked this interpellation to ensure that we do not end up in such a situation in the future and just wanted to make sure that the Minister shares that view.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-789	Mr President, I would like to Then I can begin by telling the honourable Member that there are no safety risks today. Now we have received notifications, both internationally and from the agency, that in the future the issue of competence is something we need to look at. In view of this, we have asked for more information, so that we get a detailed picture of the situation, but also entered into a close dialogue with the Authority to identify the need for possible action in the future. For a long time, therefore, the agency has been tasked with maintaining competence in this area. It then focuses on research efforts and what is called the higher part of the required advanced skills, such as professors, teachers and doctoral students. Some of them we'll have to count on will go out into the industry with their doctorate and that competence even. Then the bulk of the safety issue is important to bear in mind, namely the licence holders, that is, the power companies which operate the nuclear power plants and which are responsible for the safe operation of the plants. The permit also includes questions about competence in a broader sense. The security issue should be dealt with in exactly the way that the honourable Member describes, i.e. on the ground in the region together with the educational institutions, the employment services and those working with the wider supply of skills in each region. This lies in the mandates of licence holders and the operational oversight requirements. It is a work in several parts. It has been flagged from the IAEA that this is an area on which we need to focus, and so do we. We are following developments very closely, together with the responsible authority. This applies both to the issues of competence, which the authority itself is working on, but also to analyses of the broader issue, so that we will certainly not, as the honourable Member says, at any point in time, find ourselves in the situation of security risks due to skills shortages. We will catch up on this early, and we will do so as soon as we see signs of such a development.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-796	Mr President, I would like to It has been a good and clarifying debate. We have established that there is no safety risk today. We have established that the government is working together with the agency to ensure that this will not be the case in the future and that the government is working to get a detailed picture of what measures you need to put in place. What I am not quite clear about is when we can expect the government to have this detailed picture, so that I could follow up this debate with a written question or another interpellation. If you are getting a detailed picture, the Minister should have some sort of timetable for when this might be relevant. I think I shall stay here, Mr President. Since this is my closing speech, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-7aabe42a4130a19c-799	Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by thanking the honourable Member for announcing an important issue on which I think it is good that we have a somewhat more general debate. It has been conducted for a while now within the Radiation Safety Authority, between the Radiation Safety Authority and the Government and within the industry. But it is good if it also comes to the wider public, so that we can see that the nuclear industry is an industry that needs sharp expertise today and for a while to come. It is important for the industry to function safely and for us not to mess up any part of the safety requirements that are being set. There is an active dialogue with the Authority. It is an ongoing work, and we will present various types of action. The level of research is the same, and this government makes the same assessment of research needs as previous governments have done. It has now been announced that the structure may need to be adjusted in order for it to work even better and the quality of research is maintained. I think we have reason to come back to the issue when we have a more detailed picture. It is possible that further closures of reactors will be announced. I think we can expect that in the near future.
