i-1bd54786eaa47722-6	Mr President, I would like to We will now debate the Government proposal New definition of the concept of real estate in the VAT Act. It may not be the hottest question in the public sphere, but it is probably so important. What does this mean? I'll start by telling you a little bit about the background and some other little and plenty about this hot issue. The committee supports the Government's proposal to introduce a new definition of the concept of real estate in the VAT Act. The proposal also abolishes the concept of operating accessories in the law. As a consequence, changes are also introduced to the rules on exemption and taxation in the real estate sector and on reverse taxation in the construction sector. Finally, an adjustment is introduced to the rules on supplies included in the lease of rights to use real estate. The amendments are made following the entry into force of a Union legal definition of immovable property on 1 January 2017. The aim is to achieve a more uniform application of VAT in the area of real estate and thus to simplify VAT management.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-8	Every particular part of the earth, on or below its surface, which it is possible to own or possess Any building or structure attached to or to the ground, above or below sea level, which cannot be dismantled or moved easily Every object installed and included as an integral part of a building or construction and without which the building or structure is incomplete, such as doors, windows, roofs, stairs and so on any object, equipment or machine permanently installed in a building or construction that cannot be moved without destroying or changing the building or structure. The VAT Act's definition of real estate is based on, and is partly linked to, the civil property concept according to the Land Code. However, in relation to the property concept of the Land Code, the concept of VAT-law property means both extensions and restrictions. For example, building accessories are always considered property for value added tax purposes, even if they are owned by someone other than the owner of the building or the land. This is a harmonisation of existing EU rules. The VAT rules are, to a large extent, already harmonised within the EU. The main basis for this is the European Union Council Directive of 2006 on the common system of value added tax, the so-called VAT Directive. Member States are obliged to implement the rules of the VAT Directive in national law. In Sweden, this has been done mainly through the VAT Act. In order to ensure uniform application of the rules of the VAT Directive, the Council has adopted implementing rules for the Directive in the so-called implementing regulation. The Regulation is binding and directly applicable in all Member States. Furthermore, on the occasion of a motion, the committee proposes an announcement to the government. According to the committee, shortly after the end of 2017, the government should follow up on the impact of the new and amended regulations on the administrative burden on companies in relation to those in force in the past. Mr President, I would like to It is good that we agree in committee. As usual, we will follow up on whether the government is doing what we have said. The Government's goal is to always evaluate all new laws and return to the Swedish Parliament if any change needs to be made.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-14	Mr President, I would like to This debate is really about the Swedish business environment, because the committee has a different opinion from the government on the administrative burden on companies as a result of the bill. During the time of the alliance government, administrative costs for companies were reduced by SEK 7 billion, and nearly 600 simplification proposals were made during this time, all to make everyday life easier for businesses and entrepreneurs. During this period, corporate tax and social security contributions were also reduced and the economic drivers for running businesses improved. The government's entrepreneurial policy, on the other hand, discourages entrepreneurship and jobs. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has been investigating the business environment for several years. According to their latest report, the Swedish business environment has deteriorated significantly. The present government bears a great responsibility for this. Part of a good business environment is that bureaucracy and the regulatory burden are kept to a minimum. It is also one of the issues that entrepreneurs raise when I meet them; they think the most important thing is that they can focus on their core business. Let me say a few words about impact assessments and the Rule Council. It is the Swedish system's watchdog to ensure that the administrative burden is not too burdensome for companies. The Regulatory Council was established in 2008 under the previous government and was part of the government's efforts to simplify the business environment. Experience from other countries shows that an independent review of additional rules reduces unnecessary regulatory problems. The Regulatory Council's task is to review and express its views on the quality of impact assessments on draft laws that have a major impact on companies. In February this year, the Council published its annual report, which looks at impact assessments and how good they are. It turned out that only 36% of the impact assessments were approved. Mr President, I would like to Now I turn to the current case and its impact assessment. Let me quote from the advice of the Rule Council: However, the Council considers that the author of the proposal, i.e. the Government, should have provided example estimates of potential costs for companies that may be affected by the proposal and that example calculations should have been made for different types of companies. ..................................................... Now, I come to the key sentence: in the absence of such information, the Regulatory Council cannot form an opinion on the impact of the proposal on the administrative costs of businesses. The Council finds the accounting of administrative costs to be inadequate. ..................................................... Thus, the organisation that is supposed to be a watchdog cannot determine whether it is significant costs or not, on the basis of what the government has sent them. So we are about to make a decision that we do not really see how it affects companies. Here the government should have done its homework and done a proper impact assessment. This is just one case of many where it is this way. The Moderates and other alliance parties have therefore reacted through a follow-up motion. We believe that the change can have an adverse effect on companies. In this respect, we believe that these consequences need to be investigated after a year in order to ensure that the administrative burden is not overly burdensome. If the investigation reveals difficulties, the government will have to come back with proposals that reduce the administrative burden. I am pleased that a united committee rejects the government's preparation of this matter and that the government receives another announcement against it. It is good that the Riksdag reacts vigorously. I now call on the government parties, represented in this debate by Mr Dibrani of the Social Democrats, to continue to put pressure on their own government to improve the impact assessments. Only 36% are approved. That's not good enough. I said at the outset that this debate is really about the business environment. The government often talks about an active economic policy. Unfortunately, it seems to be about actively sucking all the nutrition out of businesses. There are deteriorations in RUT, there is the introduction of kilometre tax, there is the quota of company boards, there is air tax, there is the deterioration of 3:12 rules, there is the introduction of a financial tax, there are profit restrictions and there are more complicated procurement rules. We must reverse this very unfortunate policy from the government. It's in danger of going out on the job. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-30	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved on both points. It is mandatory for Member States to implement the EU VAT Directives in their respective legislations. The implementing regulation of the Directive also contains provisions which are mandatory for Member States to apply. In this respect, the proposal to adapt the concept of real estate in the VAT Act is essentially uncontroversial. However, the way in which changes are made leaves some other things to be desired in our view, as has also been pointed out by a number of the consultation bodies. The Alliance's motion for an early follow-up of the impact of the bill on the administrative burden on companies was fairly consistent with our understanding of how the bill should be handled. So we chose not to exercise ourselves but to support the Alliance's exercise. It gave us a majority in the committee and led, which is interesting, to the fact that the red-greens also changed their feet and accepted the content of the motion. That is why a united committee now supports the call for rapid follow-up and subsequent measures to eliminate any problems that may arise. Mr President, I would like to It can be noted that the Government has also found it difficult in this proposal to take on board the essential points that have emerged from the consultation procedure. Unfortunately, this is a rule rather than an exception to current legislation. That is bad, because it creates the feeling that the legislator does not understand the reality to be regulated. In particular, this impression concerns the great insensitivity to reality expressed in the argument not to introduce both a reference to the new definition of the concept of immovable property and the actual definition in the VAT Code. This is one of the points that almost all the consultation bodies have pointed out is an important issue in order to make it easy and not introduce new administrative problems. Regardless of how one looks at the substance of the matter, in my view, one can come to no other conclusion than that it is easier for the government to update a definition in a legal text when the underlying definition is changed in the EU implementing regulation than that thousands of companies, the Tax Agency, lawyers and others should be forced to spend tens of thousands of hours each year trying to find and interpret the definition of the regulation, get through endless discussions and court disputes with exorbitant costs, completely unnecessarily. That is the risk we are running with the way the government is acting. Against this background, I would like to point out a couple of conditions that we believe should be the basis for the forthcoming impact assessment and for possible accompanying measures. Firstly, we believe that the administrative effects of the problems of interpretation arising from the fact that the new definition of the concept of immovable property in the VAT Act is not included in the legislative text must be examined and included in an evaluation report to Parliament. Secondly, there is a great risk in substance that the concept of real estate, whose explanation is rather deeply rooted, is replaced by real estate which is a much wider and more difficult to understand concept. The impact of this change of nomenclature, i.e. the actual impact of VAT treatment preferably in many smaller companies, must also be covered by the impact assessment that the government is now tasked with in early 2018. Mr President, I would like to We are therefore looking forward to receiving the Government's follow-up report, and we expect it to be completed at some point in early 2018.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-39	Mr President, I would like to Sweden stands strong in a seemingly increasingly chaotic environment. But our well-being, growth and development power are largely based on old merits. Even if the sun shines today, there are dark clouds in our sky too. Sweden continues to lead internationally, but still loses in competitiveness and innovation. Unemployment, and above all what should be called collective exclusion, persists at too high levels. All of this is happening while the business community is screaming for labour and claiming that the very lack of skilled labour and staff is what forces one to turn down orders and to expand one's business. The mismatch in the labour market may never have been greater or, at least, never been clear, not least in relatively traditional professional skills. At the same time, we are seeing a global trend in the Western world with a reduced interest in vocational education and training in upper secondary school. Mr President, I would like to Why is this relevant? Because it was against this background and in an attempt to bridge this gap that the Alliance introduced the University of Applied Sciences in 2009. It was an important reform, and it is now an important institution in order to meet the needs of the labour market for skilled staff while at the same time providing people with opportunities for further training, upskilling or career change. The latter, however, is something that could be greatly developed, but which is more appropriate to discuss in the next chamber debate. Those who are currently applying for a YH course for the next semester can choose to train themselves to everything from graphic artists, app developers and fiber technicians to chefs, automation engineers or dental nurses. Since the introduction of the University of Applied Sciences, seven years have passed, and the results are good. Students get jobs to a large extent, and employers find the right staff. At the same time, the development potential of the university of applied sciences remains great for the future. And it is good that the government chooses to put energy into developing the university of applied sciences, both in content and in scope. On this there is a broad consensus in this House, which is very positive. Mr President, I would like to Access to polytechnic education needs to be improved. Being able to offer individual courses from the range that already exists should be a matter of course in order to meet the needs that actually exist today. This is not possible, however, and it is something that unnecessarily hampers the supply of skills that would be needed. Many are those who do not need or do not have the opportunity to attend a university of applied sciences for a full two years, but who, with a single course, could compensate for the skills they lack. This is something that we should be able to agree to implement without drawing it on a long bench at the Ministry of Education. I hope that the Social Democrats also want to address this. Similarly, the need for preparatory training for some YH courses is high. Labour market needs are high, but the number of eligible applicants is too small. The Government proposes in the bill that certain preparatory training courses may be carried out by the organiser, but only if it turns out that the basis is too small to start a course round. However, as the admission system is designed for the university of applied sciences, it is only at the start of the course that you know how large the basis is. Then it is far too late to organise a preparatory training course, as many of the consultation bodies have noted. As most of the consultation bodies have also noted, there must be greater flexibility in carrying out preparatory training if they are to work, both in terms of which to adopt and in terms of the content of pre-training. Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning university of applied sciences depends on long-term investment from the world of work in order to secure labour market-related and relevant education. Today, the system is far too narrow and offers only a few training rounds as a guarantee when the business starts up. This makes it unprofitable to launch costly but much-needed training courses, not least on the industrial side. It is therefore directly necessary to allow for more training rounds. In order to deliver good results, closeness to the labour market is crucial. The contacts of the training organiser are directly necessary to ensure the relevant content and, not least, to ensure the proper functioning of the workplace training component. Already today, the Authority places high demands on labour market contacts in order for an organiser to obtain a permit at all. However, the government wants to go further and proposes a largely incomprehensible rule on the bureaucracy of the training organiser's skills, which we believe risks severely limiting those who are given the opportunity to conduct YH training – no matter how good the results are today and historically able to show. Why? It is a reasonable question, and I direct it to the representatives of the Government, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, who support the proposal. Instead, we believe that it is the results that should be the focus of the assessment of organisers. We believe that the YH Agency should have the chance to monitor the quality of each individual organiser and training and actually follow up on which training leads to jobs, which is the point of the whole system. Organizers and training should be assessed according to labour market needs and actual results. In this way, we will ensure that taxpayers' resources are put in the right place. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by saying that I naturally continue to support all the reservations expressed by the Alliance in its accompanying motion. In particular, however, I would like to call for reservation No 1.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-51	Mr President, I would like to Education should lead to jobs. That is the fundamental principle of the Center Party in education policy. Why should education really lead to jobs? Basically, it is about individuals' opportunities and freedom. People choose education primarily for the purpose of getting a specific job or for the purpose of getting a job at all. Therefore, the school must lay the foundations for the future entry of pupils into the labour market, and therefore the link with the labour market is absolutely necessary. Sweden's education system needs to respond to the demand of job-creating companies for skilled labour. It is important for the individual, it is important for companies and it is important for society. Polytechnic education is developed and developed in collaboration between employers, job creators and education providers. They are extremely important and have very good results; already today, nine out of ten students have a polytechnic job a year after graduation. Six out of ten report having a job that is fully or mostly consistent with education. Polytechnic education is education that leads to jobs. The Center Party wants the University of Applied Sciences to become more flexible, simply to better suit people's needs and the labour market they face. The university of applied sciences works very well today, but it can get even better. Today, education is highly concentrated in the larger cities, and the Center Party wants to address this by regionalising universities of applied sciences in order to better respond to the local labour market and the needs of local businesses. The university of applied sciences works well today, but it could work even better. Several proposals put forward by the government in the proposal we are debating today are very good and important for the development of universities of applied sciences, but in other parts you miss the goal. The Alliance therefore has four reservations where we focus on results, increased flexibility, reduced bureaucracy and meeting the different needs of individuals. I would like to express my support for reservation No 1. Of course, we support all the reservations, but that is what we are calling for. Mr President, I would like to In the bill, the Government proposes that an education provider within a university of applied sciences should have the skills and conditions required to organise an education in a professional field. The demand put forward by the government and supported by the majority of the committee is in danger of excluding education providers who show good results and are in good contact with the business community. The focus is on what skills you have instead of what we see as the obvious, namely the result. It is about getting people to work and meeting the needs of the labour market. The quality of education and training should be examined, and not from other sources. In the bill, the government sees problems with the current regulations on the number of training rounds, but it departs from the proposal that came in the memo and instead presents a proposal that risks creating unnecessary bureaucracy and rigidity. The Alliance wants to see a simpler system. The basic principle must be that you are approved for three training rounds, but in the case of narrow courses you can get fewer and in the case of training courses that have a great need in the labour market you can get up to five training rounds. The flexibility is important. We also see the need for independent courses and the opportunity to attend them. It is important, above all, in lifelong learning and in the possibility of re-setting in the middle of life, which is an issue that is becoming increasingly important with the challenge we are facing today in the labour market. We have increased digitalisation and automation where new jobs are created and old jobs disappear. This means that you must be able to develop skills constantly, and then the university of applied sciences must also become more flexible – as it currently works at universities and higher education institutions. There you have the opportunity to take independent courses to quickly strengthen your skills. We hope that the government will take this on board and quickly provide opportunities for independent education within the university of applied sciences as well. Also in the field of preparatory education, the government has focused on red tape rather than creating flexibility and seeing the individual's opportunities. The Government's proposal is that these courses should only be allowed if there is a great need in the labour market and there are no other applicants. Instead, we want it to be possible for the majority, precisely in view of lifelong learning. You're supposed to be able to switch jobs in the middle of your life. It is also about meeting the needs of the labour market and meeting the individual's desire to change. Mr President, I would like to The fundamental principle of the Center Party in education policy is that education should lead to jobs. The university of applied sciences today shows very high results – nine out of ten get jobs after the education. The programmes are developed in collaboration between employers, job creators and education providers, and these are programmes with good results and close links to the labour market. This is something that the Center Party thinks it is important to continue to invest in. It is about meeting the needs of individuals, companies and society. Polytechnic education is education that leads to jobs.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-61	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that, of course, we are in favour of all reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservation 1. As has been said before, all of us who are here today are in agreement in many respects. However, we Liberals and other alliance parties want a little more, and we want it a little faster. We also want it to be even more flexible. The university of applied sciences is intended to match the needs of the labour market. The reason is simple enough: the business community needs to be able to employ people who have qualified professional skills, and the individual needs to be able to acquire skills that are in demand in the labour market. The latter cannot be stressed enough. It is about giving people new opportunities in life – the opportunity to develop or completely change paths. It would be naive to think that it is enough to go to school during the first part of your life and then not need to develop skills. The world is changing, and thankfully we are changing with it. The fact that we now want to change universities of applied sciences is something we very much welcome. In order to match the diverse needs of the labour market in terms of skilled workers, vocational training is needed, and their continuity, long-termness and quality need to be strengthened. There is a need for continuity along with long-termism and, not least, flexibility. In order to avoid unnecessary administration and uncertainty and instead create continuity and the possibility of further development of the training courses, we propose that more training sessions be allowed. This means that the University of Applied Sciences' approval of an education as a general rule should cover three training rounds instead of today's two. However, in the case of programmes that are deemed to be in need of the labour market, but where it is difficult to assess the scope and duration of the need, universities of applied sciences should be allowed to decide on fewer training rounds. On the other hand, considering that there is a long-term need in the labour market for the skills that education can provide, and if the need for these skills is not met outside the university of applied sciences, one can be even more flexible and allow more – up to five – rounds of training. We all want quality in education. There is a need for supervision and quality assurance – where we all agree. However, the government believes that an education provider should have competence in the field of the profession to which the education relates. Instead, we believe that quality review and supervision should relate to individual training courses and take place on the basis of established quality criteria that are linked to results and to student development. However, how these quality criteria are to be formulated – and the precise parameters of quality and performance to be applied – should be assigned to the university of applied sciences to make proposals itself. Not summarising the results of the review is about giving both students and the labour market the opportunity to compare different educations. All people should have the opportunity to restart, to start again or to redo. I myself have two teacher training courses behind me, but I still don't really know what to do when I grow up. It should be possible to read further and develop within the profession once chosen. But one should also be able to choose something new and study something completely different, because the labour market is constantly changing. By making it possible to study preparatory and basic courses, which are tailored in terms of content and duration, within the higher education institution of applied sciences, more people can qualify for the courses of the higher education institution of applied sciences. If there was also an opportunity, like universities and universities, to offer independent courses, those who need to quickly supplement their knowledge could easily do so. Furthermore, the person would not have to be away too long from his job, which we know is difficult both for the employer and for the individual. I started by saying that the idea of the University of Applied Sciences is that the education should match the needs of the labour market and that it should provide an opportunity for a restart and a new start. The University of Applied Sciences also has a great potential to improve matching in the labour market and make it possible to change paths later in life, one or more times.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-73	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it is good to be able to stop and look out over the world as a citizen. What does public service look like in the rest of the world? How has it developed, and where is it today? We could beat ourselves a little bit to the chest and say that those who have lived before us in Svea have created an incredible opportunity for us to make a nation with good welfare an even better country with an even better welfare. The university of applied sciences is, in general, something that we can be proud of, but that can get better. More people can have the opportunity, training can be increased and greater focus can be placed on cooperation with the business community. We want to be a country that takes advantage of people's know-how, interest and personal abilities. We must not forget that our society is best served by taking advantage of and further developing our differences in interaction with each other. It will not be good if we align ourselves so that everyone does, goes and stands the same. We're supposed to be able to educate ourselves and get a job. We should be able to feel needed, have cohesion and feel important to someone else. Since Sweden is a knowledge nation, the development of new knowledge is a key issue for Sweden to be competitive. This ensures welfare in the longer term. The report we are talking about here, A strengthened university of applied sciences a, shows in itself some of what I mean by trying to take advantage of our differences, our commitment and our interests, while at the same time making use of new knowledge. Things can happen in life that make it necessary to take on new education. The University of Applied Sciences is precisely what is needed for many people, and they are extremely grateful for this opportunity to give a new direction to the world of work. I would like to point out that university of applied sciences is important in view of the future we are facing, with a more flexible labour market. It is important for the supply of skills and matching the urgent needs of the business community. When visiting companies, it is recognised that the proximity to training and flexibility of both companies and training providers is of paramount importance. The University of Applied Sciences is of central importance for industry's ability to employ people with professional skills and for the individual's ability to acquire professional skills that are in demand in the labour market. In the 2015 call for proposals, the Authority received 1,421 applications for polytechnic education starting in autumn 2016 or spring 2017. Of the applications received, 446 were granted, which corresponds to 25 700 student places. This would give 25,700 people the opportunity to take the opportunity. Although we all agree on the benefits of vocational training for society and for the individual, there are things in this bill that we Christian Democrats do not think are good. We believe that there is a need for a more long-term approach to education. As a general rule, the University of Applied Sciences' approval of education should cover three rounds of training instead of the two of the present day. In the case of programmes that are deemed to be in need of the labour market, but where it is difficult to assess the scope and duration of the need, the university of applied sciences should be allowed to decide on fewer training rounds. If you consider that there is a long-term need in the labour market for the knowledge that education can provide – and if the need for this knowledge is not met outside the university of applied sciences – we believe, like the proposal in the memo, that a decision should be allowed to cover up to five rounds of training. So we want a more long-term approach, and we see the value of the stability that can come from it. Too short lead times will pose difficulties in recruiting the most suitable staff and in gaining stability in organisation, staff and locality. We also believe that the focus should be on the results of individual training courses and that these – instead of the training provider – should be examined on the basis of quality. Otherwise, it may have the effect of staring blindly at the education provider, even though – in my view – it is the individual education that is important for quality and results. If you focus only on the providers of education, there is a risk that well-qualified providers of education will be excluded from pursuing polytechnic education with good results, which would be very regrettable for us as a nation. The other parts have been explained in an exemplary way by my fellow alliances, and I have only to agree with that. The Alliance has four reservations in common, but for the sake of simplicity and flexibility, I only call for reservation 1.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-89	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the committee's report, with the clarification contained in the report, to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. This discussion is about the government proposal A strengthened university of applied sciences – a boost for knowledge. The proposal, together with changes already made to the regulation of the university of applied sciences, deals with how the university of applied sciences can be strengthened and how it can continue to develop as an important link for qualified vocational training in the education system. But that is not just the case, Mr President. The development of the University of Applied Sciences is also an important part of the Government's commitment to a knowledge boost for Sweden, with increased opportunities for education for adults, in various forms. The transfer of knowledge includes, among other things, a substantial expansion of adult vocational training and a proposal to introduce a right to qualification in Komvux. The knowledge transfer also includes an extension of the University of Applied Sciences with 6,000 seats per year over the next three years. In 2016, a total of 44 000 state-funded training places will be added in various forms. This will include more than 68 000 seats in 2019. This will give more adults in our country a chance to learn to get a job, take a new job, retrain to a new profession, gain higher education qualifications, further train for better career opportunities and to strengthen their personal development. That, Mr President, is very good. The University of Applied Sciences is the form of education that will respond to the needs of the labour market for qualified post-secondary vocational education. It is available in all counties and shows very good results when it comes to matching job seekers with the needs of the industry's workforce. Nine out of ten students have work the year after graduation, many in the field of education. The University of Applied Sciences is thus an important and successful part of the education system aimed at adults. The proposal and the report we are discussing today contain a number of assessments and proposals aimed at strengthening activities. A recurring comment on the university of applied sciences has been, in addition to the fact that there are too few places, that it has been difficult for organisers to get decisions that are valid for a longer period of time. Time that could be used to develop the content of the training courses may instead be used to write new applications and wait for a decision to be made. This may be particularly difficult for training courses where there is a high and long-term demand for labour or for training courses that require large investments in machinery, equipment, premises and more for the organisers. In the bill, the Government considers that a course should be included in the university of applied sciences for a longer period of time than today and that the decision to start a course should generally cover more than two rounds of education. It can be three, four or even five depending on the conditions. Such a change, with the possibility of longer decision-making periods for training courses, meets these views and criticisms and should make it easier to spend time developing the quality of education and training. It also clarifies the university of applied sciences as a clear career path for vocational education and training. The courses of the university of applied sciences should therefore continue to be given in different numbers of courses. In this way, the university of applied sciences can combine flexibility, i.e. to adapt rapidly to changing educational and labour needs, with continuity and long-term sustainability of the courses that require it. The proposal and the report also propose clearer provisions for those who organise education and training within the university of applied sciences to have the skills and conditions necessary to organise training in the field of education to which the training relates. I think that a rather obvious starting point when you organise an education is that you have competence in the area for which you should educate people. Obviously, this view is shared by several of the referral bodies on the bill and on the investigation that has been carried out. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Central Organisation of Officials and several important professional organisations that need labour from the University of Applied Sciences share this view. I think it is important to have this with you when you say that this is an incomprehensible rule that makes the university of applied sciences' activities more difficult. Clearly, those who benefit from the university of applied sciences do not think this is a major obstacle or an incomprehensible rule. On the contrary, it enhances quality and provides the opportunity to further develop universities of applied sciences. Having said that, I would also like to draw the House's attention to the clarification that the committee is making on this point, because we have had a discussion on this in committee. In the bill, the Government describes who is to have this competence in the education provider when the training provider is a legal person. The committee would like to make it clear that the proposal and its texts only provide an example of who or who should have this competence. The committee adds that where in an organisation the person or persons required to have the professional competence depends on the organisation of the training provider. Time passes, Mr President, but I would like to comment on one more point, namely the possibility of entering and supplementing the qualifications of university of applied sciences. There are currently no forms within the University of Applied Sciences to supplement its eligibility to participate in YH courses. It's a flaw. The government is now proposing that this be possible. Today, there are several important YH courses for the labour market that cannot be implemented, not in the absence of applicants, but in the absence of qualified applicants. The proposal now proposes that the Government should be able to give instructions to the University of Applied Sciences that an education within the University of Applied Sciences may be conducted as a qualification for upper secondary education. This is similar to the regime applicable to higher education institutions and universities, which have a corresponding right. Pre-training should be offered in connection with regular YH training, if there is a shortage of qualified applicants and there is a need for labour with such skills. With this, Mr President, I would once again like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-FUhJt88wLzshUFv9nJUUyR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Bergman, for the post! Yes, the University of Applied Sciences has a hugely important role to play in strengthening existing staff. Many YH courses have fairly high entry requirements, which means that in reality it is only people who already have an education or a job in the field that can be developed through the university of applied sciences. It is, in a sense, a reasonable order, but it is not reasonable to have the only possibility. It is important that you can also use the University of Applied Sciences to enable career changes and also enable shifts. Mr President, I would like to Håkan Bergman himself said in his post that we have great challenges linked to the fact that there are many important courses that need to get started, not least on the industrial side where it is difficult to get trainings started because there are too many applicants who do not have the qualifications. There, the lack of competence would have to be compensated by some form of pre-training. Such training is currently provided on the private market, but it is a rather costly solution for the individual. The government is, indeed, proposing to have the opportunity to organise such training within YH, which is a good thing. The only problem is that the government proposes to do so only when there is a found lack of qualified applicants. As polytechnic admissions are designed, you only know on the day when the education starts how many actually show up for the education at all. In this situation, therefore, it will be impossible to organise a five-week course of preparation because the course round has already started. This is what the Alliance has pointed out, and this is where we have requested an amendment. That is why we have reservation No 3 to bring about this change. I wonder: How do the government parties, together with the Left and the Swedish Democrats, think when they say that it is only when the students do not show up that they should start a preparatory education?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-113	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say that, despite the discussion on certain parts, I think it is fun and good that we have a great deal of sympathy behind the university of applied sciences as a form of education. There is certainly much that we can continue to develop within the university of applied sciences to strengthen it as an important part of the education system. As far as this is concerned, it is the case that courses within the university of applied sciences run at different times. You can see in the demand for places where there is a shortage of applicants combined with a great need for labour. This opens up the possibility of offering pre-training for such areas within the framework of the university of applied sciences. The Swedish National Agency for Higher Education also conducts analyses, forecasts and assessments of the educational needs. The very thing about the agency is that you should try to assess where there is a need for new labour in different areas and in what way you can arrange such training courses. I believe that it is possible to do this within the framework of the University of Applied Sciences and to offer this kind of supplementary training for shortage professions. But it is also a cost issue because it is to be financed within the framework of the Agency.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-117	Mr President, I would like to Allowing the need for future places and labour market needs to guide where you can have preparatory training is a good idea. That is exactly what the Alliance has proposed. But that is not what the government is proposing and that the government parties, together with the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, intend to vote through. What you say in the bill is that it is only when you have a found lack of applicants to a specific start that you should be allowed to arrange a prep school training. This is only known on the day the training starts, and then it is too late to organise one. In the proposal, the majority of the committee refers to the fact that this is the order used in higher education, which is why it should also be a good system for universities of applied sciences. In the university you have a system where an applicant close to the start of the course can only have applied for an alternative. There, an applicant can only be admitted to an education and only start an education. In other words, there you can know how many applicants you have. But in universities of applied sciences, someone can apply for 15 courses across the country and be accepted to all but only show up on one. Then you'll have a shortage of the other 14, a shortcoming you didn't know about. That is why there must be greater flexibility in preparatory training. It would be desirable for the majority to read through its proposal and its report and then backtracked and instead voted in favour of the Alliance's line under paragraph 3 of the vote this afternoon. Otherwise, I share Håkan Bergman's picture regarding the development of the University of Applied Sciences. It is a very important complement between vocational education and training at primary level and basic education on the one hand and higher education on the other. I hope that Håkan Bergman has continued to have a strong influence on the Social Democrats and that we can stand here many more times and continue to expand the University of Applied Sciences for a long time to come.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-125	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Bengtzboe for the kind words and the calls. I think the university of applied sciences is important. So do the Social Democrats and the Red-Green Government, so we are committed to expanding the university of applied sciences and to increasing flexibility, continuity and long-term sustainability. It's important. Erik Bengtzboe underestimates the possibility of assessing where there is a labour shortage and a lack of applicants for various courses. It is part of the Authority's mission, and it is quite possible, to carry out this type of analysis and also to offer pre-training courses to areas where there is a high labour shortage and where there are too few applicants. In this way, the level of preparation can be increased so that more people can be admitted to the programmes. This can certainly be further developed, but as the mandate falls within the Authority's budgetary framework, it will be a higher cost if the possibility is extended to general admission to polytechnic courses. In that case, these funds must be taken from the places of study that can and will be created within the university of applied sciences, and I believe that the Alliance has a problem.
i-45RL2W28tyxYVY7pdvcWL5	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. The proposal for new rules for admission and operation of the university of applied sciences is good. The future will tell if there are weaknesses in the proposal, but at present we cannot see any. The University of Applied Sciences is a very important form of school as it will provide the labour market with relevant labour force and give those who have not completed theoretical higher education a good chance in working life. The University of Applied Sciences is also an important part of the solution to what we call mismatches. In some training courses, the problem is rather to get enough applicants. In the long run, we may have to look at filling up the places of certain urgent training courses by means of financial incentives. One question concerning the government's proposal is the number of training rounds in each decision. The bill is not really strict on this point. However, our conclusion is that the number of training rounds will increase and that three rounds will be the main rule. It will contribute to more long-term sustainability and provide increased incentives to acquire expensive equipment, etc. In addition, decisions will be made more flexible in terms of the number of rounds. From what we understand, this is what the universities of applied sciences themselves have asked for, and we have no objection to the proposal on this point. Some consultation bodies have had different views on the number of training rounds. I suspect they have had some trouble understanding this particular section of the bill. Perhaps a clearer wording could have been requested in the bill in the text of the bread. Mr President, I would like to The rules will be more generous for those who need to supplement their education in order to qualify for polytechnic education. The University of Applied Sciences may organise pre-training courses if there is a shortage of applicants and there is a labour market need. We have nothing to say against this. It's generous, good and reasonable. Of course, we can think of even more generous rules, but limits must be set for all proposals. We also believe that the eligibility requirements are reasonable. The basic requirement is knowledge equivalent to upper secondary school. In addition, special requirements can be made to pass the training. This seems reasonable. An example given in the bill is that a traffic pilot must have good eyesight. That goes without saying, Mr President. Who wants to fly with a half-blind pilot? State authorities other than universities and higher education institutions shall be allowed to organise polytechnic education. We see only the benefits of this change. This will, according to the bill, allow the Coast Guard and the Finnish Customs to complete polytechnic education, which we think is excellent. In principle, we have no objection to the proposal following the addition that came in on the competence of the organiser. I read this section of the bill several times and first interpreted the wording as meaning that the organiser should have sufficient competence to organise vocational training, not sufficient competence in the field of the profession itself. Section 12 of the proposed legislative text also indicates this. It is also stated on p. 30 in the bill that the organiser shall own a certain amount of industry knowledge. I think that's a good thing. After all, the matter was somewhat clarified with the complement that came in, although it was not perfectly written either. However, the proposal as a whole is excellent.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-143	Mr President, I would like to When you meet people in different contexts and have talked for a while you almost always land in the question: What do you do? Having a job is an important part of a person's life, being part of a social context, being able to support oneself and feel confirmed. I don't think I've ever met anyone who didn't want to work, but the conditions are so different for all of us. For the vast majority of jobs, some form of training is required. It can be based on practice or theory, but it can also be an education based on both practice and theory. The university of applied sciences is based on the latter. It is an education based on companies offering internships, and in school you get the theoretical knowledge. It's called LIA, learning in work. Getting your education in a combination of theory and practice makes you understand how important the two parts are, and it provides security and depth in knowledge. It also keeps the education up-to-date on developments in the profession. It also gives students the opportunity to get in touch with the working life in which they are eventually going. The University of Applied Sciences has been developed and was named before qualified vocational education. Its task is to offer training courses to professions where there is a lack of skills and there is a great demand in the labour market. The needs of the labour market are diverse and not always predictable. The organisation of training in a professional field requires the presence of one or more persons qualified to pursue training in the specific training of the organisation. To date, the training provider has been granted two training sessions, each lasting two years. This certainly works for some trainings, but for others it is on the shortest team. However, in order for a training provider to have the courage to invest in training, which requires substantial investment in both staff and equipment, there needs to be a long-term perspective. The government's assessment is that the courses within the university of applied sciences should be given in different numbers of rounds. In this way, the university of applied sciences can combine flexibility with continuity and long-termness. Mr President, I would like to There is now a clear need for complementary action to ensure that vocational education and training that is particularly sought after by the world of work is brought about. The Government has therefore proposed in the bill that an education within the university of applied sciences may be conducted as a qualification for upper secondary education. The Government believes that pre-training should be offered in connection with a regular polytechnic education if there is a shortage of qualified candidates for the regular education and there is a need for labour with the skills that the regular education aims to provide. Simplifying for those who want to go to university of applied sciences but do not have the right qualifications is the right way to go. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-150	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Knutsson for her speech. The University of Applied Sciences today performs a hugely important function and today delivers enormous quality. Nine out of ten of those attending the programme have a post-graduate job, and six out of ten have it specifically within exactly what they more or less studied at the university of applied sciences. Compared with vocational education and training at upper secondary level, at the level of Komvux and also at higher education, it is recognised that the university of applied sciences is of the highest quality. It should be allowed to act as a yardstick for how things are handled. On the question of quality, however, the government, with the support of the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, proposes to tighten up the requirements on what competence an organizer must have in order to be able to pursue a polytechnic education. The way it works today must be able to show that you have contacts with your professional life, that you can guarantee LIA places and that you have an advisory board or similar with representatives from the industry or sector in order to be able to carry out the training and get the permit at all. Instead, the Government's proposal includes a legislative amendment requiring the organiser to have the necessary professional expertise in his own right. This means that all organizers are now forced to spend money on hiring a person who works in the specific industry that they train to. This is true even if they already have very good educations today but perhaps lack the specific person. The majority of the committee has stated this. It has tried to improve the wording as much as possible with an addition to the report, but it does not actually solve the problem. Does the government not see the risk of excluding organisers who have good quality, deliver good results but cannot participate in the YH system with the change of legislation?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-155	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Of course, we can see it from that point of view, but we must also look at it from the point of view of taxpayers. We want to strengthen and be sure that the training is carried out in the way and with the knowledge and weight needed to carry out an education. We don't want to say afterwards; oh then, here we have made a decision, and it went a little fast. Here we have not ensured that we have good competence in education. The wording that the committee has added to supplement in the light of the misconception that you are reading is, in my view, full.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-156	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. This is your message to the Komvux division that has been training adults for 30 years in the context of Komvux, for example, in the construction industry and the legislative amendment that you are proposing. It may lack the person who has that competence within its own organization, even though it may have delivered an education for 30 years. It may have restarted it as a YH training, made it successful perhaps for seven years and delivered competent staff to employers. However, it has no employee within its own organisation who has a professional experience from the relevant industry. The message to it is, you can go out and hire a carpenter, or you won't get a permit.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-158	Mr President, I would like to If a komvux has had that education for as many years as 30 years, one must be able to say that there is a competence. It is not that the headmaster should sit with the competence, but it may be out in the organisation. I cannot imagine that a good education in Komvux has been delivered for 30 years without having any skills. It doesn't feel like a big problem.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-159	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates want to enable all people to get an education that meets the demand of the labour market in order to create more job opportunities. Sometimes people lack complete education, and some need to change their profession or direction for various reasons. In that case, municipal adult education plays a major role. We must create opportunities for people to continue to develop and take responsibility for their own lives. Mr President, I would like to Then the proposal is a good first step with the change in adult education, which includes an increased right to participate in komvux. This is how we create opportunities for more people to educate themselves on to work. We wish, however, that the government too, like us, would like to follow up the throughput in high school so that it does not become an effect where more people choose to drop out of high school because it is simply easier to go to Komvux instead. We Moderates think, together with our friends in the Alliance, that these rules should also apply to special school, so that you do not create displacement effects there. Mr President, I would like to It is important to enable people to enter special admissions in order to be able to continue studying at university. But we also want to take this opportunity to point out that it must be the student's individual wishes that govern and not a general decree that everyone must continue to study at the university. Mr President, I would like to It is also important for us that reforms are implemented as smoothly as possible for as many people as possible. Therefore, we would have liked there to be transitional rules to meet the problem of admission that both the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate have highlighted. We Moderates think it would have been appropriate to make proposals in connection with this proposal and also the budget proposal yesterday to increase opportunities to combine work and studies. Mr President, I would like to We want the free amount – the income students can have without reducing the means of study – to be increased so that a conversion package makes it economically possible for a parent, for example, to be away from the labour market and study for a period of time. So far, the government has said no to this. The government thus says no to facilitate the opportunity to study further for those who want to take responsibility and work at the same time as studying. Mr President, I would like to Tomorrow, a boy from Afghanistan turns 18. He has come to Sweden and has been here for a year. During this time he has studied language introduction and become really good at Swedish and in many other subjects. This guy is still an asylum seeker as he hasn't been allowed to move on to the Migration Agency yet, that is, his question has not yet been investigated. Today he goes on the last day of language introduction as an unaccompanied refugee child. Tomorrow he'll be a grown-up. He's a hux flux adult, but he doesn't have a social security number so he can't study on sfi. And since he hasn't started a national program, he has no right to go on to high school. Mr President, I would like to Adults previously had the right to Swedish education, but this right was removed by the Finnish Immigration Service in order to shorten waiting times. Waiting times are still long. Someone may wonder why this is relevant. Well, unless there is an active study association that organises Swedish education on site, there is therefore no possibility to study Swedish at the place where you end up. Half of the new arrivals to Sweden have only one education that corresponds to a maximum of nine or ten years of primary education. One third do not even have completed primary education from their home country. We think it is important that everyone works and does the right thing, and we also believe that everyone wants to do it. We have compulsory schooling in Sweden even ninth grade. We Moderates think that it should also apply to people who come to Sweden later in life. The possibility of introducing an education obligation for newcomers who do not have a comprehensive school and do not manage to make their own living should be explored. In the meantime, however, we also need to close the gaps between the chairs where people fall down every day. There they stumble, and they will not make any progress unless there are voluntary efforts in place. Therefore, we Moderates want to see more of combined training within the start-up assignment where basic adult education is interspersed with SFI and vocational training. We want to stimulate such training through specific means. If it had been our budget that went through yesterday, this would also have been a reality. Mr President, I would like to More teachers are needed, and more teachers need education in Swedish as a second language. Only twelve higher education institutions currently have a degree permit and thus the opportunity to conduct courses in Swedish as a second language. We want to investigate the possibility of introducing distance courses in Swedish as a second language that can be combined with internships in SFI activities. This would enable teachers throughout the country to have the necessary conditions to be qualified to conduct Swedish education for immigrants. More summer courses in Swedish as a second language is another idea to meet the growing need. However, we do not seem to agree on the challenges we face and the challenges we face. That, dear listeners, will unfortunately help us to have greater challenges in Swedish schools and adult education when we really need to make things easier. I am in favour of our reservation as a whole.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-173	Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of our own motion 834, motion 5, that is, reservation 2. The meaning of our motion is the same as that manifested in the bill. I shall now turn to talking about the proposal itself. The opportunity to attend municipal adult education is good and a step in lifelong learning. That's what we call a second chance. Those who do not have upper secondary education have the right to attend Komvux in order to obtain a upper secondary school degree. According to the Government's proposal, it must also be possible to study special eligibilitys for admission to courses within the university or university of applied sciences. But no one says you have to do it. The Government's proposal extends the possibilities of reading these specific competences to enable them to obtain a sensible education or even an education that the labour market is asking for. We think this is reasonable, especially if we can get more people into the labour market in this way. Current proposals mean that more individuals will have the right to acquire higher education or university of applied sciences through komvux. In principle, the proposal provides for the possibility to study in Komvux for anyone who has no specific competence for a higher education or a university of applied sciences in order to obtain this qualification. In particular, the requirement to have completed an upper secondary vocational programme in order to obtain the right to further studies is removed. That's probably the biggest change in the whole bill. The proposal is generous; some consultation bodies object that it is perhaps too generous in some paragraphs. It remains to be seen how the proposal strikes in reality. As also pointed out in the bill, there is an ultimate limitation on the possibility of obtaining student loans. It is therefore difficult to see how the system could be misused or over-used in a systematic way. That is why we have not called for the proposal to be rejected. The proposal also means that the municipalities have some flexibility in terms of the offer of courses and that they are not obliged to offer all courses, which seems reasonable to us. An applicant does not have the right to require distance training, which we consider self-evident. Another effect that might be worth mentioning is that equivalence with this proposal is increased as municipalities already grant studies to those who have not attended a secondary vocational programme. This will make it equal across the country and that all municipalities will set the bar equally high. Of course, with this proposal, costs will increase in part, mainly for the state. Nevertheless, we consider it justified that we must get people to work in every way and that a relevant education is nevertheless a prerequisite for this. There are also possibilities for the government to limit the right to compux if costs run out or the system is misused – this by regulation and not by law. Mr President, I would like to Overall, the Government's proposal is generous, and we may fear a limited increase in the cost of the proposal. However, the changes are justified, bearing in mind that we must in every way provide the opportunity for people outside the labour market to finally get a job.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-181	Mr President, I would like to Adult education is becoming increasingly important, in particular for people to be able to change, develop and have the opportunity to study further at university or university of applied sciences. Adult education in Komvux and vocational adult education is particularly important for lifelong learning and for giving people a second chance to complete and complete their education. The fundamental principle of the Center Party is that education should lead to jobs. Many shortages currently exist in areas where upper secondary vocational training is demanded by employers. Quite recently, a report showed that 45% of the qualifications requested by employers and companies were vocational education and training at upper secondary level. This also makes the professional adult particularly important in view of the development we have in high school and education there. We must create better conditions for people to be able to choose later in life the training required by companies and job creators. We must ensure that vocational training is broadened and meets the shortage of labour, and we must further strengthen these training courses. It is important to emphasise in today's debate. There is a challenge today, and it is that municipalities often use vocational adult education and training to meet their own demand for skills supply. That is good enough, but it must better match the shortage that companies and job creators, who ensure that we get tax revenue to the country, experience so that we better meet their challenges. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants people to decide more for themselves. The Swedish primary and secondary school has long been based on the students themselves being allowed to choose which school they want to attend. They are given the opportunity to choose education and it creates competition between different education providers and drives development forward and boosts quality. Although the benefits of freedom of choice are obvious, this is not possible for municipal adult education. The students applying for these courses are referred to the municipalities or the educational providers that the municipalities employ. The Center Party wants to see another way forward. We want to see an adult allowance, like a system that exists in Nacka municipality – the Nacka model – where freedom of choice is allowed even in adult education. This gives the individual a better opportunity to choose a training provider, and it creates better conditions to both match the needs of the labour market and the individual's conditions. It is based on having a money system that, as in other education systems, follows the student and goes to the educational provider of your choice. Mr President, I would like to Although the Center Party wants to see further reforms in adult education in order to give people better opportunities in the labour market and better opportunities to decide for themselves their own lives, we welcome the government proposal on this matter. We share the view that anyone who wants to have the right to enter the specific eligibility they may need in order to be admitted to university studies or university of applied sciences. But it is also important, as we point out in our reservation from the Alliance, to complete the way this reform lands. With the removal of the lower age limit so that it is possible to start komvux from lower ages, upper secondary school risks being eroded. It really has to be followed and evaluated, and we hope that the government will take it on board. We would also like to see a review of particularity in order to enable that access also so that it does not slip behind or evasive effects occur. Finally, I would like to say that adult education is becoming increasingly important. This is what the labour market is actually asking for to a large extent, i.e. education at upper secondary level. If young people do not read the education and training requested by the labour market today, we must ensure that adult education and training is collected. As a result, education leads to more jobs.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-192	Mr President, I would like to Komvux is needed. We all agree on that. I think that we are equally agreed on the need for development, of moving along with time and of changing when the outside world is doing so. But it is important to ensure that Komvux does not become a rescue plank for those municipalities that do not have the power to give students what they need in high school. Too often we see the tendency to shoot problems for the students ahead of us. What they do not receive in primary school should be given to them in secondary school, and what they do not receive in secondary school should give them. If you don't get through high school, it's going to be in high school. There's a chance there'll be the same thing here with komvux. Both young people and adults should be given a second chance to complete and complete their education. At the same time, the starting point should continue to be that pupils should, as far as possible, reach the qualifications they need in regular upper secondary education. Therefore, it is important to investigate and follow up how this age limit affects the throughput in upper secondary school. In their referrals, the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate states that speciality at upper secondary level is not covered by the proposal on the right to basic eligibility for the university of applied sciences and Komvux and thus they see a risk of displacement effects. It's true, and it makes me very worried. This is the only target group not covered by the rights reform. The lock-in effect of special school will then be even worse. There is a need for a review of particularity as a matter of urgency. While I have the floor, I would like to say how important it is to look after this group, these individuals, so that they also have every opportunity and opportunity to develop as far and as much as they can. The possibilities for further studies for those in special education are almost non-existent, and of course this should not be the case. I think we agree there. We, like the government, believe that it is important that anyone who wants to have the right to enter the specific eligibility that they may need to be admitted to college or university of applied sciences. However, we would like to emphasise that it is important to always start from the individual's own wishes. What is best for yourself, you usually know best yourself, provided that you get support and information from a study counselor. That's why SYV is incredibly important, because then the individual can decide, in consultation with a study and career counselor, which path to take and how to walk it, instead of the municipality doing so. I support our reservation No 1.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-199	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by reading out a text that I think describes a lot of what we should talk about. I have always worked with people in one way or another while being curious about my health as a whole. A friend of mine tipped me off about this education. I thought the arrangement suited me very well so I submitted an application and then started studying. I also saw that there were great opportunities to actually get a permanent job after the education, says Daniel. ––– During my previous schooling I have always felt that I have a bit tougher than many others to learn new things. At Kompetenscentrum I was helped through the Studio to conduct a dyslexia inquiry. It showed that I did not have dyslexia, but I did have problems with interpretation. That means I get to work extra hard to bring in new information. The studio issued a certificate that gave me the opportunity to divide major courses into several parts. Instead of a big test, I have several smaller ones. This has helped me a lot and I am so happy with the support I have received. It has made me pass my studies and I find it fun, says Daniel. ––– I want to apply to the university and in order to be able to get that authorisation, I will first study social studies and mathematics. What I would like to study for is a psychologist, but I am also thinking about a nurse or a sociologist, says Daniel. ..................................................... This is just one in a row of inspiration stories on Kungsbacka Municipality's website. We must not forget who Komvux is for. It is for those who need some extra support and help. But we should also remember what it can mean for them. The story shows what adult education can mean – a new chance through an individually adapted education that puts the student at the centre. Unfortunately, this inspiration report shows that we have not succeeded fully in the school system before. We cannot just rely on catching this up later. Elementary school and upper secondary school must ensure that the individual learner and individual receive the greater help they need. Every student is worth as much, and every student we have to deal with afterwards is a failure. But if, despite all the attempts, we do not achieve the desired result, komvux is so much more important. It is also important that education is of good quality and adapted to the individual. The municipalities currently have an obligation under the Education Act to offer komvux at upper secondary level. The municipality of residence is responsible for allowing adults who are entitled to and wish to participate in Komvux to do so. The municipality can organise it itself or in some form of customer choice system, where the individual gets more flexibility. Adult education has been given an increasingly important role in the establishment of foreign-borns. An increasing proportion of students in high school adult education are born abroad, and the proportion is increasing almost every year. The proposed legislative changes are an extension of the right to participate in Komvux at upper secondary level with a view to achieving basic and specific qualifications for higher education. It is also proposed that there should be a right to take part in studies at upper secondary level with a view to obtaining basic qualifications and special knowledge for education in higher education. We talked about the importance of the university of applied sciences a moment ago, and we should keep that in mind. This bill is basically good. But we in the Alliance have a reservation. In the bill, the government states that there should be no lower age limit for the right to start training in Komvux. Several referrals, however, are of a different opinion, such as Skolverket, Danderyd municipality and Umeå municipality. There is an ongoing discussion of the impact of the proposal on the flow of the upper secondary school. We believe that the government should consider, in the follow-up and investigation of the reform that we propose, also investigating the impact of the change on the throughput in high school. It is important that both young people and adults are given a second chance to complete and complete their education. At the same time, the starting point should continue to be that pupils should, as far as possible, reach the qualifications they need in regular upper secondary education. With that, I support the Alliance's reservation No 1.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-208	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Education and Training on the right to professional training in Komvux. It is a question of increasing the right to participate in municipal adult education at upper secondary level with a view to obtaining basic and special qualifications for tertiary education starting at first-cycle level and aimed at beginners. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. These are important things we are going to discuss here today and decide on in the future. It is very much about people's freedom to grow, to build on their knowledge bank and to turn things around together with others. Adult education means all that. Adult education is important as a necessary basis for work, a platform for further studies and a way out of unemployment. The opportunity is given to acquire new skills or vocational training. We know that the proportion of jobs requiring only short-term training is falling at a furious rate. Despite this knowledge, there are parties and organisations that constantly return to the fact that the government must create opportunities for people to take these simple jobs, which therefore do not exist but are to be created. I may think it's about a thousand times better to equip people to take the jobs that require more education, more education, more of everything. That is one reason why social democratic governments have pushed the issue of education and education for all, not just for a few. We know that man's freedom depends on the ability to make free choices, to support oneself and to be an independent person. To do so requires recurring opportunities in life. Adult education is almost the best there is. This means an opportunity to rebuild what one might have missed in the course of primary or secondary school, for various reasons. As a participant in adult education and training, you are given the opportunity to increase your personal freedom. Together with people you might not have met otherwise you have the opportunity to discuss knowledge and everyday challenges. This government believes that it is important to be able to train for the rest of your life. Then the systems for it must also follow. It's about everything from being as simple as possible to the study social coming along. The issue is that there are grants and loans and that you have the right to be on leave for studies. These are important things, once you decide to change from the path you once chose. If we are serious about lifelong learning, adult education is an extremely important piece of the puzzle that must work. Mr President, I would like to I would like to end this speech by pressing on a few points in the report. The proposal provides for an increased right to participate in municipal adult education with a view to achieving basic and specific competences for higher education or polytechnic education. So it opens doors that have previously been closed. That's good. This means, for example, that a person who has attended the social programme can now study at Komvux in order to be eligible for studies at the university of applied sciences. We also know that adults with disabilities today generally have a lower level of education and are more difficult to establish themselves in the labour market than others. It's a challenge. An increased right to education and training that provides lifelong access to training can be particularly beneficial to this group. That's really good. An extended right to education removes the injustice that has existed in the past in terms of what education has been allowed to take part in depending on where you live. To be guaranteed access to qualification training will simplify future possible changes of career. It benefits both individuals and society. Finally, 90% of all those who came to our country during the great wave of refugees last year are under 40 years old and have a long career ahead of them. This change will help to give them better opportunities to build on and reset what they have with them in their backpacks. In this way they can take their place in workplaces around our country where they are so much needed already and will be needed in the future. We need more paths to education and work for adults. That is why it is a good thing that this proposal opens the way for that very thing.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-221	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Alliance's reservation to be approved, which I missed in my speech. It was interesting to listen to Gunilla Svantorp. These are questions that are close to my heart. However, when I read in the report, I am reacting to one thing. On p. 14, it says that, according to the committee, higher education is, in many cases, a prerequisite for getting a job. At the same time, we can see in recruitment surveys from the business community that what is most in demand are people with competence from upper secondary vocational education and training. It is extremely important to strengthen the possibility for more people to apply for these courses. I also highlighted this in my speech. Today, too few students choose vocational education and training at upper secondary level. It must therefore be possible to read it in adult education. It is an important issue, precisely in order for us to be able to face that deficiency. The alternative is that we hamper the development of companies and thereby growth and Swedish competitiveness. Of the respondents to the recruitment survey, 45 per cent apply for staff with competence based on upper secondary vocational education, and only 31 per cent apply for staff with higher education skills. Do Gunilla Svantorp and the Social Democrats want everyone to study higher education? According to the text of the report, you believe that higher education is a prerequisite for getting a job.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-227	Mr President, I would like to I think the report makes quite clear what we think. Education is important, and now I also see that it says higher education. According to the EU, the jobs that require lower education will disappear and the jobs that require higher education will become more and more. We have to take altitude because things are going to happen. We see that jobs that existed 20 years ago do not exist today. It was then that such jobs required lower education. We know that upper secondary vocational education is very important. That is why we have struggled to change what happened in the last parliamentary term, that students did not apply for upper secondary vocational education because of the changed rules that Fredrik's party was involved in introducing. It should be attractive to apply for upper secondary vocational education. Of course, it is important to have higher education, and this includes, of course, vocational training.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-231	Mr President, I would like to What companies are asking for, and which I showed both in my speech and at the turn of the line, are precisely people with upper secondary education and, above all, people with upper secondary vocational training. If even more people are going to go to higher education, labour market matching will deteriorate even further. This puts our competitiveness and the ability of companies to recruit the workforce they need at risk. Then the education system must better match this. There is a challenge today in terms of higher education. It is good that many people in Sweden have the opportunity to go there. On the basis of the previous debate on polytechnics, I would like to highlight the aspect that higher education is not only academic education, but also vocational education and training is good. But that is not the whole picture of reality. Companies are also calling for other workers. The challenge in the labour market today is poor matching, which creates displacement effects in various respects. This requires a good education system that meets these needs. On the basis of the reasoning, I did not understand that the Social Democrats are keen to meet the needs of the labour market, but they focus on the fact that everyone should have higher education, even though that is not what companies are asking for.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-234	Mr President, I would like to I think that Fredrik puts words in our mouths as we have never said, i.e. that we only invest in higher education. It's not like that. It is this government that is now creating a lot of new training places both at the university of applied sciences and in higher education. During the time of the alliance government, however, we saw a decline. It preferred to invest in tax cuts rather than in training places. We do exactly the opposite, and we think it is very important. Furthermore, we have set up a high school inquiry which has now left its report, which also raises the question of how we should change so that young people want to go to professional programmes and not automatically dare to seek vocational training because they perceive it as a closed road. This government has done exactly what is being asked for. It was during the time of the alliance government that the match was at its worst. Today, 120,000 more people work compared to just a few years ago. So, of course, more people are getting jobs today than in the time of the alliance government.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-237	Mr President, I would like to There are certainly many of us here who have a personal relationship with Komvux, either through their own experiences or there are people in our close surroundings who have participated in the teaching or perhaps been teachers there. Komvux was established as early as 1968, so it has a long and solid tradition. It was set up to provide education to those adults who lacked knowledge corresponding to comprehensive school or upper secondary school. Since then, tens of thousands of people have taken the opportunity to complete their comprehensive school degree or upper secondary school degree and then enter the labour market directly or perhaps continue into higher education. A better effort cannot be made by a state than to invest in knowledge and education for all who live in the country. Komvux is also many times the key that opens the door for those who want to change careers and try something new. I studied my math-no skills at Komvux in Bromölla and then applied to the teacher education at Kristianstad University. It was amazing in many ways. This was particularly true of the meeting with everyone else who has chosen to start reading – students of different ages from 20 to 40 years with completely different experiences in their luggage and completely different end goals, but with a common desire for upper secondary school skills to move forward in life. Studying as an adult and having the opportunity to change careers is an investment in a person's life that is absolutely invaluable. Mr President, I would like to I have met people who, with great conviction, have claimed that they cannot, that they are too old or that they do not want to get an education. I can say that in most cases it was due to the fear that they were so afraid to fail and to confirm that they are not good enough. It can be young people where the time in comprehensive school and upper secondary school has been lined by various concerns both in school and outside. We know that young people are affected differently by puberty, and it can be difficult to come back after a time of personal chaos. For many of them, Komvux is a turning point in their lives, a second chance, and it gives them the opportunity to move on to fulfilling their dreams of further reading, gaining professional competence and entering the labour market. Not giving them this chance can ultimately lead to long-term unemployment and personal suffering while society needs labour. It is therefore incredibly important that access to adult education is strengthened. The government wants to give everyone the right to obtain basic access to the university. This does not mean that everyone has to go to college, as it sometimes sounds from the opposition. This means nothing but that everyone has an opportunity, that everyone has the right to enter basic university qualifications, which today is often a basic requirement in many sectors to get a job at all. If the individual then wants to read on, it is up to each one, but the door is open! It's not closed. An increased right to competent education in Komvux is therefore necessary in order to better meet the needs of society and the individual. An adult who is qualified to take part in an upper secondary education programme but has not been able to reach basic qualifications for upper secondary education started at first level should be entitled to take part in an upper secondary education programme in order to obtain qualifications. Such a right would also mean more equal access to adult education throughout the country. One example of a group with less access to Komvux at upper secondary level is those who have completed education within upper secondary school, for example on a higher education programme, but who are in need of additional courses to obtain eligibility for education within the university or university of applied sciences. These people are not currently a priority in the selection of Komvux at upper secondary level and in some municipalities it is therefore not certain that they will be admitted to such an education, even though they need the training in order to qualify for post-secondary studies. In individual municipalities, the door to Komvux seems to be completely closed to those who already have completed upper secondary education. Not having a high school degree makes it difficult to get a job, it also makes it harder to get into educations. That's what we want to change. Studying in Komvux can lead to a great deal, even to the Ministry of Finance. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-249	I would like to welcome the ministers. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Questions are answered by Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog and Minister Anna Ekström. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-250	Mr President, I would like to The crisis in the Swedish housing market is taking place, spilling over into virtually all other areas of society, inhibiting all other parts of Sweden and affecting more and more people. That is precisely why, Mr President, it is twice as remarkable that, despite the worst crisis in 50 years on the Swedish housing market, there has been no Swedish government since the 1970s that has made so few proposals for more housing in Sweden as the current one. This particularly affects those parts of Sweden that need to keep their inhabitants and above all have more inhabitants, i.e. the Swedish sparsely populated area. The rural areas – I live there myself – can only compete with the big cities through attractive housing, not through offering.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-253	Mr President, I would like to The lack of housing is a problem all over Sweden, there is a political consensus on this, which is simply because it is so very clear. We lack housing both in large cities and in medium-sized cities as well as in smaller towns. A reform that has not worked for rural areas is the one called LIS. It concerns how to work with beach protection in rural areas. The reform has not come to an end as planned. That is why the government intends to make a proper review of it to see if we can find a reform that will lead to the aim that was intended, that is, active rural areas with housing construction throughout the country. It is a priority and a reform that the government will tackle thoroughly.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-255	Mr President, I would like to LIS applies only to certain parts of Sweden. The coastal stretches concerned are only in Norrland. The entire coast from Norway to Forsmark in Uppland is not covered by LIS. There are other parts of the beach shelter that need to be changed. If you believe that the whole of Sweden will be able to grow and develop, you have to take a holistic approach to the entire beach protection legislation and fundamentally change it. Is the government going to do that?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-256	Mr President, I would like to The rules for beach protection that apply today were adopted by the former bourgeois government in 2009. At the same time as new rules were introduced, the County Administrative Board was asked to reconsider all decisions on extended beach protection. This is a reform that is still being implemented. Among other things, we have a very large number of appeals relating to this. Before the reform is completed, it is too early to conclude that we are going to review the system again.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-259	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to Swedish migration policy during this term of office, I have come to think of the classic children's song Prästen's little crow. It starts with symbolism that makes migratory pressure swing here. Then the government changes course and turns to border controls and other regulations that cause migration pressures to swing there. Although the Minister for the Interior has made it clear that last year's migration chaos must not be repeated, we have also been told by the Minister for the Interior that it is time to scale down our border controls. Such a statement in itself represents a symbolic value which means that our current border controls, which are far from adequate today, can be perceived as a factor of attraction for migratory flows. The risk of us starting to scale down our border controls is that migratory pressure will again swing here, and just as in the case of children, less control over our borders will lead to Sweden finally slipping into the ditch. Will the government really begin to scale down our border controls?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-262	Mr President, I would like to In accordance with the decisions of the European Commission and the EU Council of Ministers which form the basis of the Swedish ID checks, we are obliged to adapt them to the existing situation. When we introduced the border controls, we had an influx of asylum of 10 000 a week. Now we have an influx of asylum of 400 – 500 a week. We should have no more border controls than are necessary to maintain order and security. We shall have effective controls that will never bring us back to the situation we had before. But they must be proportionate to the need. Otherwise, there is a risk that we will not have border controls at all, that Europe will say no to having border controls. Then we'll be in a completely different situation.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-263	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I need to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats believe that today's border controls are far from adequate. I hope that the government will not now be affected by populist tendencies from the Green Party which could potentially jeopardise the situation, so that last autumn's situation will reappear, something that none of us says they want. Support for strengthened border controls remains on the Swedish democrats' side. We will, of course, follow the actions of the government in this matter closely.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-264	Mr President, I would like to Much can be said about the Council of Ministers and the European Commission, but I do not think they are purely environmental-partisan bases. It is simply the need to determine the scope of controls. It is therefore important that we make them effective and effective and that they do not unnecessarily cross commuters who commute across the Sound every day.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-265	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Gustav Fridolin a question about the important committee initiative that we took in Parliament last week. It is a question of the fact that the law we have on labour migration is quite different from what was intended. We need labour in Sweden. We need more people working. We also need more people working longer. The Labour Immigration Act introduced in 2008 enables people to come here and start a new life. Now, however, it is decided to expel people who have lived in the country for a long time, who work and who have the family here with children who go to school. My question is now to Gustav Fridolin: how can the Minister contribute to the swift implementation of the government's decision on the committee initiative?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-268	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Zander very much for the question. As she describes, we have broad support for the rules on labour immigration, which were adopted in 2008. But we can now also see where the rules are flawed. It is on the basis of those rules that the decisions she describes are made. People in Sweden who work and contribute do not get the opportunity to continue doing so. It is, of course, a strange setback, and that is why Parliament has acted through a committee initiative. When Parliament takes such a committee initiative in political breadth and it comes to the government, it goes without saying that the government should also act quickly.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-269	Mr President, I would like to Then I'll take the Minister's words as a reality. We meet people on a daily basis – parents who work and children who go to school – who are terribly distressed by what is now happening. This must not happen in a country like Sweden, and I therefore wish that the Minister could say that we will have new legislation on our table at the beginning of next year.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-270	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I cannot promise that, partly because it is not my area of preparation in the government and partly because we all know that, although we act urgently, this is complicated legislation. When this law was adopted in 2008, none of us thought it would have these consequences, so obviously it is legislation that is complex and can have consequences that are not foreseen. Then you have to prepare it properly, and it is the government's responsibility to do so. We will act as quickly as possible, because we see the same problems as Solveig Zander describes.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-272	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Right now there is shock heat in the Arctic. It is 20 degrees warmer than normal at this time, and the ice melts faster than ever. In southern Madagascar, hundreds of thousands of people are at risk of starvation due to the prolonged drought. These are just two concrete and rather painful examples of climate change occurring here and now. The Marrakesh Climate Conference recently concluded, and you, Karolina Skog, were there and represented Sweden. One of the important issues was how the world's countries should be able to tighten up their national climate contributions, the INDC, because it has been found that they are not enough, as it now stands. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister will work towards tightening up and improving the EU's contribution to climate change. Will the Minister also take the initiative for Sweden to have its own climate contribution to the next climate summit?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-275	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for bringing up the reality in which we live together, where we see climate change happening. The Arctic is a kind of temperature meter, where things are visible early on that we must follow and learn from. We get the opportunity to do this in a report on the Arctic presented tomorrow by the Stockholm Environment Institute – a report whose origin the Swedish Government is behind. It will be incredibly important. After Marrakech, where everything did not come into place as clearly as we had hoped, it is important that every country and we in Europe jointly look at what we do at home and what we do together and become more concrete in the promises made by each country in the form of INDC. It will be part of the climate law that the government intends to present.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-277	Mr President, I would like to It is very important that each country has an ambitious climate contribution, but at the last climate conference we in Sweden did not have our own climate contribution. We leaned entirely towards the European Union. We were but an echo from Brussels. I do not think that is enough if we are to be a forerunner in this area. So my question was whether we will have our own climate contribution to the next climate summit and whether the Minister will take the initiative to improve the EU's current climate contribution, because that is not enough.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-279	Mr President, I would like to A key focus of the government in our climate policy is to operate on the European stage and strengthen the common tools we have in Europe and also the common commitments. That's the most important thing. We will also act at home. How we will act and what we will do in Sweden we will present in the climate bill that we have announced in ours.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-281	Mr President, I would like to It is now known that the Minister for Home Affairs has confidence in the Chief of State Police. But the police crisis is a fact: every day three police officers end up in their profession, and we have had fewer police officers and fewer police officers in external service in recent years. The Minister for Home Affairs usually refers our questions to the Police Authority, but I believe, Mr President, that the government and ultimately the Minister for Home Affairs can influence the conditions of the police through the economy. We have now learned that the government's temporary funds this year are not included in the coming years and that major savings are waiting for R egion Syd and Malmö, among other things. In view of the serious situation in Malmö and the general lack of results within the Police Authority, my question will be to Minister for Home Affairs Anders Ygeman : When will the initiative announced by the government, and how could a police effort suddenly become savings?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-283	Mr President, I would like to The first question to Roger Haddad must read as follows: Do you, Roger Haddad, not consider the police officers who work at the Security Service to be police officers? The figures you mention are based on the fact that two thirds of those who quit the police either start working at the Swedish Security Service or retire. Previously, the National Security Service was part of the Police Authority. Now they are two different authorities, and the police who work at the Security Service count Roger Haddad as police officers who have quit. We have already delivered more money to the police, and we have increased the number of civilian employees. We're going to have faster prosecution, and we're going to have tougher sanctions.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-285	Mr President, I would like to These are two different budget lines and two different authorities. Not all police have gone to the Security Service, but many have gone to the private or other authorities. But I have received information from managers and also from economists that the suit for Swedish police is being pulled down. The allocation only to R egion Syd will be reduced by 0.48 proc ent next year. In addition, R egion Syd will save SEK 300 million. Where did the government and the Social Democrats' efforts at the police go?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-287	Mr President, I would like to I think Roger Haddad will have to search his information from more reliable sources. Even those who work at the Secret Service are police officers. In the next few years, the police's budget will be increased by over SEK 2 billion and the Swedish Security Service's budget by over SEK 650 million.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-289	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask the Minister for Education a question. This week we have had to read about schools in Malmö where there are, to say the least, major problems. There have been reports of six-year-olds being abused and sexually harassed and threatened, of gymnastics classes being cancelled both as punishment and because children's safety cannot be guaranteed and of children fleeing school because of these problems and others who are forced to remain in a lack of other solutions. The situation described is terrible, and if it is true, a change must take place immediately. The school's core values are crystal clear: No one should be subjected to discrimination on grounds of sex, ethnicity, religion or other belief, or other abusive treatment. My question to the Minister will then be how he views the current situation in Malmö schools and what is the reason why it looks like this.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-292	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you very much, Larry Söder, for lifting this. These reports, which have come mainly through the media, concern terrible events. No matter how much of this has happened in exactly the way described, this sort of thing should not happen in school, and I am glad that the principal has been so clear that investigations will be made and the situation in the schools concerned will be addressed. When it comes to the question of what we do to create security – so that the security that the vast majority of students feel in Swedish schools should include everyone – there are two things: adults who see and adults who have tools. For adults to see, more people have to work in school. That is why we have turned the cuts – in the previous years almost 10,000 employees were cut away from Swedish schools – into investments. In the last two years, 13,000 new employees have been hired at school. There will be more adults who can see. Then you have to have tools too. Therefore, we are now building up large, continuous, long-term, national school development programmes. The first big thing is that teachers should learn from each other about how to work with security and peace of mind.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-295	Mr President, I would like to If a school management loses control of the development of a school, we must have inspections. Problems must be identified and the school must be required to address them. It can't wait. I think we are quite in agreement on that. But the children who go to school lose valuable time if we stand and discuss whose fault it is. We must have action now, as soon as possible. My second question is therefore still what measures the Minister intends to take.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-297	Mr President, I would like to I know that action is now being taken against what has been described here. It's just like you, Larry Söder, say: All students should have a safe school, and when this kind of task comes, the principal must make sure to put in action. I've made sure they do. We also agree that, as you say, there is a need for a strong and clear school inspection. It is also possible to make notifications so that nothing like this can occur in a large or small principal without it being revealed. Those tools are in the state today, and they are very important.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-300	Mr President, I would like to I have a question about the most important thing we have, the children. It concerns the part of the education system that in its approach and ability to see the whole child is very far ahead, namely preschool. I'd like to ask that question to the Preschool Minister. We know that children in preschool succeed better in school, especially children who have parents with short education and even tough growing-up conditions. The compensatory task is at its most obvious when it comes to preschool. It is therefore important that children's groups are not too large and that the staff have an education that enables them to meet children with different challenges. It is positive that we have a new benchmark for the size of children's groups, but we have been able to see that it is not always on the basis of the benchmarks that we can see today. What is the pre-school minister's view on this, and what does the government intend to do to ensure that all children have good quality preschools?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-303	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for the question! We know that children who get a good preschool have educational effects of this with way up in the years. The OECD has been able to show that the PISA tests, as children do as 15-year-olds, can see the effects of a good educational preschool. Then it is clear that investments in preschools that make it possible for pedagogy to be given space are very important. The size of the groups of children is therefore important. When children's groups grow and become too large, education is also at risk for children and their activities. During the previous government, we had more large groups of children. There were more children who went into really large groups of children. Under the previous government, the benchmark was also removed. Therefore, one of our first steps was to make sure to order a clear, research-based benchmark for the size of children's groups from the Swedish National Agency for Education and at the same time ensure that funds are provided to the principals in order to reduce the size of children's groups. Now we can see that this is actually having an effect – not that everyone immediately ends up in smaller children's groups while we have more children, but we see that we have broken the trend of growing children's groups and actually had slightly smaller children's groups.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-306	Mr President, I would like to In order for the children to get a really good business and education in preschool, it is necessary, as I said earlier, staff with competence and knowledge of children's learning and development.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-308	Mr President, I would like to One of the reasons for this is the regrettably deteriorating conditions for vocational education and training in upper secondary school. Those who are not preschool teachers but work in preschool as child care workers – they have a relevant competence together with pre-school teachers – have become fewer. It has become more difficult for the principals to find them when they are going to recruit for preschool and be able to reduce children's groups. That is why it is so important to do the work that my colleague Anna Ekström is doing to ensure the attractiveness of professional programmes, so that we get more people who choose the fantastic education as a child nurse and then one day maybe go on to become a preschool teacher.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-310	Mr President, I would like to I intend to put my question to the Minister for the Environment, Karolina Skog. About a third of Sweden's emissions come from transport. In order to reduce emissions in the transport sector, we need to reduce the number of transports and ensure that the transport that is carried out is more sustainable. I am not saying, therefore, that we do not need to transport; on the other hand, we need to take responsibility for the climate impact of transport. It is the responsibility of every individual, but also of politics, to do this. In my hometown Jönköping, on average, about 150 000 car trips are made every day. There has been an increase of 15% in ten years. My question is: what is the government doing to reduce urban traffic?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-313	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Hult, for an urgent question! The transport sector is, I would say, the area of environmental policy where the most remains to be done. Several questions have been put off on the future, and it is time for us to get to grips with them. The increase in the share of transport, also by lorries, is a trend that we have to deal with. We must have efficient transport in order to make the transition to fossil freedom on which there is broad political consensus. A key issue is that the growth of transport can take place on the go – cycle and public transport. That is why we have a clear priority for this in the infrastructure bill and also targeted funding for public transport investments through the urban environment agreements, which are hugely popular in our municipalities and county councils, which are seeking these grants to a greater extent than we can grant.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As you yourself say, there are more people who are looking for us than we can give grants to. Jönköping is one of the cities that has not received the urban environment agreement to the extent that one might need. We have a huge challenge here. How do we do this? What is the government doing to reduce motorism in Sweden's cities?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-316	Mr President, I would like to The environmental target committee, which looks at these issues, points to several important points. Part of it is to strengthen the tools. There we work with several parts. It also looks at what we call low-cost urban planning, that we plan our cities in a way where we exploit proximity and make it possible, safe and safe to walk and cycle and to use public transport much more than today. There the government is active in a variety of ways.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-317	Mr President, I would like to I have a general policy question for the Minister for Education. Today is November 24, 2016. It is exactly a year since Stefan Löfven and Åsa Romson presented measures to, as they put it, put Sweden's asylum rules at the EU's lowest level and create a breathing space in the reception of refugees. The background was that Sweden lacked a sustainable migration policy. Although the Prime Minister had said only a few weeks earlier that Europe would not build any walls, the reality finally caught up with him too. At the same time, the refugee crisis is not over. In 2016, nearly 30 000 people are expected to apply for asylum in Sweden. That is about the annual ten-year average before the crisis. The temporary legislation will expire in 2018. We'll be there soon. This leads to the question of what a longer-term migration policy looks like. My question is therefore: Does the government believe that Sweden should, even after the temporary law expires, have temporary residence permits as a general rule?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-321	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Johan Forssell says: The refugee crisis is not over. More people than ever before are forced to flee war and oppression in the world. The war in Syria is in its sixth year. We see disgusting scenes when people are affected in, among other things, Aleppo. In this situation, the EU needs to stand up. The EU must ensure that people on the run have the possibility of a safe haven. We know that if the European Union had taken responsibility together, we would never really have needed a refugee crisis in the European Union. Sweden had already received and given refuge before the dramatic autumn to such a large number of Syrians that if all EU countries had taken the same responsibility, we would have been able to help all those who fled the war in Syria. For the EU, it has not been a refugee crisis but a crisis of responsibility. That is why we are now working to ensure that the EU has a common asylum framework, and it is on that basis that future Swedish legislation will be built.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-324	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. At the same time, we should remember that the EU is its Member States. If the Swedish Government not only wants to follow what the EU decides but also be able to influence it, it is very important that Sweden pursues a clear line and has a clear view. I believe that many people expect the Swedish Government not only to regularly refer the most difficult questions to others but to present its own idea of how it wants it to be. So, the Minister for Education, is it desirable that Sweden should continue to have a temporary residence permit?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-326	Mr President, I would like to Now Johan Forssell asked me not what the government is pushing for a line in the EU but what legislation Sweden should have once we have achieved common legislation in the EU. Let us start with the first and get to that legislation! There we are pursuing a shared responsibility, a basic fair minimum, which will give the displaced people a refuge in our Member States, and the possibility of permanent residence permits.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-328	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. Last week, the Minister of the Interior and his Norwegian colleague took part in the historic – one might say – interconnection of our countries' respective radio communications systems, Rakel and Nødnett. As I understand it, this is the first time two countries have connected their national radio communications systems in this way. The Swedish-Norwegian border is 162 km long. Improved opportunities for cooperation in the event of accidents and major crises are therefore important in order to increase the security of people living and moving in border areas. I myself come from Jämtland County, where there has been a tradition of a close and natural exchange between our countries for a long time. They assist each other in accidents. For example, Norwegian rescue flights are used in accidents on the Swedish side of the border. My question is: what further steps does the Minister of the Interior see to increase security and make the most of, for example, available police resources?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-332	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is true that Sweden and Norway are the first two countries in the world to have linked the communication systems for blue light. It provides increased opportunities for police, rescue services and ambulances. The next step in this is, of course, the Prüm Council decision in the EU. It is about the possibility for these two countries, and other neighbouring countries, to co- patrol. Policemen from the two countries can patrol together. The next step after that will be the Atlas Council decision. It is about the possibility for national intervention forces in each country to support each other in the event of terrorist attacks. And the next step after that will be the opportunity to independently give each other backup across the border. Parliament's decision is likely to be necessary for us to be able to go there. However, when we are at the end of this process, both countries will be able to have significantly better conditions for giving the citizens order, security and security.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-333	Mr President, I would like to This is very welcome news. In the event of an accident or other emergency, I do not think the most important thing is whether it is police or politi, in this case, but that you actually get quick and good help. When does the Home Secretary think we can get this borderless police cooperation? When can we have it in place?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-334	Mr President, I would like to I think we will be able to present the legislation this spring. We will then be able to take the first important steps and provide the opportunity for Nordic joint patrols. It is important at the Norwegian-Swedish border, and it is important not least at the Swedish-Finnish border – in Haparanda and those parts. It may also have a good impact on Denmark in the south. In this way, we make the best use of the resources of each country and can increase the security and security of citizens.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-335	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. A few days ago, the Gymnasie inquiry submitted its report to the government. One of the directives was to investigate a compulsory secondary school. The investigation chose not to follow this line. I also understood that Anna Ekström's predecessors in the office backed up on the issue of compulsory secondary school.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-338	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The advantages of having started and also completed a secondary school programme are undeniable. In the labour market we see a very clear difference between those who have attended upper secondary school and those who have not. The differences in job prospects are very great. Differences in pay are great. The differences in progress in higher studies are quite obvious. But there are also differences related to health and quality of life. A completed high school education is actually the best gift we can give to a young person on his way into society. The question of how to get there is a completely different one. The Social Democrats and I want high school to be compulsory. The proposal submitted by the investigation is about achieving something similar with other means. We are now going to examine the proposals made by the Gymnasie investigation. We will, of course, come back to the issue.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-340	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. About 10 percent of the pupils in upper secondary school are programme changers. This often leads to an extension of upper secondary school education to four or sometimes five years. This entails considerable costs both for the individual and for society. What does the Minister want to do to reduce this, from 10% to preferably 0?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-341	Mr President, I would like to There are obvious drawbacks also to the many changes in the program. We can easily see the costs involved for education providers, for society. However, the high costs are borne by students themselves in the form of lost wages and deferred entry into the labour market and further studies. Of course, the first thing you think about and look forward to is a well-developed study and career guidance. On this issue too, the government will come back.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-344	Mr President, I would like to The school grades involve a lot of people. Since it actually means exercising authority, it is also important that it becomes right and that it is perceived as justice. This week I have a praoelev named Viktoria Eklöf. We came to talk about this with fair grades. She was then given the task of examining the matter a little extra. She found that the Swedish National Agency for Education had presented a report in which most teachers were in favour of the new grading system but found the knowledge requirements unclear. There are problems with so-called threshold effects. This means that students cannot get a higher grade, because they have not met some basic requirements in terms of knowledge. In connection with the presentation of the report, the Minister for Education said: The Government is satisfied with the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal and hopes to move forward with it quickly. But it was in May this year. Since then, nothing has happened. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Education: When has the government done its homework, and when will the government commission the National Agency for Education to work out a fair system?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-347	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for your and your nice praoelevs question! Already when the Swedish National Agency for Education presented its proposal, the Swedish National Agency for Education itself made some efforts to make the rating that was made before the summer vacation more legally secure and more in accordance with the intentions of the grade reform. It was also noted that the basic problems have not really been in the rating system as such, but in how it was introduced. It was about very quickly pushing through a whole new grading system that all teachers would be fully trained in and apply in exactly the same way without having had to discuss it through at school and even less between schools. It does not guarantee that you get a legal and fair assessment of the grades. You should have taken longer when implementing. Now we stand where we stand. The National Agency for Education has made a number of wise suggestions. We prepare them to see how we can move on with them. The most important thing was the decisions taken already in May.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-349	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Sure, the National Agency for Education has done what they can to clarify these issues. At the same time, however, they are asking the government to help us move forward so that we have a more complete system. It's been blamed on past cases. The directives were given a year before the system was implemented. In fact, the Alliance government also sent 250 million for this.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-352	Mr President, I would like to The message I can give is that we are looking at a number of different measures, including the proposals submitted by the National Agency for Education. We are also preparing the proposals contained in the study on national tests. It is about how the national tests should be able to gain a stronger position in the grade. Our goal is of course that we should have fair grades for all students and that it should not matter to grades which school you go to. But then there are a number of quite basic mechanisms that one must dare to look at and also dare to question.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-354	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. It concerns the birth of the solar treasure and soon almost departed. With regard to new energy sources, it is extremely important to ensure that the conditions are created so that we can initially make quite expensive investments. If you want a transition to a renewable society that is sustainable over time, it is important not to tax renewable sources hard at first. Just over a year ago, the government introduced a solar tax. We all marveled at that message. We thought: What was the attitude of government now? It blamed the EU and said that the EU is demanding this tax. The European Commission quickly went out and said: No, we have not actually done that, and we are not doing it either. On the contrary, there is every possibility of exempting such taxes. Now there has been good news that from next year it will be removed or at least reduced to 0.02 or whatever it was. We welcome that. What was the government thinking?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-358	Mr President, I would like to The government has now presented a way forward aimed at removing the tax on self-produced electricity. The proposal provides a two-step solution to provide the lowest possible tax to the lowest possible risk. We have set a common and broad target of 100% renewable electricity production by 2040, and solar electricity is an important piece of the puzzle in this. Our ambition is to remove the tax completely, and therefore we will go forward with a notification to the European Commission that we intend to reduce the tax by 98% as of 1 June 2017 in order to enable rapid investment.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-360	Mr President, I would like to I did not get an answer to my question how the government thought when this was introduced. One could be a little ironic and say that perhaps it was a brilliant idea to introduce a tax that one year later is removed. The government has not provided a basic basis for the introduction of this, but it was based on the fact that there were probably such requirements. Then you realized there wasn't. It is very worrying when we put such taxes on such important things as renewable energy sources. What was the government thinking when the tax was introduced?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-363	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the EU acquis today is not adapted to allow individual countries to pursue an offensive climate policy. We are working hard to try to change those rules at European level. The risk if a government takes precedence over and outside the EU regulatory framework is that it is the individual producers who will be liable for repayment. We will never take that risk, and that is why we walk carefully and work as aggressively as possible. We are making two-step changes, and that is certain: No company in Sweden will risk being liable for repayment.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-365	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ygeman. Today there was an email from a teacher at Olisskolan in Växjö. He writes that today about 100 police students are examined in Växjö. They have completed their trainee training and are clear police today. The absurdity is that five of them will not be able to continue as police officers. They have been placed very far away, and cannot take those places for social and economic reasons. This applies, for example, to three students, one of whom has been placed in Gothenburg, one in Malmö and one in Växjö. They want to trade with each other, but so they can't. The agency refuses to allow these people to trade with each other. Instead, the seats become vacant. This is also socioeconomically bad, for every place at the Police College costs over half a million.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-369	Mr President, I would like to What Ellen Juntti expresses is the strict merit assessment in the employment of police officers who graduate from college that was introduced during the time that the Moderates led the government. I agree that, in this case, there are unreasonable consequences, and I believe and believe, as the Commissioner for National Police has also expressed, that we need to have a much more flexible approach when we put policemen in the country. It is not least important in sparsely populated areas that we manage to recruit police officers from sparsely populated areas and that those police officers can also work reasonably close to their places of residence. Otherwise, it will be an aggravating factor when we recruit police officers in the future. So the answer to Junttis Ellen's question is: No, it is not reasonable, and it is about to change.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-372	Mr President, I would like to It's good if there's any change. Ygeman cannot keep blaming the previous government for so long, because now this government has been in office for two years. It is good that changes are coming, because the teacher continues in the email that he heard yesterday that there are 15 ready-made police officers who have turned down their placements because of this, which is really wasteful. My question is: When are these changes coming?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-375	Mr President, I would like to We do not have ministerial government in Sweden, but I have obtained that the chief police officer sees the same problem as Ellen Juntti sees and that there is therefore a change on the way. I do not know exactly what the timetable for this change is at present.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-377	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog and concerns what measures the government intends to take in terms of reducing plastics in the sea and reducing microplastics in products that do not need these microplastics. The reason is that it paints for Christmas. Soon we put packages under the tree, and I imagine that some of the packages will certainly contain beauty products, creams and other things. I know and the Nature Conservation Association has also presented a report that many products in our bathroom cabinets contain microplastics. We also know from research that many of these plastics end up in our seas, including the Baltic Sea, causing very serious problems for organisms. They also carry environmental toxins. I know there's work going on at the Ministry of the Environment and also at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. So my question is: what measures can we expect?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-380	Mr President, I would like to The issue of plastic in the sea and specifically microplastics is acute. It has had to go on for a long time and is a real threat to fishing, among other things. In Marrakech, I had the opportunity to join an initiative that came from France. We have formed an alliance to reduce plastic in the oceans internationally. In Sweden, we will also do a number of things on our own. We are looking at a reduction in the use of plastic bags, and we are also going to completely phase out the use of microplastics in cosmetic products. The industry has largely already phased this out; that is not necessary. It should be clear that unnecessary and dangerous products should not be used in Sweden, and therefore we have an investigation in progress and intend to proceed with a national ban. I think that can set a standard, and I believe that more countries will follow. There is also a broader investigation at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-384	Mr President, I would like to That sounds very pleasing. As a social democrat, I am a strong advocate of international work combined with national work, where we can take responsibility both at home and internationally. So that sounds very pleasing. I also think that a ban on microplastics in cosmetic products is very good. My question could be: how do you see that this could be combined with the free movement of goods in the EU, for example?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-386	Mr President, I would like to When working on this type of major change issues, it is important to find a balance between what we are going to do nationally, what we are going to do in the EU and what is global and make sure that it is connected and do so in collaboration with other countries. That is what we intend to do in this newly formed coalition. We have looked specifically at the issue of microplastics in cosmetic products. As we have, in principle, phased it out, we see that it is an opportunity to go forward with a national ban, but I believe, as I said, that European legislation, as in so many other cases, will follow.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-389	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Gustav Fridolin. A school in my municipality of residence, Haninge, where the minister himself has been visiting, shows this year a result in grade 6 where only 19.2 percent of the students achieved the least pass on all subjects. If new immigrants and unknown backgrounds are removed, the figure is still appallingly low: 25.6%. It is a school that for many years has also had deficits and poor results. It is reported that independent schools succeed better in PISA results than municipal schools. Is it the most serious that Minister Fridolin, together with the government, will push through profit caps for fully functioning schools and allow schools like the Brandbergsskolan in Haninge to continue without any quality requirements?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-391	Mr President, I would like to We work hard to make all schools good schools. That is the whole starting point for government policy. We do not allow any schools to give our children anything but the best quality of education. To do that, we have built up a whole new government program, Collaboration for the best school, where the state enters into and enters into agreements with principals on school development at individual schools. We fund efforts to ensure that more experienced teachers go to the schools that have the toughest conditions. Through the School Commission, we take responsibility for the difficult issues to break school segregation so that we do not get more segregated and divided schools. It's taking responsibility for all schools being good schools. Part of this is that we are getting to grips with avoiding companies in the school market that are there mainly to make money and not to run the best possible school. Such a regulatory framework would be helpful.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-395	Mr President, I would like to The government seems to want to put a wet blanket over entrepreneurs in the welfare sector with the Green Paper. In addition, many female entrepreneurs are the main players, and they do well. You're talking about securing quality, but not all schools are good today. Why do you not want to discuss the quality of schools regardless of the principal rather than destroy what is already viable?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-397	Mr President, I would like to I'm just discussing quality. We'll hire more teachers at school. We have stopped the cuts and made sure that, in the midst of a difficult teacher crisis, the educational density of Swedish schools is increased. We make sure to raise teachers' salaries. There is considerable investment in more teachers getting higher salaries. More people are now also applying for teacher training, and more teachers are staying and developing in the profession. The number of applications to become a special teacher within the Teacher Lift has increased tenfold in one year. Then I discuss how we create quality by ensuring that those who run free school also let the money come out into the business.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-399	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has the highest employment rate in the EU. In two years, 120 000 new jobs have been created and unemployment has fallen by about 1 percentage point. Nevertheless, over 100,000 job vacancies are waiting to be filled. Investment is increasing in both the private and public sectors, leading to an increasing number of employers looking for labour but with varying success. The availability of properly trained labour is crucial for Swedish growth, for jobs and for our well-being. In order to be able to give more people the opportunity to take part in education, the government is now investing in a new knowledge transfer for Sweden. My question to Minister Anna Ekström is: Can the Minister describe how the Knowledgelift can help us get a better match in the labour market?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-402	Mr President, I would like to Pia Nilsson is absolutely right that the Swedish labour market suffers from many imbalances. An imbalance has been described by Pia Nilsson herself, namely between the education that people have and the education that is needed for people to get jobs. While there is falling unemployment for those who have completed upper secondary education, there are also major problems for those with skills gaps. Opportunities for companies to expand fail due to a lack of qualified staff. Here many different things need to be done at the same time. It is about strengthening vocational programmes in upper secondary school. The vocational programmes are job machines. It is about ensuring that adult education is there for those who need a fuller life, not least for the many new arrivals. It's about investing in folk high schools and polytechnics – and much more.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-405	Mr President, I would like to One figure says that one in five jobs in business cannot be filled due to a shortage of skilled labour. It's alarming. The government takes its responsibility – great. How can the government work to ensure that the social partners can take greater responsibility for filling the nearly 100 000 job vacancies announced?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-407	Mr President, I would like to An important measure that is under way is regional professional adult. It is a way of reviving and re-launching adult education. For many years too little resources have been spent on adult education, and more needs to be added. The government is proposing a very large initiative, including the development of shorter and more vocational and labour market-oriented training pathways for those who most need them.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-410	Mr President, I would like to Swedish police are in crisis. Since before, we know that the results of the investigation are the worst in 16 years. The day before yesterday we were able to read in Dagens Nyheter that this trend persists, and the results continue to decline in all seven police regions. The worst is the situation in the southern region and in Stockholm, but also Region Bergslagen and Region Mitt are in trouble in the new measurement. I therefore put my question to Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. Does he think that the police are in crisis, and what does he intend to do about the falling investigation results?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-413	Mr President, I would like to I share Pål Jonson's view that the police are in a serious situation. The falling investigation results from the time the Moderates ruled the country continue downwards. They were the background to the unanimous decision of a new police organisation between all parties, police unions and police management. Now it is also a matter for the organization to deliver. That is why, in addition to what we have told you so far, we have also given over SEK 2 billion to the police. This has given the police the opportunity to bring in over 600 civilian staff to receive a substantial staff contribution in the short term. The police now have more employees than ever before. I have been very clear that this reorganisation must lead to a reversal of the findings of the investigation, and that must happen quickly. We cannot simply accept that the decline that has existed for many years continues.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-416	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his answer. There are no differences of opinion as to whether the reform itself was correct, but there are differences of opinion as to whether it has been properly implemented or not. The head of the police has said that the results will be reversed before the New Year. I would just like to remind you that it is 38 days until then. Does the Minister of the Interior think it's reasonable to get better results of investigations to New Year's or not?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-418	Mr President, I would like to I think that is a reasonable demand. I have visited the Committee on Justice and I have met all the parties in Parliament and discussed the situation in the police. I can say the same thing in this House as I said then. I am open to discussing with all parties who have voted in favour of the reform if there are things that have gone wrong that need to be changed. The goal is not to have the best police reform in the world, but to have the best police and safer citizens in the world. I welcome such a discussion in the Moderates.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-419	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Yesterday I was in contact with a man from Nossebro. For four generations he and his family have owned a home and a watercourse, which runs both a mill and a frame saw. They have ended up in a difficult situation because of the County Administrative Board's decision that a new permit is required. Unfortunately, he is not alone in such situations. A consistent removal of all unauthorised dams would have unreasonable consequences. Prima arable land would be put under water, great cultural values would be devastated and several hundred-year-old dams would be threatened by demolition. Old utility environments would be threatened. What will the government do to deal with the threats to the various values I have mentioned here?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-423	Mr President, I would like to The background to the situation described by Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell concerns the introduction of a European directive. The government has recently dealt with the issue and has sent back an instruction on how these matters should be dealt with via the water delegations under all the county boards of the country. It is clear from that instruction that each decision must be subject to an impact assessment. It shall not be blind implementation, but shall be subject to an impact assessment in each case, taking into account, inter alia, the individual interest involved.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-424	Mr President, I would like to There is a funding principle that relates to the relationship between central government and municipalities. This means that the state will provide money when new tasks are added to the municipalities. Something similar does not exist between the state and the individual. What will the government do, pending the implementation of the new instructions, to support those owners who have already suffered legal costs?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-426	Mr President, I would like to As I said, this is about the introduction of the European directive covering the whole, both implementation and funding. This is happening today in the form of the Water Framework Directive. It's a very big job on all our county boards. We have just made a decision in principle and have given instructions to the water delegations on how to act. They will now develop an action plan and present it before the New Year.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-428	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ekström. Värnhemsskolan, one of Malmö's large upper secondary schools, was forced to close immediately the other week after fighting. Now 15 students are suspended, and security guards have been hired to keep unauthorized ones away from school and try to create some kind of peace and quiet. The media report daily that there is, among other things, an open drug trade linked to the school. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. The school should be a safe place characterized by studies. How does the government's main representative regarding upper secondary school see how to deal with this situation and ensure that Swedish students can be safe in the school they go to?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-431	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt whatsoever that we both agree that the Swedish school in general and the Swedish upper secondary school should be a safe place. It is important to stress that the school is not a public place. The school is the students' home. That's where the students should feel safe. School heads have a huge responsibility to ensure that security and order prevail at school. There are rules here both in school teams and in the curriculum, but there are also a variety of rules that are decided by the different principals. I think the most important thing we can do if we want to ensure a calm and safe school is to ensure that there are plenty of resources and people who know how to manage the school, who know how to handle the students and their security. It is a great pleasure for me to be safe on the foundation that the government in its budget adds a total of 10 billion to Sweden's municipalities, among other things to ensure that the school is a quiet and safe place.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-435	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The basic prerequisites for creating safe young adults in school in the long run are, of course, that it is a good school and a good school environment. But this is about young adults. It is not 12-year-olds we are talking about, but here we are talking about 18- and 19-year-olds in a high school. Is it reasonable that a different regulation applies inside a school, or should Swedish law also apply inside schools? Shouldn't assault be assault and violation be a violation even if it happens inside the school walls?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-437	Mr President, I would like to I take the questions as rhetorical. There is no human being who believes that the school should be a place for assault, as Erik Bengtzboe puts it. It is self-evident that society should ensure that order and security prevail throughout society, but especially in school. We are talking about an institution where there is partly compulsory schooling, at least for primary school, and we are talking about a place where young people should learn how to handle knowledge and education but also become responsible citizens.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-440	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Home Secretary. Last week, German police raided over 200 mosques, offices and homes associated with the Islamic movement Die wahre Religion, which has links to at least 140 IS warriors. This Salafist organization also exists in Sweden through the so-called Reading Project. In organisations that are closely linked to the Reading Project, such as Sweden's United Muslims, there are clear links between Swedish IS warriors and these networks. Although there are letters that clearly state that Swedish tax revenue should not go to this kind of intolerant business, they do so today. I do not understand how this is possible, so my question to the Minister is whether he intends to take steps to stop organisations like this and what he intends to do.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-443	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying to me and the government that tax money should not go to organisations that do not share our fundamental values. We have taken a number of different measures to make this a reality. We have appointed a special investigator to review the regulatory framework for all such grants in order to ensure that not a single krona goes to organisations that do not support the fundamental democratic values.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-445	Mr President, I would like to It sounds to the Minister like this is a new phenomenon, as if it is something that has just begun. But the fact is, this has been going on for a long time. Several writers have highlighted the problem that Swedish tax funds go to terrorism. I have done so on several written questions. A year and a half ago, I took part in an interpellation debate on it. But still nothing happens. My question to the Minister is really quite simple, because money today goes to terrorism. How can you let that happen?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-448	Mr President, I would like to No, we won't let that happen. No, we are not satisfied with the situation. Yes, we have taken a number of different measures. And yes, we have set up an investigation to ensure that every part of the public sector that makes this kind of contribution also holds our principles of democracy and human rights high.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-449	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a question to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog on endocrine disruptors. What is the government doing to ensure that the criteria for endocrine disruptors now proposed in the EU are designed in a way that is in accordance with the precautionary principle? We are exposed to a wide range of endocrine disruptors on a daily basis. They are found in the dust on the floor, in food packaging and in skin creams. According to the research available, endocrine disrupting chemicals, even in very small quantities, contribute to various hormone-related disorders. They can lead to breast cancer and prostate cancer and to babies being born with malformed genital organs. Recent studies also show a link between endocrine disruptors and, for example, adhd, diabetes and obesity – diseases that we know are increasing dramatically in society.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-452	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for raising a very important issue! The fact that we have criteria for what are endocrine disruptors, and which can form the basis for legislation and application, is extremely important. For several years and for several governments, regardless of party colours, Sweden has pushed this issue hard and clearly. We have won against the Commission in the European Court of Justice and have a clear ruling. Yet the European Commission is unable to put forward a proposal for a definition of endocrine disruptors based on science. They are simply trying to get out of it. The latest developments were that the Commission presented a revised proposal for a definition of endocrine disrupting substances that are still not linked to science and are not supported by either Sweden or other Member States. The question has now ended up in limbo.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-455	Mr President, I would like to I have noted the work of the government and also the fact that other countries have been brought along to push this line, which is incredibly important to reduce human suffering but also to save us great costs in the future. My question is: is there still support from other countries in moving forward and bringing forward a further revised proposal on how to define these substances, so that we can get certain legislation in place?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-457	Mr President, I would like to Yes, during these years we from Sweden have got several countries with us in the work. We have several allies, and the group of allies is growing. I have been in contact with a number of my fellow environmental ministers and explained to them how important this is – both in substance, because we need to have rules on endocrine disruptors, and in principle. It is extremely important that the European Commission respects REACH legislation and applies it correctly. And we have a great deal of support from some of you than half of the EU Member States.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-460	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gustav Fridolin. Since the government took office, taxes and charges of more than SEK 40 billion have been introduced. Most of these affect small and medium-sized companies in Sweden, including in my county of Jönköping. We note the systematic reduction of SMEs' ability to invest, employ, expand and compete in an increasingly tough international market. My question to the Government is how this systematic tax hunt promotes companies' ability to hire and grow.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-463	Mr President, I would like to Politics are priorities. We prioritise investing in welfare and a good school that allows all children to grow up and feel safe and realize their ideas, including when it comes to becoming entrepreneurs. This builds a stronger economy, but it costs. We have invested 10 billion in targeted funds for the school. This year we are giving another 10 billion direct to the municipalities. This costs, and so we have had to adjust some taxes. It is wrong to describe it as all taxes we adjust are just rising, because we have also made tax cuts. For example, we have extended the RUT deduction, which is a good deduction for allowing new small businesses to grow. We have done this in broad agreement – it has been a good tax adjustment. I do not agree with the picture that the tax changes we are making are reducing entrepreneurship. On the contrary, we see increased business start-ups and opportunities for entrepreneurship, but in order to be a society that is connected, tax must be collected. Some of the taxes we take into companies, others we take into work and environmental pollution. This leads, for example, to a good school.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-466	Mr President, I would like to I do not share the views of the Government and the Government. The hunt for businesses does not stop at the 40-billion-dollar limit. New taxes are planned in the form of energy, finance, 3:12, kilometre tax, etc.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-468	Mr President, I would like to That particular question is easy to answer, Sotiris Deli's. We'll never be able to stop doing that, because we've never had one. We have an economic policy of taking in the taxes needed for us to invest in school, health care, care and what is important for society to be connected. I often see that there are better opportunities for taxing, for example, environmental pollution than labour, but some taxes also affect the tax base's work so that we can invest in school in this way. Then the young can grow up and realize their ideas and start businesses. I think that's good.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-471	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister of Education. According to the proposal presented in terms of grades from grade 4 and the trial to be carried out, evaluation shall be carried out by comparison with schools working with aesthetic learning processes or daily physical activity. The Swedish National Agency for Education, several universities, the two teachers' unions and the Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences are critical of the design of the evaluation and say that it will be difficult to get any real results if you choose such a model for evaluation. Their referrals were very critical.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-475	Mr President, I would like to The government and the Moderates agree that we will conduct a limited and voluntary trial with grades in grade 4 at a maximum of 100 of the country's intermediate schools. It is voluntary because we know that many teachers, and not least the teachers' unions, are concerned that they will have to devote their time and energy to something that they do not believe will produce better results. We think it is important that the teachers and principals are behind the experiment in the schools where it is to be carried out. The consultation bodies referred to by Maria Stockhaus reject the whole idea of an attempt in grade 4 and want to prioritise completely different things. It is, frankly, an attitude with which I have quite a great deal of sympathy. But now that we agree to do this, it is important to try to find a good comparison base for the experiment to be properly evaluated. Then we think it makes sense to compare it with other things and other educational attempts made, such as aesthetic learning processes. If the Moderates are critical of this, the question is: Are you worried about what such a comparison would show?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-479	Mr President, I would like to We stand by the agreement and believe that it is important to evaluate new methods introduced at school, regardless of the types of methods. But then it should be done on a scientific basis. According to the school law, the school should be based on a scientific basis, but the model for evaluation proposed by the government is anything but scientific. My question is therefore: how does the Minister of Education think that the evaluation method is consistent with the fact that the school should be based on a scientific basis?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-481	Mr President, I would like to An entirely scientific attempt would be based on the fact that we pick out 100 representative schools and tell them: Now you are going to introduce grades in grade 4. Then it'll be a complete scientific experiment. The problem is that we would then have to force teachers and principals to do this, when they would rather spend their time and energy on what they believe, and as science also says, has a greater effect on the results than trying to have grades in grade 4. We have therefore agreed on a voluntary attempt. In order for it to be properly evaluated, it must be compared with other voluntary educational development methods.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-484	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ygeman. I feel a certain dissension after Sunday's game. What happened on the pitch in Olympia arena is totally unacceptable. Players were attacked, and policemen and match hosts were injured. During the past year in Allsvenskan, the gross violence has escalated. It is about storming plans, assaulting players as well as Bengals and banging shots against players and officials. Violence in the streets outside the arenas has also increased. It is high time for the government to deliver clear measures so that people can feel safe in our football facilities. My question is therefore: what will the Minister do to prevent violence in connection with football matches?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-488	Mr President, I would like to I guess the situation in Helsingborg was difficult not only because of the unrest but also because of the result. Last week we decided on a sharp proposal for a ban on masking, and we will certainly come back with even more proposals. But when it comes to safety in the arenas, it is the organizer who is responsible, just as we d a rock gala or a speedway competition. The responsibility should be there, and if the organiser fails to do so, the arrangement will not be able to be implemented. I see that we need to be clearer in terms of making demands on organisers. Then the police must be better at prosecuting the criminal elements that are hiding among the supporters, so that they are not allowed to destroy the lawsuit. There is a positive development work within the police. Those who do not behave should be prosecuted, and requirements should be made for the organizers to have good security work.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-491	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. We know that football clubs today are not able to deal with all the problems. This is particularly true of the organised hooligans who come into the field, as in Helsingborg. They come from other countries and places. I think the police need to be supportive in the field when they rush in. You cannot demand that security guards and entrance hosts be able to cope with it when they are attacked by these people and subjected to severe violence. I think we need clearer and stronger rules. How can we help clubs cope with hooligans?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-494	Mr President, I would like to First of all, several of those who rushed into the field, though not all, have been identified, and they are under investigation. It is important that they receive good and effective sanctions. We need to develop sanctions and make the ban on access considerably more stringent. Anyone who has made a fool of himself and misbehaved himself in a football stadium will see the prospect of not going to football, either in that arena or any other ever-Swedish arena for a considerable period of time. I think that is part of the work against this.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-497	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Gustav Fridolin my question. One of the most important things for how you are doing in life is whether you pass school or not. It affects your chances of getting a job, and it affects your income. The risk of poverty, as well as the ills, increases if you do not pass school. One can even see a clear link with an increased risk of abuse, crime and premature death if one fails school. It is therefore absolutely crucial. To really make sure that all children pass school, you have to start early, because what the children have lost is hard to make up for after many years. The question is: How can you make sure that all children pass school with early intervention so that they can catch up with the children who have problems and difficulties so that they do not fall behind too much?
i-B9g915aDo6mEcQx1TtQ8Np	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Hillevi Larsson! That is exactly the case: we must ensure that children who have a small problem meet them in time, before this problem can grow into a major obstacle that puts children at risk of leaving the ninth grade without bringing competence and competence to high school. It is the most effective effort we can make, both to prevent human suffering and to prevent major future socio-economic costs. That is why we are investing clearly in the first few years. We invest in preschool, preschool and primary schools. We spend money on hiring more people there, so there's more time for the students. We design and develop a read-write-count guarantee that will manage that the efforts that we know make a difference for reading, writing and counting will be in place already in the first years and not as today often in eighth grade and ninth grade when the small problems have grown into major obstacles and the student risks not catching up. These efforts are cost-effective and extremely important for the student's future.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-505	Mr President, I would like to The problem today is that when the problem has already arisen, fire-fighting is tended to take place. But then it is much harder and more expensive to solve the problem. We may not notice the results of the efforts that we are now making for 10 to 20 years, but we must do them in order to have a better society. The effort is also much cheaper if you act early than if you act late. It will be more expensive, and it will be worse results if you act late. That is why I think this is very positive, and I hope that we will continue to work on this line.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-507	Mr President, I would like to I thank Hillevi Larsson for this. Teachers also call for a clearer mandate to deploy support when they see that it is needed. Ellen Key once said that the primary quality of a teacher is patience, because the value of one's work becomes visible only afterwards. Many of the teachers who see that an extra effort and a little more time with a student could help before the obstacle grows into a big problem want these tools. And we will ensure that these tools are in place.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-511	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Gustav Fridolin, who is the minister responsible for answering horizontal questions. In Turkey, over 100 000 people have been suspended or fired from their missions, and 37 000 have been arrested by military, teachers, academics and journalists since the attempted coup. Hundreds of schools and a large number of universities have been closed as well as numerous newspapers, television and radio stations. Recently, the police struck during the night. They arrested two party leaders and about ten MEPs from HDP. Many other elected representatives have been arrested.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-515	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders Österberg for the question. This is an extremely worrying development we are seeing in Turkey. It is a development involving arrests of MEPs, including the two party leaders of the HDP, discussions on the reintroduction of the death penalty, arrests of workers in newspapers and reprisals against teachers, police officers and others that are important for the social functions of Turkey. Criticism and concern about this have been expressed by the Swedish Government, both to representatives in Ankara and to representatives in Stockholm. We are clear about our position, and we are also an important voice for the EU to act together for human rights and for Turkey to return to an orderly peace process with the PKK and an orderly return to democratisation and stability. It's a long way, but our voice is important.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-517	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. That is a good answer given by the government on this issue. But I wonder where the limit is when the government condemns the situation and not just expresses its concern about the situation in Turkey?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-518	Mr President, I would like to The government is very clear about all human rights violations. We stand up for human rights in every situation. That is expressing concern, and that is condemning human rights violations. What is important in this context is that Sweden is needed to ensure that the EU can act together and that our voice is really clear. But Sweden is also needed for the collaborations with civil society that are important and that Sweden has been a driving force behind.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-521	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. Last week can be described in many different ways. The Government presented the gender equality letter and two new gender equality goals. At the same time, former MP Veronica Palm closed her Twitter account, and Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll was subjected to the perhaps worst possible sexist violation that a woman may be subjected to verbally. IPU has recently produced a report on sexism, harassment and psychological violence against women members and women in public. The report shows that 81.8% of respondents have been exposed to psychological violence. It includes gross sexist comments on social media, the dissemination of privacy-implementing images and threats of sexual abuse.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-525	Mr President, I would like to The first concerns the responsibility of all of us as leaders, as leaders and as Members of Parliament. I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to commend the Moderates for the clear action taken against the serious violations that were made. It was good, important and necessary. I hope that the good tone can continue and that it was not just a temporary crisis management. Otherwise, we have Gudrun Antemars's investigation into online hatred and threats. There are a number of sharp proposals. These are demands on those who provide these social platforms to remove offensive content. It is about opportunities to prosecute threats to a greater extent. Nevertheless, we have a very old-fashioned definition of threats, in which much of what is perceived as threats is not considered to be threats in the legal sense. That is why we want to change the law so that it is consistent with the general sense of law.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-527	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his answer. I believe that the measures presented by the Government on these issues are absolutely necessary. But I also believe that we need to look at the digital competence of the Police Authority in order to be able to deal with similar issues in future. My question is about that. What does the Minister of the Interior think is the case with the digital skills of the police, and what can we do to strengthen it?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-528	Mr President, I would like to At the central level, digital skills are now relatively good. There are twice as many police officers working in the Cyber-related Crimes Department compared to when the government took office. There are twice as many police officers working today to investigate hate crimes compared to when the government took office. Yesterday, I and the Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke presented the joint action plan against hate crime and racism. But further out in the police organization there is still a great need for further training in IT skills.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-531	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of High School Anna Ekström. I have, like many others, a son in ninth grade. This year is faced with the choice of upper secondary school. Maybe it's one of the most important choices you make in your life. Today I have been with him at a meeting with the study and career counselor. The study and career counselor, at least in Stockholm, where I live, has turned into a valstrateg rather than a guide to the realization of dreams, as one might wish. On the occasion of this meeting, I would like to ask the Minister for High Education if she thinks it reasonable that in the ninth grade we should decide on a practical or theoretical profession in the future. I also wonder if the Minister thinks it reasonable for us in the secondary school system to build walls that make the step towards further studies insurmountable for very many people who later want to study further.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-535	Mr President, I would like to I and many people with me think that the Swedish school should be about knowledge and education and that comprehensive school study and career guidance should be about ensuring that students can reach their full potential and should not be about ensuring different marketing goals. I believe that study and career guidance today is more important than ever. I see study and career guidance as an absolutely necessary tool. Young people have a great need for knowledge about which education and what professions work for them. On the specific issue of professional programmes, it is a very worrying development that fewer people are applying for professional programmes. Available evaluations show that one reason is that the professional programmes have become a little deterrent. Unfortunately, the previous government's line that professional programmes would not lead to higher education qualifications has given them an undeserved bad reputation.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-539	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, and I agree with what the High School Minister says. But the problem remains – for a lot of people, this choice determines where to end up in life, and if you choose a profession, you end up many times in a union that is very difficult to get out of in the future. The system at the moment certainly does not benefit what the High School Minister also mentions, namely the opportunity for young people to reach their full potential. So we have major problems in this area.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-540	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that this is an order we cannot continue to live with. A few weeks ago, I received a proposal from the High School investigation on my desk. It is a question of continuing the vocational programmes to prepare for higher education. The proposal provides for the possibility for pupils to opt out of certain subjects, but the starting point and main focus must be that the vocational programmes are preparatory to higher education. I think that is a good proposal, and I am happy to go on with it.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-541	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. A few weeks ago I participated in a long interview in Ekot, where I was asked what is the most important question for the school. I replied: political long-term. I have, of course, been sitting on the other side, as a teacher, trying to make a workshop out of the political proposals that have come. I know it takes three or four years to make decisions. As it looks in the opinion polls right now, there may be a risk that the Minister for Education will not remain in Parliament. The question is how he wants to be remembered. I suggest that we call for a round table where all politicians sit down and agree to actually come up with a common policy – as was done in Finland a number of years ago. Finland is much higher than we are in most of the studies that are coming. So I am not talking about high school investigations or about the School Commission, but I am talking about a conversation between us politicians.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-544	Mr President, I would like to I think even Stefan Jakobsson would miss me if the accident were there. In order for us to have that kind of conversation, it is important that there is a basis to stand on. This is particularly true in the Swedish school system, where reform has been made so that what we have at system level today does not support a culture of responsibility. It does not support teachers and principals well enough in their work either. We have what many have described as a patchwork without seams – it is difficult to see where one party's responsibility ends and the next party's responsibility takes on. This basis is produced by the School Commission. There we did the analysis that politics has been involved in creating the problem, and then perhaps politics should not be at the forefront of finding the solutions. Instead, we allow research and the profession to lead serious work with a free mandate to put forward proposals for a strong school system that will once again build an equal school. The School Commission will present its final proposals in April.
i-1bd54786eaa47722-547	Mr President, I would like to I'm standing here looking up at the students sitting in the stands. They're our future. It is parts of Sweden's future that are watching this. Then I think that next week and the week after that Timss, Timss Advanced and PISA – results that show how we are in the international surveys. I think Gustav Fridolin knows me well enough to know that I am really passionate about the school issue. I do not define myself as a politician but as Master Jakobsson; it is a teacher I am basically. Then we come to the next question: Isn't it time, after the School Commission report, to sit down and have a coffee?
i-1bd54786eaa47722-549	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Jakobsson mentions the large measurements made in Swedish schools. We look forward to them because they give an image – a picture – of how we are. Another important picture is the eligibility for upper secondary school, where we no longer see a trend that more and more people leave the ninth grade without permission further. In fact, among those who have had sufficient time in Swedish schools, there are a few more who leave the ninth grade with a ticket to the upper secondary school. Too many people don't, but there's something else that does. It is an important work victory for teachers and principals. Let's build on it so that all students get what they need!
i-1bd54786eaa47722-551	This concludes Question Time this week. I thank the ministers and the Members who have participated.
