i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-0	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Johnsson Fornarve has asked me whether I intend to take measures to diversify aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps to compensate for the Swedish aid of mackerel, which ends in mid-2017. She has also asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that Swedish aid goes to the part of Western Sahara that is under the control of Polisarios. Sweden has been assisting the Sahrawi refugees with humanitarian aid for a long time. In addition to the extensive core support provided by Sweden, Sida decided earlier this year to increase humanitarian support to the Sahrawi refugees to more than SEK 15 million. The decision means that Swedish humanitarian aid to Sahrawi refugees in 2016 is expected to be more extensive than in several years. Our support is channelled partly through Sida, partly through international humanitarian organisations to which Sweden provides extensive non-earmarked support. Among the humanitarian organisations supported by Sweden, which are involved in assisting the Sahrawi refugees with, for example, food and health problems, are the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, and the United Nations World Food Programme. Sweden also contributes through the EU budget to ECHO's efforts in the camps. Swedish humanitarian aid is based on humanitarian needs and on the humanitarian principles of humanity, impartiality, independence and neutrality. In addition, Sida will use humanitarian funds efficiently and strategically to help as many needy people as possible. Sida lives up to these principles. Similarly, the World Food Programme has the ability and expertise to put together nutritious food rations. The Sahrawi refugees are mainly located on Algerian territory, and humanitarian action is therefore taking place where the refugees are located. If humanitarian needs arise in other geographical areas, there is no fundamental obstacle to assisting there as well. Finally, I would like to point out that Sweden's support for the Sahrawi refugees will continue, as will our support for the core budgets of the UN organisations. At the same time, we are working to ensure that more countries and actors contribute to the various humanitarian crises that are going on, such as in Western Sahara. We are therefore in constant contact with the countries that are most involved in this matter.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! I welcome the Minister's reply that aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps will increase. It is important that Sweden continues to provide good assistance and that this support is not prioritised in the shadow of more acute conflicts. The Sahrawi refugee camps are very well organised and democratically built. This means that the aid that we are sending in really does come to the people and is distributed fairly as necessary. A large part of the Sahrawi population has been living for more than 40 years in refugee camps in the Sahrawi desert in southern Algeria, as a direct result of Morocco's illegal occupation of the country. It is an occupation that is judged to be illegal by, among other things, the International Court of Justice in The Hague – this is, of course, well known to the Minister. The conditions in the camps are very difficult. You are completely dependent on support and help from outside for your survival. The difficult situation worsened further in the last autumn when the camps were hit by an extensive rainstorm. I visited the Sahrawi refugee camps last December and could see with my own eyes the devastation caused by the rain. There were thousands of wrecked houses and schools and ruined roads and some 20,000 homeless families. Unfortunately, there has been a negative trend in aid to the Sahrawi camps from the outside world in recent years. One example of this is that the UN has been reduced, that Spanish aid, which has been very extensive, has been drastically reduced and that the EU has also cut back on its support. Against this background, it is very good that Sweden's support for the camps will increase – it will then mainly be channelled through strategic partners, including several UN agencies. But it also means that the nutritious mackerel, which the Swedish organisation Practical Solidarity has been assisting with since 2006, is likely to disappear as aid in 2017. The mackerel is the only regular source of protein available to the Sahrawi refugees today. Varied food is very important to health. Nutrition in the Sahrawi refugee camps is poor according to international standards. 78% of pregnant women suffer from anaemia. Of children under five, 25 percent suffer from chronic malnutrition, 56 percent from anaemia and 30 percent from short growth. The Minister says in his reply that the World Food Programme has the ability and expertise to put together nutritious food rations. Unfortunately, however, the organization sends aid adapted to people who are in a disaster situation for a short time. It is therefore not adapted to people who live as refugees for several years. The food delivered by the World Food Programme is too one-sided and inadequate. It needs to be supplemented with other products such as fruit, vegetables and animal proteins. The important source of protein, which is so much needed and which is largely made up of mackerel, is now threatening to cease. I find that very unfortunate. I do not think I have received sufficient answers to whether the Minister has been given assurances that this important aid will be compensated and, if so, how.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-15	Mr President, I would like to I think this is an important debate and would like to thank Lotta Johnsson, who has initiated it. Morocco has occupied Western Sahara since the mid-1970s. It is really Africa's last occupation – it still exists. It is not acceptable that it should continue in the way it does. It is therefore very important that the outside world continues to show solidarity with the Western Sahara and the Sahrawi people and therefore very clearly condemn Morocco's occupation. It is good to hear from the Minister that we are increasing aid for refugees in the Sahrawi camps in southern Algeria. I also note with some interest the answer to Lotta Johnsson's question as to whether Sweden can provide assistance to the areas controlled by the Polisario. Sweden has no objection in principle to providing aid to these areas as well. I think that is very positive, because I think there are very great needs there too. I have also visited the refugee camps around Tindouf in southern Algeria and can testify that the needs are enormous. They have become even bigger in recent years with extreme weather events and the like. But not only is more aid and humanitarian work needed, but more political action is also needed from Sweden. Some of the things I would like to highlight in this context are, for example, the fisheries and agriculture agreement that the EU has with Morocco and which, fortunately, the EU's tribunal some a year ago condemned in a judgment of the lower court of the European Court of Justice. This judgment has been appealed by EU ministers, and it surprises me and disappoints me very much that Sweden, as a country, is also a party to this important judgment. The judgment says that the agreement with Morocco was completely illegitimate and that Morocco uses the occupied area to fish and benefit from the occupation. That is why I find it so regrettable that Sweden was involved in bringing an appeal against the EU judgment. I also think it would be appropriate for the government to follow the announcement that we have made in this House, namely to recognise Western Sahara as a country. There is a majority in parliament who want to do so, and a number of countries – about 80 countries, mainly African countries – have already recognised Western Sahara as a country. That would be a very important political statement. After all, I will have a debate later here with the Minister on climate policy. Soon the climate summit C OP 22 will begin in Marrakech, Morocco. It is a very important meeting, but I must say that I think Morocco is an inappropriate host for this climate summit. It should not be held there, because one should not have such important meetings in countries that are occupations. Now this meeting will be held anyway, and I understand that the Minister is going there because the climate issue is very important. But I would have liked another host nation to have been agreed for this important meeting.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-24	Mr President, I would like to It is great that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve highlights this important issue and that we continue to debate. One of the areas where Sweden still assists Western Sahara is precisely the humanitarian. This conflict, as described earlier in this debate, has created a prolonged refugee situation and considerable human suffering. In addition, the conflict is blocking regional development over time, which means that humanitarian efforts will be vital for a long time. The review carried out by Sweden also shows the need for the development of Swedish aid to Western Sahara. I think that the Minister here today has also shown that we are doing so and that we are adapting to the current situation. Humanitarian aid has increased, and Sweden is closely monitoring developments in Western Sahara. What I would like to add is that Sida is an independent authority, and that the Minister should be responsible for the content of the food ration is somehow unreasonable. But, of course, it is extremely important that we recognise that this is long-term and vital humanitarian aid and that we must ensure that we finance it sufficiently. As Lotta Johnsson says, we must therefore ensure that this crisis is not overshadowed by other acute crises, and I think that Sweden shows that we will not allow it.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-28	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for all your contributions and thanks, above all, for the reports from the state of the camps in Tindouf! Like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve and Jens Holm, I have also visited the refugee camps in Tindouf and know how difficult the situation is there. There are also positive developments in the camps, but now, of course, these rains have made it extremely difficult. We are concerned to note that the EU has withdrawn its support, and there are several EU Member States that have also withdrawn their bilateral support to Western Sahara and precisely to the refugee camps in Tindouf. In view of this, Sweden, together with the EU countries that provide bilateral support – in addition to Sweden, including Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and also Spain – has written a letter to the Commission and to Echo to say that we are concerned about the situation. We also say that we want to be more active also in a dialogue on how to review this so that this refugee situation, one of the most protracted in the world, is not forgotten. Of course, the whole picture must also be seen when the world's humanitarian needs have quadrupled in ten years. We have 130 million people in need of humanitarian aid right now, and the appeal of the UN to the most in need is met only by barely half. This, of course, is a completely unacceptable situation in its entirety. We are seeing more and more wars and conflicts and also more and more natural disasters that make humanitarian needs huge. So we have great challenges. Sweden is one of the largest humanitarian donors in the world, and we have, after all, increased our earmarked support for the Sahrawi refugees in particular this year. I would also like to emphasise that it is Sida as an authority that has an independent mission to put the government's policy into practice. This also applies to humanitarian aid. The humanitarian principles must therefore be respected, and those most in need must, of course, be given priority. Sida makes independent decisions on which partners to use and which partnerships to conclude. The need for a nutritional diet is thus included by Sida in an overall assessment, and where they choose partners. The government is of course involved in dialogue with, for example, the World Food Programme me, UNHCR and other actors around the needs that exist. It is about both the urgent needs and the need to bridge the gap with long-term development aid. Tindouf has been around since 1975. There must also be support for education, economic development and self-sufficiency in order for people to contribute to their own livelihoods. I think this is a very important issue when we look at all the millions of people who get stuck in protracted refugee situations. Jens Holm spoke about the climate summit. It is the African group that has appointed who will be the world for the climate summit. So it is not the UN that has done so, and Sweden has not been involved in the decision at all.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-36	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I think it is very good that the Minister points out that Sweden is trying to involve more actors and in this way is also trying to raise the question of Western Sahara internationally. That's a good thing. The Minister also says that Sida will use its humanitarian grant effectively and strategically to help as many needy people as possible. That is, of course, right and wise. Therefore, I am a little surprised that Sida has decided to phase out the aid channeled through Practical Solidarity mainly in the form of the nutritious mackerel – the support that has been both effective and significant. At a relatively small cost for Sida, this organisation has been able to fill an important basic need. This aid is now in danger of disappearing without there being a clear guarantee that it will be replaced by something equivalent. Sweden does not recognise Western Sahara, and now it removes the aid channelled through a Swedish organisation. It can give strange signals to the Sahrawi people that Sweden may no longer be on their side. The Swedish link will not be as clear if it is channelled through international bodies, and the direct dialogue with the population will also be worse. It is positive that the Minister is opening up the possibility of also being able to assist refugees in the part of Western Sahara under the control of the Polisarios. It is true that most refugees live in refugee camps in southern Algeria. There are opportunities for more people to settle in the part of Western Sahara under the control of Polisarios, but then more support is needed from outside. Since 1999, Polisario has invested in building up the part of the country that you control — about 20 to 25 percent of the country. Tifariti has been appointed as the provisional capital. It's a little uncertain how many people live in the area. These may be a few thousand, mainly nomads, but also people from the refugee camps live there during periods. The area has administrative buildings, hospitals, museums and a university. Furthermore, parts of the Polisario army are there, and the UN surveillance force Minurso has two posts in the area. There are good opportunities to develop that part of the country and get more people to move there, especially from the refugee camps in Algeria. But society is in great need of assistance in order to develop. One of the problems in the liberated part is the lack of functioning infrastructure, in particular access to water and roads. Support for education and health care is also needed. This could be an important task in the development work that would help build up that part of the country and help to give the refined Sahrawi people new confidence in the future, increase employment and strengthen self-confidence. It would also draw the focus away from the discussion that has arisen about resuming the armed struggle. It is a discussion that has arisen from the frustration that so little is happening in the peace process. Are there any discussions or plans to extend aid to the part of Western Sahara under the control of Polisario at this time? If not – would the Minister be prepared to discuss such assistance if a request were made?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-44	Mr President, I would like to I would like to tie in with what Lotta Johnsson mentioned, namely the importance of the outside world not turning its back on Western Sahara. The issue of assistance in areas under the control of the Polisarios could be such a measure to help Western Sahara as a state. I mentioned in my previous speech that Sweden should recognise Western Sahara as a country. There is an announcement from the Riksdag on this issue. I know that the issue has been discussed many times before, but I still think that the government should do so. The issue that has not been discussed as much is the suspension by the EU tribunal of the fisheries and agriculture agreement with Morocco. The agreement is, in fact, a mere looting agreement, and it enables Morocco, for example, to fish in Western Sahara waters. This is totally unacceptable, and it is stated in the judgment. Why, Isabella Lövin, has Sweden supported the appeal against the judgment? Shouldn't it be a verdict that we welcome?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-48	Mr President, I would like to I note in my last speech that the major problem is that people are still being forced to stay in these refugee camps. We support the UN process and the UN Special Envoy for Western Sahara, Christopher Ross, and his work aimed at a fair, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that gives the people of Western Sahara self-determination in accordance with the rules decided by the UN Security Council. In the meantime, on the way there and at the same time as we support the UN process, we are increasing humanitarian aid. We must also ensure that there is a bridge to a more long-term development aid, on the one hand, to create the conditions for the political process to be successful and, on the other hand, to improve the long-term situation of life, education and work for the people who, year after year, remain in the camps.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-50	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you once again for the recordings! Humanitarian operations in Polisario controlled areas are assessed according to needs. There is no obstacle here to such action being taken in the area. Then there is a regional strategy for West Africa with various things in focus that currently do not cover the Polisario-controlled area. It is a strategy aimed at strengthening the issue at regional level. Right now, there's nothing planned. Again, Sida has that planning responsibility. Sweden does not currently intend to recognise Western Sahara. On the other hand, Sweden supports the UN process and recognises the right of the Western Saharas to self-determination. We await the appeal process of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. There's going to be a judgment in the future. Sweden's position in the circle of EU Member States in the Council was not to oppose such an appeal, on which there was agreement. We see it as an important ruling in principle, and we are waiting for the verdict. This is, of course, an important issue, and we support the UN process. We support Christopher Ross. This is a lamentable issue that has not found its solution despite very great efforts by the international community and all parties. Let me return to the question of the humanitarian situation. Sweden will stand firm to support the Sahrawi people. Sweden is one of the largest donors. We have taken an initiative with other EU donors to ensure that the EU has a concerted approach to strengthen its humanitarian support for the Sahrawi refugees now in Tindouf and possibly elsewhere as well.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-57	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answers and the debate. I am pleased that the Minister promises that Swedish support for the Sahrawi refugees will continue. It's extremely important. I also hope that the Minister will work hard to ensure that aid to the camps is more differentiated and that we have guarantees that the important mackerel will be compensated so that the food for the refugees becomes more nutritious. I also hope that the Minister will be prepared to develop aid in the future so that it will also cover the part of Western Sahara under the control of the Polisarios. I am convinced that it would help greatly to reduce the frustration of the Sahrawi people and contribute to more stability and confidence in the future. The Minister also mentions the strategic regional development plan. I believe that one of the most important contributions to such a plan would be for Sweden to recognise Western Sahara. It would certainly increase stability, the possibility of peace and peace in the region. Otherwise, there is indeed a risk that there will be war again between Western Sahara and Morocco. At present, there is only a cease-fire, and there is great frustration among young Sahrawi people in particular. Of course, we want to avoid war. Recognition would speed up the process and help to find a quick solution to the long conflict.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-62	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve! I promise we will help those in need of humanitarian help, no matter where they are. We support the Sahrawi refugees who have this need. The five-year regional strategy for Swedish development cooperation in the Middle East and North Africa applies between 2016 and 2020. Its priorities are strong democracy, human rights, gender equality, sustainability and climate, economic integration and trade. It is clear that at the moment there is no cooperation or support for the areas of Western Sahara under the control of the Polisarios. It is nothing I promise will happen in any way. On the other hand, there is this regional strategy. Surely that is the window that exists for development cooperation at the moment, when we do not have bilateral support or cooperation with more than a few countries in the region.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-65	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me questions about the EU's proposal on the sharing of responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions. The first of the questions is whether I will work towards raising the overall level of ambition in the proposal on burden-sharing. I agree with Jens Holm that the EU's ambitions for 2030 are not enough for the EU to assume its responsibilities to achieve the Paris Agreement's objectives. The level of ambition needs to be raised. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has previously assessed that the EU's responsibility and capacity would correspond to an emission reduction of between 50 and 55% by 2030. It was based on the global ambitions that prevailed before strengthening the global objectives in Paris. The government is committed to increasing ambition. This week I have held talks with colleagues in the EU around all parts of the EU framework with this overall objective. Unfortunately, the possibilities for taking decisions on changing objectives are currently small or non-existent. A decision would have to be taken at the European Council and by consensus between all Member States. The conditions for this do not currently exist. The government is therefore working for a much stronger review clause than that contained in the Commission's proposal to have a clear basis for deciding on an increased level of ambition in the context of the reviews to take place under the Paris Agreement. The government wants to see a review in the EU already in the context of the first review under the Paris Agreement, which will take place when the UN Panel on Climate Change comes up with a new report in 2018, rather than as proposed by the Commission in 2024. The second issue is to remove or minimise the possibility of achieving national emission reductions with the purchase of emission credits in other countries. In this respect, I would like to point out that the objectives of the division of responsibilities are achieved only by domestic measures within the Union. This means that the only emission credits that will be purchased by one Member State are emission units from another Member State. It is not a new opportunity, but it is already included in the EU's decision on burden-sharing that will apply until 2020. Removing that opportunity has never been up for discussion. The third question is whether I will work to eliminate or minimise the possibility of crediting for inclusion in the land use, land use change and forestry sector. I would like to stress here that it is important for the accounting framework to be properly designed. The government is still analysing the design and impact of the flexibility of the proposals. It is clear that flexibility will be part of the final framework. The government agrees that some flexibility is needed, but considers it important that it should not be designed so that some Member States do not have to implement the necessary measures and changes if the long-term climate goals are to be achieved. The design of flexibility must be made in order to maintain the actual level of ambition and environmental integrity of the system. Finally, Jens Holm has asked whether I will work to include in the regulation on burden sharing an article on international cooperation in which the EU and its Member States are more promising capital, technology and cooperation to help developing countries reduce their emissions rapidly. This is an important part of the commitment of the EU and its Member States under the Paris Agreement and a discussion that is very important. However, we shall have it in other contexts. As the objectives of the ESR, the distribution of emissions reduction responsibilities, are to be achieved with domestic measures and the regulation is about how this should be done, there is no need to include the issue of international cooperation in the regulation.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-75	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. This debate ties quite well with the previous one. There, for example, the Minister said that today there are more than 130 million people around the world in need of humanitarian aid and that, unfortunately, the number is only increasing. Some of the reasons for this, as the Minister also pointed out, are the extreme weather events that seem to come more and more frequently and become more brutal when storms, sea level rises, heat and other things are spreading. We know that it is the poor who are affected here and now, and we know that extreme weather events are linked to climate change. They are thus also linked to the emissions that we in the rich world contribute. Therefore, the proposal on burden sharing, i.e. the distribution of emissions reductions between the 28 EU Member States, is an important proposal. It covers more than half of the EU's total emissions. It is particularly traffic and agricultural emissions, i.e. emissions that are not covered by the EU emissions trading scheme. My first question is that we need to raise the level of ambition. Reducing emissions by 30% by 2030 in this system is simply not enough. I think it is positive that the Minister for Climate Change shares my analysis. But then Isabella Lövin says that it is not possible to push through an increase in ambition here and now without having to take it at a later date. It should be borne in mind that the objectives of this proposal were set in 2014. So they were established before the Paris Summit. Now we have a Paris agreement which says that everyone must do more. We will strive to ensure that the temperature increase is not more than one and a half degrees. Isabella Lövin! If everyone is going to do more, must it also include the EU and the EU Member States? So I would like to ask: has the Minister even tried to sharpen the ambition of this proposal? How does the Minister know so sure it's impossible? My second question concerns the so-called flexibility mechanisms included in the proposal. There are a number of proposals that risk undermining the level of ambition. One of those proposals, which I believe is a new proposal, is that allowances from the EU ETS should be used to achieve commitments under this scheme. I would like to emphasise that in my interpellation I am talking about emission credits. It can lead your mind in the wrong direction. What I meant was that, under this proposal, allowances, a surplus of allowances that one might have, should be used within the EU's trading system to achieve the reduction requirements of this system. It risks undermining the level of ambition of this system. I would like a straight answer from the Minister for Climate Change. Would it not be better to ensure that all the emission reductions to be made under this proposal, in the area of burden sharing, are also made within precisely the division of responsibilities and that we close that loophole so that allowances from the EU's trading system cannot be used to meet their commitments? I had a few more questions, Mr President, but I see the time is running out, so I will take them in my next speech.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-85	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm and I very much share the concern about the impact of climate change. We see that this year we are heading for the warmest year that has ever been measured. The warmest year yet measured is last year. We see the effects of climate change in the form of extreme weather events. You should never directly link a weather event to climate change, but the trend is so clear now. We see drought spreading, and here the responsibilities of the rich countries are absolutely indisputable. I was just at the Pre-COP meeting, the pre-meeting for the major climate summit that will take place in Marrakech in November. It discussed, among other things, funding, which is important because the rich countries have promised money to the poor for the damage they suffer. Support will also be provided to help build up renewable energy instead of locking in to old technologies and fossil solutions. I can report that at the moment there is a very positive spirit in the global community and in the climate negotiations. It feels like everyone is now interested in changing – now we will implement the Paris Agreement. No one is questioning it anymore, and that is a huge step forward. Then I can agree that the EU's responsibility goes far beyond reducing emissions to 30% by 2030. Here, the whole world needs to raise levels of ambition significantly when the IPCC presents its 2018 report. That is when you will see how big the gap will be between keeping global warming somewhere between one and a half and two degrees and, as we are probably heading for now, three degrees. That is the important thing for us at the moment: that we have a proper link to a thorough revision of the Paris Agreement and that throughout the EU climate framework there are windows with review clauses that allow us to upgrade the levels of ambition. It will have to be done all over the field if we are to take our responsibility for global warming, and that we have to do so is indisputable. It is also possible that the solutions will become apparent over time and that resistance may decrease. Should we try to tear up the 2014 binding Council conclusions, everything would be back in the air, and that would create enormous uncertainty. Now, with a lot of sighs and groans and direct opposition from many countries, we have all signed up to this. Then it is important that we get the division of responsibilities in place and that the countries start to work, because it sends the right signal that we are actually serious about this work. I am sure that technological development and other things will play with us so that it will be easier to bring the countries with us in 2018, when we really need it. The flexibility from ETS to ESR is about 100 million tonnes, and it is quite little on the whole. Only some Member States have this possibility: small Member States with high GDP per capita. Sweden will probably not have to make use of this; I see that as out of the question. There are a few more who can do it, but I see no great danger in it.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-91	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I and climate minister Isabella Lövin agree that it is absolutely indisputable that we in the industrialised world are responsible for our emissions and must do more. It is good that we agree on that. I understand that it is difficult at European level to raise the issue of raising the level of ambition when there are some states that want to lower it or perhaps remove all these commitments altogether. However, there must be a country or, preferably, a number of countries, a critical mass, which constantly reminds us that we need to do more. That's what I want to hear. I do not want the Minister for Climate Change to lie down before the match has even begun, but I want to hear all the time – in the Swedish position, in the European Council, in debate articles, when the Minister goes down to Brussels – that we need to raise the levels of ambition. We must take responsibility for our historical emissions. Don't get caught in the tactical game! Then I think you lose before you start. With regard to flexibility, as is well known, we are talking about 100 million tonnes of emissions that can be taken from the trading system, which is today a system that is not working properly, with a very low price of allowances. It will be like a prize ticket for Luxembourg, Denmark, Austria, Finland and other countries that will be able to use the emission credits. Sweden is one of the nine countries that should be able to benefit from this. It would be good if the Minister said that we are so developed and prosperous countries that we do not need these. We should say that we do not intend to use this and that we want it removed from the regulation. I wonder if the Minister will work for it. The Minister's answer also states that the use of emission allowances from the trading system is not a new possibility. But as I see it, this is a new proposal. The fact that the countries in the division of responsibilities can switch emission units between each other is another matter – it is now being taken from a trading system. The Minister also says in his reply that a degree of flexibility is important both in the division of responsibilities and in the second system of forestry and land use. I wonder what flexibility the Swedish Government really thinks is needed. Is it not better to focus on the fact that if an emission is to be reduced by one tonne, it should be reduced by one tonne, without a lot of other components being mixed in? Can the Minister provide at least one example of flexibility that the Swedish Government considers important? I also raise the issue of international cooperation: helping developing countries by transferring money, new environmental technologies and so on. I think it would be good if this issue were also raised in the proposal on the division of responsibilities from the European Union. The Minister says that these are important issues but that the discussion should be held in other contexts. I think that climate aid and funding should be raised in all possible contexts. I would like to remind you that the emissions trading system actually addresses the issue of climate finance and technology transfer. A link is made with the auctioning of emission allowances and says that revenues can go to climate finance in developing countries. I think it would be appropriate to raise this issue in this context too, but then it should of course be cooperation that goes beyond what is done at home and does not take place instead of reducing emissions at home. It would be interesting to know whether the Minister thinks it would be good to include the international dimension in this proposal as well.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-98	Mr President, I would like to The EU's climate framework consists of many elements, and it is relatively technically complicated to discuss the individualities without seeing the whole thing. We are currently in the middle of negotiating and reaching conclusions on both the division of responsibilities, the EU ETS and the so-called LULUCF framework. It is important to see this as a whole so that we do not overall reduce the ambitions of the countries but rather raise them. I can assure Jens Holm that in every context I stress that this must not open loopholes so that we lower our ambitions. All countries must shoulder their responsibilities and need to raise their ambitions, whether they are forced to do so or not. Sweden has set itself higher targets nationally through the Miljömålsföreningen, where seven parties are behind us in the non-contracting sector to reduce emissions by 59 per cent – not 40 per cent as in the proposal. So our expectation of other countries is that they will do much more. Looking at the targets by 2020, we can see that the EU as a whole has already met them, which shows how cautious those targets were. It should be borne in mind that there was just as much complaint when they were to be adopted as they are now when it comes to the 2030 targets. Yet it turns out that it was much easier than it was thought to achieve the objectives. There are a number of technical issues, such as the base year from which to count emission reductions. Should we count from 2020 or from 2016 to 2018, as the Commission has proposed and which we naturally support? Perhaps we think that we could be even more ambitious. What I'm trying to say is that there are many parts to this equation. I think it is wrong to try to focus on one and say that it is the big loophole. There's a lot of loopholes. But we must be very vigilant that the total is that we do not lower the level of ambition. We are also very clear that this is not enough. We need to review the ETS, and we need to strengthen the price signal for emission allowances. This is Sweden's starting point, and we are actively pursuing this. How much, then, are these 100 million tons? This compares with Sweden's annual emissions of 55 million tonnes. It is therefore barely equivalent to Sweden's emissions over two years. However, this applies to the whole of the EU for ten years. Even if it's a lot, it's not that much. As I said, Sweden will not use this. After all, if other countries choose to do so, it means removing allowances from the ETS. It is not, therefore, completely wasted, but it does not give us the pressure of change that we would need, and it does not lead to taking our own measures at home. There are many flexibilitys. Is anyone needed? Yes, perhaps it is possible to borrow emission allowances from the following year, in order to reduce emissions more next year. There are such possibilities in the flexibility scheme.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-106	Mr President, I would like to I can agree that it is easy to get technical when discussing these issues. I try not to be technical but to focus on the political. But sometimes the truth is in the details, and it is important to go into it as well. The Minister now explained, among other things, what kind of flexibility the Swedish Government is driving. I think it's reasonable that what you can't do one year, you have to fulfill the next. That is how flexible I think you can be. The Minister then talks about the 100 million tonnes that could then be taken from the emissions trading system. 100 million is nothing to put under control with. We should also remember that the proposal on land use and forestry, on which we have not received much, speaks of 260 million tonnes to be credited. So together it becomes a lot. As the Minister says, starting from a worse base year, there will also be a form of loopholes. All loopholes undermine the entire credibility and ambition of the system. But I take it that the Minister will push for the overall level of ambition to be increased and that there will be as few loopholes as possible: if you are to reduce by one tone you should do so and not keep on and numberrix a! That's good. The international dimension is important. The most important thing is that something concrete is happening, so that Tanzania, Vietnam, Bangladesh and Peru get the latest and best technology and that they get money so that they do not have to make our mistakes again. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is important to remember that switching to low emissions is not just a climate issue, but it is also an opportunity to create a better society, where we live better, with better public health, and create new, green jobs and so on. It is an important issue in many dimensions.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-112	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree with the latter and with Jens Holm's summary. This is not a sacrifice, it is a question of turning into a new society that means security and confidence in the future for our children and for future generations. The Stern report has long since stated that a business-as-usual scenario would reduce economic development and growth by between 5 and 20%. It would be hugely expensive. So we only have things to gain by making these investments on time. As far as the international dimension is concerned, I would like to say that there was a major discussion on this at the pre-meeting in Marrakech. It was about funding, among other things. This is becoming more and more of a global consensus when it comes to the fact that earmarked money is not everything. Rather, it is just a drop in the huge flow of resources that will be needed to reset. The $100 billion that rich countries have promised is important money for adjustment for the least developed countries, which cannot attract private capital and so on, but then we have to reset the entire aid. Everything must strive for the green transition. In addition, we need to change the whole global economy, so that we can benefit what is climate-smart and good, and also avoid resources from the poor countries through tax evasion and other things. This is a whole. The EU climate framework is a good one, and there may be mechanisms there. But the big thing is the EU's entire aid, and on this issue we are working very actively. We also work with Swedish aid from this very starting point.
i-UXr5RZV5zFZRaeRsfPiRsm	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister Anna Johansson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-117	Mr President, I would like to I intend to put a question to Minister Baylan. When we started work in the Energy Commission, we Moderates were very clear that some harmful energy taxes needed to be reduced or abolished. We are, of course, pleased that the tax on nuclear power will now be removed and that the property tax on hydro power will be reduced. Unfortunately, there are other energy taxes on which the government has not given any information. Last year's hatred from the government regarding tax on environmental fuels is a nightmare example. First, the tax was increased with the declaration that the EU demanded it. Then the tax was reduced by the declaration that the EU did not require such a tax increase. Sweden currently has an exemption from EU state aid rules on renewable fuels, but it only runs until 2018. What happens next? There's no news. Biofuel producers cannot plan, and households react to decisions being taken that the latter is being reversed.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-122	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Cecilie-Toftby, for an important question! If we are to leave fossil fuels behind and change in the transport sector, we must, of course, be able to develop alternative fuels. Biofuels and biofuels are then very important. One of the main reasons for our being where we are is that the previous government passed a law in Parliament that was not approved in the EU. So it had to be withdrawn. Ever since we took office, we have been working intensively towards the European Union to anchor a new proposal. In the meantime, we have requested – as the honourable Member says – an exemption and managed to get it. We are working to present a proposal by 1 January 2018.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-126	Mr President, I would like to These are ways to behave that do not benefit those who produce, and that does not benefit households. Unfortunately, I have noted a degree of frustration from the people concerned that this red-green government is making decisions on questionable grounds and that are later backed up. How can we trust that the government, when it makes future decisions in the area of taxation, for example, actually has a correct basis so that it does not later have to back off its decisions?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-129	Mr President, I would like to I think the honourable Member is very brave. That is exactly what has put us in this position. The previous government implemented a law, received the support of the parliament, but did not get it approved by the EU. You had to withdraw the law. That is what has created this uncertainty. We have now worked on the European Commission step by step. We will present a proposal which we know will be approved in advance. It is taking responsibility and providing long-term conditions.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-132	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Migration. For many years, Sweden has, as we know, pursued an irresponsible and unsustainable migration policy, which has caused problems for almost every area of society. As a result, the government has a little reluctantly implemented several of the Swedish democrats' proposals regarding border controls and asylum immigration. Family immigration has also been mentioned. We have so far seen positive effects of these measures, although in no way can that be considered sufficient. In the public debate, it almost sounds like there are not many immigrants coming to Sweden today, but that is not really the case. My question to the Minister for Migration is whether he believes that the number of family immigrants who can come to Sweden will be a problem.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-136	Mr President, I would like to I certainly do not share the view on the talk of irresponsibleness and other things. We as a country have taken greater responsibility than any other country has done in relation to the global refugee crisis. Perhaps we have taken a greater responsibility than we expected. We had hoped that more countries would have done so. We now see the bombs falling in Aleppo or the crisis in M osu l where there are hundreds of thousands of people on the run. Since 2011, when the war broke out, we have taken responsibility for 138 000 Syrian refugees and given them protection. Otherwise, these people could well have perished in one of the bomb crevades. I'm very proud of that. Then we will make sure that those who are allowed to stay here get a good reception. Those who now receive approval will go out on the strongest labour market that we have had in many years. I'm sure it will go very well for all Syrians who have come to Sweden.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-140	Mr President, I would like to If we ignore the fact that the Minister for Migration did not touch the matter at all, it would probably be good if he visited refugee camps and saw where people actually need help. But I'm gonna get back to what it's all about. For several years, the immigrant family to Sweden has been the largest immigrant group, and I do not see that this is going to change.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-143	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel does not have to teach me what the situation is in the refugee camps. I've been in refugee camps in Jordan and Lebanon. I know what the situation is. Sweden is one of the countries that contributes most to helping the people who remain in the refugee camps. As you know, we are also increasing the number of quota refugees, that is, refugees who can come directly from refugee camps. When it comes to family migration, there are many things that depend on both the labour market and the housing market. I am therefore very pleased to note that more housing is now being built than it has been in Sweden for a very long time.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-145	Mr President, I would like to It is known that the Center Party has a different view of migration policy than the government. But we stand by the agreement that we reached together when we were all allowed to give and take. My question is more about the second major agreement reached between the Alliance and the government parties, namely the one on how we deal with terrorist threats. That agreement contains a number of important points on how war criminals and terrorists can be prosecuted. I was pleased to see that the government is delivering on one or two of these points in the report on criminal measures against participation in armed conflict. Even the association itself with a terrorist organisation can be said to be covered to some extent, something that we from the Center Party have considered important. What didn't make me so happy was when I saw the timetable for this. It is proposed that the laws enter into force on 1 July 2017. We need these laws in place as soon as possible. My question to the Minister for Migration is simply: what is taking so long?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-150	Mr President, I would like to That question I can almost bounce back directly to Johan Hedin. When we took office two years ago, there was not a single piece of paper written on how to kick-start the criminalisation of terrorist travel. The previous government had done nothing to initiate a legislative process. We had to do that from the beginning, even though you promised. At that time we took the first step, which, incidentally, was one of the first decisions I took at the Ministry of Justice, by initiating such a legislative process. We've taken the first step. We have decided on the criminalisation of some of the problems, which is part of the reason why almost no-one is going to war. There are other reasons too. However, the fact that we on the part of the state and the authorities are clear that this is a crime has probably been very important.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-152	Mr President, I would like to I don't feel that I got a real answer to why it takes so long. Why does it have to take a year to get this in place? We have made other laws as things have gone extremely fast. When the government found out last year that we should have ID checks and border controls for people commuting across the Öresund Bridge, it happened in a few days. What's the difference? Furthermore, at that time we did not even agree. Now we have a broad agreement. We in the Alliance are prepared to stand up to speed up the process in committee as much as possible.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-154	Mr President, I would like to We took this in two steps. The first is to be able to comply with the UN resolution presented in autumn 2014. It was important to get it in place. We also wanted to send a signal to those who were going to go to war to know that when they come back they will be prosecuted and put in prison. The second step was to extend this further, for example with regard to different service functions. It is much more difficult to make a delimitation there. In addition, we must take into account the opinion of the Law Council.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-156	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Morgan Johansson. On 16 September, we had a debate in this House on the problem of violence against women and on the need to tighten up the penalties for gross discrimination against women. On one point, I agreed with the Government, namely that we should act preventively in parallel with reviewing the legislation. As far as crimes committed in Sweden are concerned, most things never actually arrive at the police because they do not report. The same applies to honour-related crimes, as very few reports go to prosecution. How does the Government feel about the fact that there are so many cases that never reach the judicial system and go to prosecution, not least with regard to the honour-related crimes?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-159	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the government's top priorities. That is why, among other things, we have ensured that support for the victims of crime is strengthened in a way that no government has actually done in the past. Women's shelters and crime victims' shelters now have more money to move with than they have ever had before. For women's shelters it is about SEK 100 million more. In addition, we must be much better at supporting those who report at an early stage. Among other things, it is a matter of bringing in plaintiffs as quickly as possible. As Roger Haddad may have seen in the report on sexual crimes, in which we want to move forward with substantial tightening up, there is also a proposal to go in with plaintiffs already when the crime itself is reported. This is incredibly important in order to be able to stand the distance out, i.e. through preliminary investigation and trial. Then more can be prosecuted and convicted.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-162	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get a direct answer. There are research and several studies carried out by the Crime Prevention Council, where people in investigations have ticked that it is pointless to report to the police because it can still do nothing. This is the option that has received the most answers to the question of why not report. This is a major problem for the judiciary. In September we had a debate on the importance of prevention, and this is important. We brought up the tragic murder of Lotta, 41 years old, and now we have the case of Walaa in Hedemora. Despite documented damage, the police are closing the case. How does the Government feel about this?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-164	Mr President, I would like to Like the discussion we had before, I cannot comment on individual cases, as Roger Haddad well knows. However, I can say that for both the government and the police and prosecutors these violent crimes are very high priority. We will, of course, do everything we can to ensure that we get the support we need and that these issues and investigations are taken very seriously by both the police and the prosecutors. We also have an extended possibility of a ban on contact by adding anklets.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-167	Mr President, I would like to Personal assistance is one of the most fundamental reforms that have been made for people in our country who are very vulnerable and who have a great need for support from society. Over the past year, a great deal of anxiety has spread. We hear stories about people who get their assistance reduced or completely lose their assistance compensation. Throughout the autumn, we have heard statements from the government and not least Magdalena Andersson that we must reduce the cost of assistance compensation. Last week, Stefan Löfven said that the money should not go to lawyers and consultants. My question to Minister Regnér is: Does the Government exclude that these statements, together with the regulations and investigation directives, actually affect the decisions?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-170	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Henriksson! I fully agree that this is an extremely important reform. It is a reform of freedom and independence that we in the government really want to protect. However, we have received a lot of information that over a ten-year period costs have risen from 15 billion to 30 billion a year, despite the fact that the number of people has increased by only 2 000 – from 14 000 to 16 000 people. However, the number of hours has increased. We also know that at least five heavy-duty bodies have identified that the funds are not always used for assistance hours, for proper assistance. They are used for lawyers, consultants and marketing – that is, for other things than this very reform of freedom. Then we have to do different things. We have therefore set up an investigation to review judgments that have fallen. We have also written a regulatory letter and have reviewed the stencil.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-173	Mr President, I would like to The efforts made by the government, the statements they have made, the investigative directives they have given and the task they have given to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency are precisely what gives cause for concern. My question, which the Government did not answer, was: Does the Government exclude that what the Government says and what the Government gives guidance on affects the decisions taken in the matter?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-174	Mr President, I would like to Försäkringskassan is tasked with helping to break the hourly trend, which has been very dramatic in recent years. We also know that the funds are not being used properly. The Social Insurance Agency will of course do this within the framework of the law. It shall also ensure that there are equivalent assessments throughout the country and that the processing is of high quality. I believe that it is my responsibility as Minister to ensure that the funds are used as intended. It is the money of the right-holders and taxpayers. This is my responsibility.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-177	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Åsa a question. Sweden is often highlighted as a leading country in terms of gender equality, but we still have a lot to do. This applies, in particular, to boardrooms where it is still hopelessly unequal, although progress is slow following pressure from both the current government and the previous one. The government recently sent out a bill on gender balance on company boards for a referral. What effects does the Government hope that such a law will have on gender equality in a broader perspective, in addition to of course forcing companies to propose more women to the boards?
i-DixTCuDbUbQAJ8qXQTVSWo	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Johanna Haraldsson! We have long set targets for gender equality policy. They are about representation, even power and influence. This is, of course, an extremely important issue, along with the other sub-objectives of economic equality, reduced violence against women and so on. The issue of women's presence on listed company boards has been discussed for at least 15 years. The business community has had a very long time to change the composition of the company boards, where very important decisions are made that go beyond those in these rooms. Women have significantly higher education than men and also have almost as much managerial experience as men, if you look at the labour market in general. It is high time to use this competence. This is an important equality issue, as many other countries see. For example, I was in Germany yesterday. Berlin has recently made a similar proposal.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-183	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. But if you listen to representatives of the bourgeois parties, you can conclude that this proposal may be difficult to get through in the Swedish parliament. What other measures does the Minister think could be taken to increase gender equality in business?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-184	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to take a wide range of measures, particularly on the part of industry. Of course, I often meet representatives of the business community. They are aware of this issue. They are also aware that men recruit men. It is not wrong for women in general, but it is about recruitment processes. You need a dialogue on that. However, I know that both the debate on legislation and the proposal are giving further impetus to the debate. I also know that many Swedish companies have gender equality as their brand.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-185	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Sexual Crime Investigation finally – the third time like – presented a proposal for consent-based sex crime legislation. There was political agreement in the Committee. My questions to the Minister of Justice are: will such legislation be decided? If so, will that legislation also include a proposal for a negligent crime? This increases the requirement for everyone to take responsibility for the voluntary participation of the person with whom sexual relations are initiated.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-186	Mr President, I would like to The short answer to that question is: yes, we will present a proposal during this term of office. It will happen next year. It will be one of the major criminal justice reforms that we are implementing. As I said, I accepted the investigation last week. It is clear that it is a huge strength that we have all the parties behind this. It would mean a major change in criminal law to change the principle here. At the same time, I will not go too far ahead. As the questioner knows, the investigation is being referred, and I must respect the consultation. However, I would like to take note of some of the main suggestions in the investigation. It is about moving to a principle that says that the starting point for legislation should be that what is not voluntary is abuse. That way you don't have to work with concepts such as threats, violence, coercion, vulnerable situations and helpless conditions, which have been very difficult to handle.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-188	Mr President, I would like to A further suggestion in this report is that the judiciary should be strengthened to act against offensive and irrelevant issues. In order for people who have been exposed to it to feel that it is worth going through a tough trial, it is incredibly important that we overcome that there are still lots of questions about the color of the panties, historical sexual habits etcetera. What further action does the Minister of Justice think is needed there?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-189	Mr President, I would like to I believe that there is always a need for continuous development of the skills of all actors in the judiciary on these issues. The judges are probably part of it, but that also applies to prosecutors and defence lawyers. There is a constant need for skills development. However, the report also contains a new proposal to get a plaintiff at an early stage in the process, right from the start. I believe that it is very important to be able to cope with this process all the way out and thus also be able to clear up more crimes.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-192	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Johansson a question. A year ago Anton Lundin Pettersson joined the school Kronan in Trollhättan. Three people were murdered. Anton was driven by far-right views and felt that immigrants and refugees were the greatest threat. In 2014, 1.4 per cent of Sweden's population were exposed to xenophobic hate crimes. 2015 was the record year, with most police reported hate crimes ever. H crime is not a criminal offence but a collective name of several different crimes where the motive is hatred and prejudice against a group of people. It may be a swastika in a synagogue or a woman who is mocked for wearing a veil. Unfortunately, hate crimes are increasing, and racist environments urge their followers to move from words to actions.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-195	Mr President, I would like to I believe that it is very much a question of improving prevention. I think that both the school and the rest of the adult world have an enormous responsibility. I also think that we, as political representatives, have a huge responsibility. It is, for example, about the tone we have when we debate things like this with each other, but also about the tone we use online. It is so incredibly easy to pace up the levels gradually in social media, and then you can drag with you some individuals who can suddenly view it as something natural to keep that way. I think this is extremely important. Among other things, we are now preparing a bill that deals with online hate speech and will provide better regulatory opportunities to address the types of violations that may exist and that plague the political discussion.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-198	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Johansson for his answer. For a long time, the Crime Prevention Council has pointed out that there is a need for consistency in hate crimes throughout the legal chain and for a compilation of how courts judge, which police and prosecutors should be able to take part in the proper investigation of hate crimes.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-201	Mr President, I would like to I believe, above all, that we need to improve the skills development of both prosecutors and police officers who receive the reports. I also believe that the new police organisation can be a positive part of such a development. It has meant that we have easier control over the whole organisation. Now we know that there are many things going in place before it works properly, but I think it's an important piece of the puzzle.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-202	Mr President, I would like to The Government of Ibrahim Baylan is the Minister of Coordination of the Government and has been given a special responsibility to coordinate the Government's efforts in alienated areas. This is an important and delicate task, perhaps the government's most difficult, according to Lena Mellin in Aftonbladet. In Sweden we have 53 areas that are classified by the police as vulnerable areas. 15 of them are particularly vulnerable and have very serious concerns. By now, the whole House knows what it is about: low socio-economic status, criminal influence on the structure of society, difficulties for the police and rescue services to fulfil their missions and so on. There is a need for action. I was very pleased that this would now be coordinated. Then I have looked at the website and tried to follow what the government has done. I didn't find anything. What has the Government done specifically to increase coordination and to combat the difficulties we see in vulnerable areas around Sweden?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-206	Mr President, I would like to I thank Beatrice Ask for a very important question. True, the police have identified a number of areas, as Beatrice Ask says. I myself grew up in one of these 15 areas and can illustrate some of the challenges that exist. Unfortunately, this is nothing new but has been going on for some time. I think it is important in the short term that we ensure that the police and the legislation are strengthened. This allows us to take action and prosecute those who commit crimes, whether it is about burning cars or other types of grosser crimes. But we also have a number of other measures, such as strengthening schools, strengthening the labour market, strengthening civil society and strengthening public services. Beatrice Ask has been looking, and that's good. But she didn't really have to look very long. Already this summer, I presented a series of measures with the Prime Minister. These measures recur in the budget submitted by the Government and to be discussed here in the Riksdag. It is simply a long-term effort to break this trend.
i-UUsarqLrY8MwAcRjUJ5mab	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I have read the general wordings contained in the budget and other things. But my question was: what concrete efforts has the Minister of Coordination made to ensure that we now have coordinated work in each area? For a long time, many local and national authorities have done both. But it hasn't been enough. I am absolutely convinced that there is a need for structured, long-term and determined work focused on each area. I want to know what's being done.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-210	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Beatrice Ask that it must first be long-term. While the budget is being discussed, we agree with the resources allocated to appointing a delegation. It will work and conclude agreements with all these municipalities and areas. Mr President, I would like to If I were to make a wish, I would like to see a greater consensus between the political blocs. That would be helpful. Many of the measures taken in the past have been of a project nature and too short. Even if they've been good, they've disappeared. I would like to see greater cross-block cooperation here.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-212	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister Anna Johansson. This morning, a seminar was held in the Riksdag on a bridge over Gullmarn where representatives from Lysekil's municipality and business were present. This is a project that the Government knows well after its visit to Lysekil earlier this year. It is about replacing Sweden's second busiest ferry line with a bridge instead and a fixed link. This would reduce travel times, strengthen and develop the labour market region and also enable businesses to cope with the necessary skills provision. An example in Lysekil right now is a large expansion for Preem where they plan to hire many people. A larger labour market region is then needed. Former Minister of Infrastructure Åsa Torstensson from the Center Party managed to include two what was called impossible bridge projects in the National Action Plan by applying creative thinking and fee financing. My question to the Government is therefore: can we expect this bridge project to be included in the national action plan?
i-PLmPfHfy2j2mT1woEFYt9v	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Fredrik Christensson! About a week ago, the Government presented an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag with a focus and framework for the next planning period. This is a significantly increased level of ambition compared to the current plan. This, of course, will increase the conditions for both essential maintenance on the railways in particular and the possibility of new investments that we also need in the transport infrastructure system. On the other hand, which individual items will be prioritised in the national plan, the government will return to 2018 after the Swedish Transport Administration has made the usual action plan that weighs different social benefits against each other. It is an extremely important process that should not be anticipated.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-218	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister is well aware, the project in Lysekil is not about additional money or new funds. It is about being able to use the funds currently used for the operation and maintenance of the ferries and be able to pass them over to finance a bridge project. In Sweden we have a regulation that says that you can only use 20– 25 years of operating money while in our neighbouring country Norway, for example, you have the double time. It is clear that it enables completely new projects. My supplementary question is: Is the government prepared to change the regulation letter to the Swedish Transport Administration on this issue?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-220	Mr President, I would like to It is not something that we have taken a stand on at this stage. It is still the case that the investments to be made must be weighed against each other in socio-economic terms. Even if it is a matter of operating funds that would then be transferred to an investment, it is not really the same kind of budgetary technology. It is not possible to deal with this issue quite simply. The investments we make should be balanced from the point of view of taxpayers.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-221	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Åsa. Today, the Social Services Act will provide a clear framework law. Over seventy major changes have been made to the law over the years. As a result, the law has become more difficult to understand and more detailed. In addition, there have been some 180 regulations and implementation plans stacked on each other. This creates uncertainty and uncertainty in the application of the law. My question is: will the Minister work towards a complete overhaul of the Social Services Act?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-224	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. My answer is yes. I certainly would like to do that for the reasons you mention here. It is important to have a modern social services law that serves citizens in vulnerable situations and does so in the most effective way possible. That is why I will come back with an investigation directive.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-225	Mr President, I would like to It was a positive response from Åsa Regnér. I haven't heard that before. This has been discussed and expressed in a newspaper on 1 December and said that discussion is still ongoing. It is positive that this is being looked at as soon as possible. Uncertainty causes a lot to the social secretaries and also to the clients. I take a positive view of that.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-226	Mr President, I would like to It takes a long time because it is a comprehensive piece of legislation. But it is important to do so in order for it to work as well as possible.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-228	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Anna Johansson. For many years, the Stockholm region has had problems with its commuter trains. One of the reasons is congestion, another is a long-term lack of maintenance. In the region, the need for a functioning work commuting is large and growing, not least because of the population increase. Moreover, this is not just a Stockholm problem. The County Administrative Board has observed large commuting flows from both Uppsala County and Södermanland County.
i-NJdKBqz8zZS7XZzdx7EKzT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for the question! Rail maintenance is one of the most priority issues that we are working on during our term of office for very obvious reasons. We have already contributed 1.34 billion a year to railway maintenance. A large proportion of this money is spent in metropolitan areas because it is there that the real bottlenecks and the major problems are to a large extent present. With the infrastructure bill that the government has now submitted to Parliament, the maintenance funds will increase further by 47 per cent compared to the current framework. This is an important addition, and a significant proportion of it is likely to land in the metropolitan and Stockholm areas.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-233	Mr President, I would like to I don't have any follow-up questions. I am pleased and happy with the wise answer and hope that the commuter trains will go better.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-235	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to make a little clarification. When the law on border controls was introduced, only the Swedish Democrats supported the Government's proposal. The Swedish Democrats, for their part, had tougher proposals than the government. On the other side, there were parties who wanted milder proposals or no border controls at all. Among the parties that wanted to have a milder legal support for border controls were the Moderates, who suggested that Sweden should open its borders again from June 21 this summer. This can be read in reservation 5 of Report 2015/ 16:JuU24. The current situation in our world and in Europe does not seem to provide any guarantee that an open-heart and open-border policy would not repeat the chaos that occurred last autumn. Will the government continue with our internal border controls, Morgan Johansson? If the European Commission does not want us to do so, will the government turn its back on the EU and open our borders at the risk of further mass immigration?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-238	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, the Swedish Government signed the letter that went to the Commission requesting an opportunity to extend the border controls that are currently in operation. We will come back to the question of how to deal with the possibility that arises. There's a couple of things we need to look at. One is the situation in Germany and how many unregistered asylum seekers remain there. The second is the situation in the Öresund area. We know that border controls and ID controls have led to some problems in the Öresund area. That preparation and that analysis will continue. I can assure Adam Marttinen and everyone else that we on our part intend to ensure that we take responsibility for all the 163 000 who came last year. For us to do so, we cannot again end up in a situation where there would be 8 000 – 10 000 a week. I can't. Then we must have the levels we can manage to continue.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-241	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Morgan Johansson! When it comes to border controls, the government should know that there is support from the Swedish Democrats in all the steps leading towards a more regulated approach. I hope that the government not only does what it feels is necessary but does what it needs to do to ensure public order and internal security in our country, and that, even if it does, would mean that we are making enemies of, for example, the European Commission.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-242	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal that separates the government and the Swedish Democrats. One thing is the whole entrance to the question. We want to take as much responsibility as we can for the global refugee crisis. The Swedish Democrats have never wanted to do that. You have never wanted to receive any immigrants, and those in Sweden often spread both prejudices and misconceptions about. You are engaged in a propaganda that I deeply dislike. We take responsibility for Sweden and for doing this.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-244	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Baylan. It has a bit of the same theme as Beatrice Ask's question earlier. Last week in Folkbladet we could read about an incident where a police officer in Navestad outside Norrköping was overpowered by a gang of young people who had locked the policeman's arms and thrown glowing cigarette butts at him. The police admits that the policeman could well have been subjected to greater violence or could even have been deprived of his service weapon during the incident. Nevertheless, the police choose not to file a report because they consider the penalty value of the suspected offence of assault against officials to be too low. Unfortunately, this is too common a picture of the situation of so-called blue light personnel in our suburbs. We have for some time seen the harassment of fire brigades and ambulance staff. Now the police seem to be facing the same fate. We Christian Democrats have called for legislation in this area to be tightened up and for the penalty value for offences against blue-light personnel to be increased.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-248	Mr President, I would like to I answer the question because the criminal law protection of bluelight personnel is precisely the legislation for which I am responsible. I am pleased to see Stefan Svanström that we are currently in the process of drafting an investigation directive to review the criminal law protection of blue light personnel. There may also be a few additional categories of staff that may be eligible. This could be about those who work in social services and additional types of staff. We are not quite finished yet, but we are well on the way with such an investigation directive. Such a review will therefore come in the near future.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-251	Mr President, I would like to That's a good news. We look forward to the proposal once it is put on Parliament's table. Unfortunately, this is not a unique event. This follows a pattern in which the police are becoming less and less inclined to prosecute crimes of a minor nature. For a long time in the media there has been a report on so-called everyday crimes that is routinely closed. The police's times for dealing with even more serious crimes are getting longer. At the same time, we know from research that almost all serious crime has been preceded by petty crimes. If we do not prosecute the small crimes, there will simply be more serious criminals over time, and more victims. What will the government do to ensure that we have zero tolerance for violations of blue light personnel and that every crime, small and large, is prosecuted in the way we have decided here in the Swedish Parliament?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-254	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the high-profile car fires at the end of the summer, I and the Minister for the Interior presented a series of measures to tackle this. A revision of the said legislation was part of that, but we also intend to make proposals on new penalties for young people. I also believe that we need better crime prevention in many of the areas we are talking about, and we will come up with a new action plan for the whole of this preventive work this autumn.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-257	Mr President, I would like to I'll put my question to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. It is about small-scale hydroelectric plants. Many of them are now threatened with closure due to both expensive and complicated licensing tests. The Parliament has made an announcement that we will facilitate the permit trials. The Energy Agreement clearly states that we should simplify them. The rules for the re-evaluation of water activities such as hydroelectric power stations and dams should be simplified as far as possible. ..................................................... Many of the small-scale hydroelectric plants are now under threat. Some of them are over 200 years old. There are various activities – mills, power plants and others – that are threatened with closure because of this.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-261	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Sten Bergheden says: This is part of the energy settlement that the government has met with three parties of the Riksdag, including the Moderates. The basis for the whole problem is a 2012 judgment of the Chamber of Appeal, which was also followed by the fact that the former bourgeois government commissioned the County Administrative Board to follow it up. It turned out that many of the smaller hydroelectric plants lacked modern permits. This has, of course, made a mess, and it has become burdensome in relation to the electricity produced by the power plants. That is why we had this in the energy negotiations, and that is also why we have agreed to try to find a regulatory framework that will simplify things but at the same time cope with the modern environmental requirements that we have to meet. The government, supported by the energy agreement, will present a proposal next year in which, as far as possible, we are trying to facilitate, while at the same time setting modern environmental requirements.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-264	Mr President, I would like to The reason is simply that both the Riksdag and the Energy Agreement have seen that this is not working. That is why we want to have a simpler authorisation test, and it is up to the government to deal with this issue. My questions are: When will this come? Will the government give new regulatory letters to the County Administrative Board that there will be a new directive in this part? Or will we wait until the small-scale hydroelectric power plants are completely closed in Sweden?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-266	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Sten Bergheden is engaged. But one might wonder what you did during the time you were in government, for this is not a new challenge. This has been going on for three years, and we've been dealing with it. I don't think it's possible for me as a minister to go in there and infuse them, as it's called, that is, to put me in a judgment. On the other hand, we have made it clear in the energy agreement that we intend to come back with new legislation relating to both European law and modern environmental requirements, making it as little burdensome administratively and economically as possible. We will come back to that next year.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-268	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. It applies to the penalty discount for 18 to 21-year-olds. Every day we read about gangs of young people who commit serious crimes. Last couple of days ago, an 85-year-old man was attacked by three young men who beat him up and kicked his ass. This is terrible. On Monday we visited Malmö and talked to the police there. Those who burn cars and throw stones at policemen are usually between 17 and 21 years old. The government has announced that it will tighten the penalties for attacks on bluelight personnel, as the Minister said here. At the same time, they give a 50% discount to young professionals. These are double signals. We Moderates want to remove the penalty discount. We think this is completely wrong. We think that adults should be judged as adults. Does the Government believe that it is reasonable for an 18-year-old adult to receive a 50% discount when he commits serious violent crime?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-272	Mr President, I would like to If the Moderates now think this is something they have come up with recently. After all, you sat in the Justice Department for eight years and did nothing on the matter – not even what we are doing now. We are proposing new sanctions for young people, as I mentioned in my previous speech. This applies, for example, to those who cannot be sentenced to youth service but where fines would not work either. We say that we are prepared to go forward with what is called weekend separation, that is to say, that you get supervision during weekends and in the evenings. It is an intermediate sanction that has not existed before. Contact obligation towards a contact person is another such sanction as we further plan. You should keep your tongue right in the mouth when it comes to things. I think you have to make sure that the younger a person is, the more you can step up the penalty if the person continues to commit crimes.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-275	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Alliance government did a lot in its eight years, but we didn't have time for everything. Unfortunately, he didn't get us with this. Morgan Johansson often says we didn't do anything. But now it is actually Morgan Johansson who is Minister of Justice, and he has been for over two years. My question is: Does Johansson think it is reasonable that an 18-year-old professional criteria should receive a 50% discount on punishment?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-277	Mr President, I would like to Every penalty measure, and ultimately it is the courts that make it, should of course take into account the severity of the crime. Then one must also see what is most appropriate for the individual concerned. For some of these individuals, other sanctions may be best. It is ultimately a question of ensuring that they come out of crime and their criminal life-style. Then I think that we need social measures, but sometimes we also need detention. The proposals we put forward are precisely about that.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-279	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Åsa. Swedish elderly care often works very well, and most elderly people are satisfied with the efforts they receive. This is shown not least by the user survey that came from the National Board of Health and Welfare last week. At the same time, there are many elements that we must continue to work on if our Swedish model is to continue to develop. Since the 1990s, municipalities, not least my own hometown Linköping, have developed models for so-called simplified aid assessment in elderly care. It has turned out that it will be easier to get help, you will have more influence and it will free up resources for the social secretaries. But IVO has shown that models that exist around the country are illegal. I know that the Government has done a lot of work on this and I think it is an important issue in the government. I wonder how the work on this is progressing and whether the government is planning some changes to enable the municipalities to give so-called simplified aid assessment.
i-FxxWTrAdX4tUVNED34gBu	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson! This is indeed a priority for the government, and that is why we have allocated a great deal of resources to this sector: EUR 2 billion to staff in the care of the elderly and EUR 10 billion to the municipalities which, of course, can also use funds for the care of the elderly in this context. This year we also have an investment in skills development of 200 million to this sector, among other things. The reason for this is that one should of course have older people's needs at the centre and be able to support older women and men where they are and in what they need. I agree that the model of simplified aid assessments is interesting. There seems to be very good experience with it, but the legal situation is unclear. That is why I have taken the initiative on two different tracks, and we will have proposals on this early this spring.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-285	Mr President, I would like to That sounds positive. Simplified aid assessment allows people to have access to assistance interventions without aid decisions and also to influence these decisions themselves, which is A and O in the development of elderly care. It is good that the investigation should look at this issue. I believe that the Government is keen to be able to move forward on this issue as early as in 2017. There are many of us in this House who think that the issue is urgent, and we give it priority.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-287	Mr President, I would like to I agree and will come back to you with suggestions in this area.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-289	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the government presented its infrastructure bill which states that it wants to build new high-speed rail lines. The project is very socio-economically unprofitable, lacks major climate benefits and costs SEK 230 billion. It has caused the Moderates to pull the brakes and state that this is not a responsible project. But the government should put the shovel on the ground cost whatever it wants. And high-speed lanes cost. It is about twice as expensive as ordinary railway, which means that countless billions of dollars will have to be taken from other projects around Sweden where it is already crowded and worn out.
i-J6fjsGsvz52DPQjauZ9du3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! As stated in the bill, the Government points out an ambition that we intend to build high-speed roads in Sweden for the simple reason that we believe it is high time that we entered the transport infrastructure of the future in this country. Short travel times create new opportunities for enlarged labour market regions, and we tie in places that currently do not have access to the rail network and make the railways more attractive while providing new and absolutely necessary capacity. The bill also states very clearly that this should be done at the rate allowed by the economy and in a way that does not crowd out other urgent objects, i.e. that the priority of this extension should take place within the same framework for action plans as other objects. With this, we are both forward-looking and, at the same time, responsible in terms of the means at our disposal.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-295	Mr President, I would like to I find it sad that the Swedish parliament or for that matter all people around Sweden cannot get a serious proposal from the government on how to fund an investment of 230 billion. It does not take so much mathematics to realize that things have to go together, i.e. other needs must reasonably be pushed away if you decide to make this investment. Or is the Minister for Infrastructure's answer that there will be no new high-speed lines in the coming planning period?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-296	Mr President, I would like to I think most people agree that no new high-speed lines will be completed in the next planning period. Even the most ambitious and optimistic assessors don't think so. What we are facing is that we need new capacity for the railways. Then we can choose to build it with new, modern technology with new extensions, which brings many new benefits, or with old technology in existing distances and significantly fewer benefits. We're proposing the last one.
i-VD1WX4UfRN57cZcxaWcTNv	Mr. Speaking Man! I have a question for the Minister for Children, the Elderly and Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. The future gender equality policy will shortly be presented. From what I understand, there will be a clear and increased focus on prevention and on the responsibility and participation of men and boys. How does the Government intend to ensure that this actually happens? Historically, gender equality work has mainly been carried out by individual women and women's organisations and associations. As far as the area of men's violence against women is concerned, we have mainly devoted ourselves at the level of society to dealing with the consequences of men's violence, which is obvious in the Swedish model, and we provide increased support for women's shelters, for example. But back to my question. What is it that will now make a difference?
i-2ptGhPBVnSbocCQHk3wZEE	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Patrik Engström! I am very keen on this, that is to have an increased focus on preventing violence against women and, in general, to focus in gender equality policy on the role of men and boys in gender equality work and also to create a conversation and dialogue in which men and boys feel that they have a role and feel invited to this conversation. This is, by the way, an issue that people are talking about all over the world. I was in Luxembourg on Monday at an EU meeting where this was discussed, in particular men and care and care. In the letter that I will present in three four weeks' time, I will have the ambition to use the good knowledge that we already have in Sweden when it comes to working with men and boys and gender equality work and preventing violence. Connecting these projects to more of a national programme is essential to take the next step in gender equality policy.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Can Regnér give an example of measures that it intends to take?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-308	Mr President, I would like to There is already in Sweden knowledge and organisations that work a lot on these issues. We have also given assignments to the Swedish Agency for Education and the Swedish Children's Ombudsman, we have an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council and we have a package aimed at unaccompanied minors and new arrivals, especially boys and men, about knowledge, about gender equality and about participation in gender equality work and how to prevent violence. These missions that we laid out even when we took office together will form the basis for a national programme to strengthen this work. How this is to be done will be concrete in the letter.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-311	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask my question to Ibrahim Baylan. Between 2010 and 2016, the electricity price increased by 38 per cent for Vattenfall and Ellevio, two of the largest players. It did not increase as much for Eon, and for the rest it increased about 16 per cent. The Nils Holgersson report is produced every year to see how much the price is increasing, and this applies not only to electricity but also to water, waste and heat. There has been an increase of 4% in just one year. Much of this increase is due to the increase in electricity prices, which has taken place over several years. The Energy Market Inspectorate shall have control over the increases in electricity prices. Unfortunately, however, this has not worked – they are now also in conflict and have lost in court. Is it possible to regulate the price of electricity in any way, so that one can decide in advance, for example from the Swedish Energy Market Authority, how much the increase in electricity prices can be?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-315	Mr President, I would like to Just for the sake of clarity: electricity prices have fallen since 2010. They have almost halved or even more. However, electricity grid prices have been raised, as Hillevi Larsson says. The basis for this is a court of appeal that gave these companies, against the Swedish Energy Market Authority, the right to raise prices. When you have a monopoly, as these companies have, it is clear that it is a particular responsibility. We had a regulation in 2011 that regulated this. It was a regulation that proved not to be valid in court. This regulation has been re-established. I have also explained that the government is prepared to take further steps to ensure that consumers are protected and that there is a balance between reasonable yield requirements, investment needs and consumers' need for a stable supply of electricity.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-317	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your comment. That's not all that's increased, fortunately. But it is bad enough that the electricity grid price has increased and that it is such a big increase. The Energy Market Inspectorate firmly believed that it was too much, but unfortunately they lost. However, we can determine politically what framework we want. I think it is important to ensure that there are not so great differences. It is therefore 3 300 SEK that a family pays more per year if they have the m who have increased the most. It doesn't make sense.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-319	Mr President, I would like to Hillevi Larsson raises a very important issue, especially as it is a natural monopoly we are talking about. The regulatory framework has since been revised. Now it will be tried again in court. And we will give a mandate to the Energy Market Inspectorate to propose further changes that will ensure a better balance than we currently have between reasonable returns, investment needs and ensuring that electricity reaches consumers. If you look at the increases in electricity grid charges, you can see that they are significantly higher than the general...
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-322	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to both ministers Johansson, but I think it will be Anna Johansson who gets the question. It concerns the establishment of new routes and the possible border controls that need to be carried out at an airport when a new route is set up. When I visited the border police in Malmö on Monday, it was mentioned that there have been problems in Region S yd with the establishment of new routes, for example from Växjö airport down to the Balkans. There is now a new mode for asylum seekers to get to Sweden. It may then be that the police are not in a position to establish border control at those airports when the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority authorises a new route. My question to Anna Johansson is therefore whether the police should have some kind of veto right in connection with the start of new routes at olika airports around the country.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The regulation currently in force in the area of ID checks – it concerns the Öresund region – concerns boats, trains and buses. There is currently no legal support for id checks on board flights or for boarding on flights. Nor is such a regulation being prepared in the Government Office. But of course we have also been reached by the reports that show that there is an increased activity when it comes to flights and to get to Sweden by air. We must, of course, follow closely the extent and extent of this problem.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-326	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. This is precisely the case for checks on passports and identity documents at airports where new routes are being set up. So it is not border controls to the extent that we might see precisely in the Öresund region. But there are new routes into the country. It must be borne in mind when new air connections are approved. The police should have an opportunity to comment on whether they can actually check identity documents and passports.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-327	Mr President, I would like to Yes, what lies within my remit is what the companies carrying out the trips are doing, i.e. ID checks on boarding. There is no legal support today to do this at airports. On the other hand, a tour operator has the right to control the clay identification documents and to board those who have bought tickets. So there is such a possibility. On the other hand, the police are not able to carry out such checks with the legal support that is currently available for identity checks.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-328	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Anna Johansson. It's about broadband. Access to stable broadband at high speed is a prerequisite for people to be able to run companies around the country and work and study remotely. Therefore, the Christian Democrats invest SEK 50 million more than the government in 2017 – 2020 in broadband expansion. In order for Sweden to reach the target of at least 90 per cent of all households and businesses having access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second by 2020, unnecessary barriers must be removed. I have been exercising about the possibility of allowing municipal networks to cross the municipal border with their activities. It has received support from the Bredband investigation. My question is: will the government present such a proposal for change and, if so, when?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-331	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is now, as the honourable Member pointed out, a normal demand for modern living that we have access to broadband. It has been worked on both under the previous government and under that government. That work has intensified. In addition, we have greatly strengthened the support for broadband in the budget that Parliament has to deal with. There are a large number of proposals. We will, of course, prepare them and will return to the Riksdag after the usual preparation.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-333	Mr President, I would like to Many municipalities now round the localisation principle by setting up joint ventures. But the legislation is still in place. Many municipalities want to cooperate with the neighbouring municipality but cannot and must not in any other way than by creating companies. Would it not be reasonable for urban networks, like municipal energy companies, to be exempted from this obstacle of crossing the municipal border? That's my question.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-334	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important question! It would be easy to answer yes to that question in the individual case. But we know it's more complicated than that. For a large number of years we have had a discussion about how to use the resources of our own municipality, for example in school activities. The principle is that you control the area that is the municipality's. I think there may be reason to look at this. As you point out, there are exceptions.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-335	Mr President, I would like to My question is about the government's departure from skills and quality. Sis, Statens institutionstyrelsen, is a state authority that conducts compulsory care. It is about the care and treatment of young people with serious psychosocial problems and adults with substance abuse problems. Sis also receives young people who have been sentenced to closed youth care. The left-wing government often talks about quality in welfare but acts on the contrary. I can only say that you save 541 000 SEK on the National Board of Institutional Affairs in Category 9, health, health and social care. It has also supported the introduction of exceptions in terms of competence requirements and quality requirements for employees. This is very worrying. What does the Government intend to do to ensure quality and not to reduce it?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-337	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Sis's business is a very important one for young people in tough situations who need care just within the framework of Sis. Sis is also in a tough position, not least because of the major refugee crisis that has also affected Sis' operations. Requirements for the competence of the personnel at Sis and other similar institutions are regulated by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations, and Sis has generally chosen to employ staff with higher skills. At the moment, they have a capacity problem and have had to lower these requirements in order to find staff at all. It's troubling, and we're following this in conversation with Sis. We've set aside $40 million from the government, and we're gonna...
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-340	Mr President, I would like to It is worrying that skills requirements are being reduced. These are people who work with children with many needs, children who have also been betrayed by society in many different ways. So you are in favour of reducing the demands on those employed. One year ahead is that you do not need to have any post-secondary education to work in Sis's operations. I think this is serious and worrying. What concrete follow-up will the Government make possible to measure and monitor this?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-342	Mr President, I would like to These are the decisions that the authority makes. We follow the issue and have a close dialogue with Sis on this. This is a vulnerable area, and if the previous government had invested more in social care for children and young people, and even in this area, these different bodies would not have been in the tough position they are doing. Now we need to support them, and 40 million for this operation is one such step. We also have a close dialogue. Of course, authorities must meet the requirements of, for example, the National Board of Health and Welfare.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-344	Mr President, I would like to The government was asked in March of this year to sign a letter to the Commission, together with a number of EU countries, calling for the planned Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to comply with the principles of the EU Energy Union and to comply with EU law. Unfortunately, the government did not want to sign this letter and then missed the opportunity to show momentum and act against the project. Management risks becoming a serious security threat to Europe. They make us more dependent on Russian gas, and there is also a risk that we in Sweden will allow the Russian state to enter sensitive areas. In addition, the government rejected the request without any preparation being made with other relevant ministries such as the Ministry of Defence, the Departments of Trikes and Industry. My question goes to the Minister for Coordination Ibrahim Baylan: should the question not have been prepared with the relevant ministries before the Council of State Committee said no?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-347	Mr President, I would like to Basically, this is about the new gas pipeline. There's already a gas pipeline going there, Nord Stream 1. The application for it was approved by the previous government after usual treatment. Of course we have a discussion between the various departments in this regard. We have also raised our concerns in talks with the Commission, including myself personally, about the compatibility with the two market packages on which the European Union agrees, but also with the Energy Union, which was in fact an initiative in response to the problems encountered with Russian gas. This was an attempt to diversify the sources of European energy. We ourselves have very little gas in our energy system and are not as dependent on it. Of course, we have an ongoing dialogue with different departments, and we have also expressed in talks with the Commission the concerns we have regarding compatibility with the rules that apply in the European Union.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-350	Mr President, I would like to At this point, it is not enough to be concerned. Russian energy policy is an important instrument of security policy; it is clearly stated by Russia. We have a long tradition of broad defence policy agreements here in Sweden, especially on issues of great foreign policy importance. Does the Minister of Coordination not think that this is a matter of great foreign policy importance that should be anchored both within the government and with the opposition?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-352	Mr President, I would like to We are dealing with this issue in exactly the same way as the previous government dealt with it, that is, once we have received an application from the consortium, we will deal with it in accordance with the laws, regulations and conventions in force. In addition, we see that there are challenges and problems with the project, not least with regard to the Energy Union that we have been working with within the EU for a couple of years. We have presented this to the European Union in a number of ways. It is not just a question of writing letters, but it is also possible to present them in dialogue.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-354	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Åsa. The Government has, among other things, stated in the Government Declaration that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child will become Swedish law. Some referrals are sceptical, while others feel that this is the way forward to strengthen children's legal position. In what way does Minister of Children Åsa Regnér think it will benefit children in Sweden that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is made law?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-357	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We are now compiling these referrals that came in this weekend. I look forward to that compilation to read the often ambitious answers that are there. The reason why the government wants to do this is, of course, that we put children's rights and children's lives at the centre. There are a number of very important issues here – that children are treated equally, that it should not matter what the parents' wallet looks like, and that similar decisions are also made across the country. There is much that needs to be strengthened in relation to children's rights. We have looked quite a lot at the Norwegian example where you have done the same, although you have a different system. There we see that, on the one hand, other legislation reflects the Convention on the Rights of the Child even more, and, on the other hand, that decision-makers and political decisions take into account children's rights to a much greater extent than in the past. We believe that this is a desirable development.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. But does it not take more than legislation to strengthen children's rights, especially since the wording of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is rather vague and imprecise?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-361	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it takes solid work on children's rights to consolidate the position of children. Unfortunately, Sweden is one of the countries where the gap has increased most between families with children in recent years in terms of the economic situation. Sweden has recently been examined by the UN, which points out, among other things, but also other issues, such as the different assessment of the rights of disabled children in different municipalities and so on. So we need to work with different types of efforts, and we also need to increase knowledge and information.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-365	Mr President, I would like to The other day, Minister Anna Johansson explained her view that the Gothenburg railway line – Borås should not be dimensioned for speeds up to 320 kilometres an hour and thus not become a full high-speed track. About 30 minutes ago, the Government answered a question from its colleague Jessica Rosencrantz and said that no high-speed tracks will be completed during the next planning period. The reason you don't want to drive to Borås in full 320 kilometres an hour is probably because you want to save money. There is currently a project on a national plane called Ostlinken, which is currently supposed to run at 320 kilometres per hour and be completed during the next planning period. My question to the Government is: Is her response an opening to reduce the speed of the Ostlink and therefore, according to the Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration, reduce costs by up to 20 billion?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-369	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for the question! I have not said that we should not build a high-speed road between Gothenburg and Borås. I have said that it would be crazy to build the route Mölnlycke – Bollebygd without having any idea what the whole Gothenburg – Borås should look like. That's what I said, and I stand by it. The cheese link is on schedule. Precisely at what speeds you should be able to drive on that track and on other tracks is primarily a technical issue that I leave with a warm hand to Trafikverket. On the other hand, it is important that we build with a technology that allows for a high-speed runway expansion overall for the entire system. What I said on the previous question was that the whole system will not be completed within the next planning period, and I do not think that any human being, as I have heard, believes in any case, is possible.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-372	Mr President, I would like to We can go back to the Minutes and see what the Government actually said. What is interesting here is that with a warm hand she almost removes the influence over a difference of SEK 20 billion for an investment project to Trafikverket to determine the speeds. It's a big delegation. I had hoped for a bit more robust control of the Swedish Transport Agency from the Government, but she might be able to clarify that as well.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-374	Mr President, I would like to I'd love to. The Government's ambition is to complete a high-speed rail system in Sweden. But what speed is most appropriate on different routes to reach the travel times that are suggested here, I leave with a warm hand. It's a technology choice. The Finnish Transport Agency will of course make the most profitable trade-offs in economic terms. This means that on certain routes you may not have to drive in 320. I do not think we should make political decisions on this.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-376	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. Millions of people are fleeing the world from wars, conflicts and difficult situations. The Swedish Government has taken a great responsibility, wants to take a big responsibility and has been the driving force for the EU to jointly take greater joint and several responsibility for the reception of refugees. The idea is to create a fair system that safeguards people's right to seek asylum. That's good. I have the following question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson on the fact that there are now discussions in the EU. What are the possibilities for joint and solidarity-based reception of refugees?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-379	Mr President, I would like to It's a difficult negotiation. We have had a first discussion on the seven legislative acts of the European Commission which are now on the table of the Council of Ministers. We can see that there are great tensions. I think it's possible to get there, but not this year, but maybe sometime in the next six months. There's a lot at stake. It is also about fundamental values in the European Union. I sometimes draw parallels when the United States abolished racial laws in the 1960s. Then there were some southern states that wouldn't accept blacks in white schools, and Washington wouldn't care. Now there are some leaders in the European Union who say that they do not want to receive Muslims, and Brussels should not care about that. The question of what values the EU should be guided by is at stake. The government is on the side that everyone...
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-383	Mr President, I would like to I understand that what will determine whether or not we get an agreement is what Minister Johansson is talking about. Is that so?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-384	Mr President, I would like to That's it. There are those who say that Europe should only be a single market. We say that Europe must also be based on common values. Among other things, it is a matter of living up to international conventions. All EU countries are bound by the Geneva Convention. Everyone is bound to take responsibility for the global refugee crisis, but in some places there is a tendency to play out different groups against each other. That is very worrying. However, I believe that we will still move forward in this area.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-385	Mr President, I would like to The IB programme is an international high school programme offered in 138 countries around the world, including some thirty schools in Sweden. It is an excellent education if you want to continue studying abroad and also for further studies in Sweden. Instead of national exams, IB training will hold examinations at the end of grade 3 which will be corrected externally. It ensures legal certainty and makes grade inflation impossible. The Swedish Council for Higher Education has recently reviewed the regulations on basic eligibility and selection. Following that review, the proposal is that leaving certificates for students studying on the IB programme and the European School should be valued less than today when applying to universities and higher education institutions. Is the government and Minister Ibrahim Baylan behind the decision?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for an important question! I basically share the view of the education itself. Furthermore, as former school ministers, I have had the opportunity to visit a great deal of the education that exists in the country, and I can testify not only to good quality education but also to motivated students who have made the choice because they think it is positive for them. Now there has been a proposal to the government, and the government will prepare this matter in exactly the same way as we usually do before we come back with proposals.
i-8PtHb5XrgUUEic2UR64FHZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ibrahim Baylan, for your answer! Current IB students chose the line under the premise of applying to Swedish universities on existing systems. The proposal drastically complicates the circumstances under which students apply for planned university courses. Does Ibrahim Baylan think that it is fair and reasonable to destroy an alternative which today offers a broad and internationally recognised good education?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-393	Mr President, I would like to I have a long experience in school matters. My experience is that it is unfortunately happening on and off, especially when there are changes in the education system, that there is a gap. This happened when the previous government made changes in school teams and secondary education, and it would also happen if there were such a change in this case. But the proposal itself is currently being prepared in the Government Office, and the government will come back with proposals if and when we are ready to move forward.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-395	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Johansson. Sweden today has a major problem with illegal lorry traffic. This means that Swedish serious hauliers who pay the right taxes and contractual wages may be at risk of being competed out.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-398	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Andersson for the question. This is an important issue. It is, of course, bearing on the whole labour market with posting directives, that is, the EU is capable of defending workers' rights and workers' opportunities for development. In the field of transport, this is an important issue. Throughout the time I have held the post, the government has been extremely active at EU level and reviewed the legislation in Sweden to see if changes are needed there. Right now, there's a major investigation mission with the Swedish Transport Agency. The government has set aside funds in the budget for next year so that the police will have increased opportunities to control illegal cabotage traffic. Much more is under way, not least in the context of the EU's road transport package coming next year. We intend to be really committed to ensuring that the legislation is as good as possible.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-401	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the answer, so I do not actually have a supplementary question.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-403	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. The Minister for Migration has been attending post-European Union summits over the past year. He has discussed the whole of the EU's migration policy. We can see that few countries follow the decisions that have been taken. A number of decisions have been taken and the refugee crisis is by no means over. Since Sweden is a large recipient country, Sweden should play a leading role in shaping the EU's new asylum and migration policy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Justice and Migration what three concrete successes he has achieved in bringing about a new migration and asylum policy within the Union.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-406	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a leading role in asylum and migration policy, not only in the EU but also globally. Does Ulrika Karlsson think it was a coincidence that Sweden was one of the co-organizers of the great summit that US President Barack Obama organized just a few weeks ago in New York? I was there myself. We were also the smallest country to co-organize, in terms of population size. That's because, as the Americans say, we punch over our weight. That is to say, we are hitting harder, globally and also Europeanly, than our population size justifies. This is also true at European level. Ulrika Karlsson wants to hear about the success. We would never have had a redistribution from Greece and Italy to the rest of the EU if Sweden had not worked for it. We would never have had the decision on a European resettlement programme that is now on the table of the European Union if Sweden had not pushed it forward. We would never have had the seven pieces of legislation that are now there if Sweden had not pushed them forward.
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-409	Mr President, I would like to I can ask my question, because I still want to know three successes in terms of results that make a difference to asylum and migration policy in reality. What three successes has Sweden achieved in the negotiations on a new asylum and migration policy in the EU area?
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-410	Mr President, I would like to I can repeat them. The first is a decision on redistribution. We know that this redistribution continues and is important for Greece and Italy to survive. Then there are some countries that are opposed. We cannot help it if, for example, the Moderates of Hungary do not want to accept any refugees. That is one of the problems we have – to ensure that everyone receives. The second is, as I say, a resettlement framework in which the EU can take responsibility for resettlement directly from refugee camps to...
i-bc5a3950cd8f06eb-414	This concludes Question Time this week. I would like to thank the participating ministers and Members.
