i-3332cf619e423afa-4	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal on Category 10 and therefore also for the government's budget proposal and for the rejection of all motions. The issues covered by Category 10 include health insurance, early retirement, to some extent disability benefits and occupational injury insurance. Sometimes the area is presented as being only about percentages and levels. Nothing could be more wrong than that. Behind the figures are people of flesh and blood, men and women who have suffered from disease. It can be cancer, it can be broken bones, but it can also be fatigue syndrome. In short, this area is about slightly larger than just percentages. It's about what society we want to live in. It is in many respects about the Swedish model. The Swedish model is a concept that is used in different contexts. When I talk about the Swedish model, I think of three things in particular. Firstly, sound finances and a well-acquired but well-designed tax collection. Secondly, a labour market characterised by consensus between employers and workers where collective agreements are the norm and where there is a well-acquired labour market policy that allows you to move from one job to another. Thirdly, well-developed welfare. This could involve heavily tax-subsidised preschools and schools. But it is also about our joint insurance policies. It is joint insurance that protects against illness and unemployment. When one considers this, I would like to say that Category 10 is quite a lot about the heart of the Swedish model. Mr President, I would like to It is common knowledge that all people can suffer from illness. It can happen to me, it can happen to you, it can happen, Gud forbid, Mr. Speaker or why not Minister Strandhäll. With the knowledge that everyone can suffer from illness, we have come to the conclusion that we should have a system based on the idea that it is smarter with common solutions than that each one tries to find a private insurance policy. In short, it is smarter that we jointly solve problems. We also know that countries with robust public insurance and robust welfare systems have higher employment, lower unemployment and also fewer social problems. It can be anything from unwanted teenage pregnancies with all that it can mean to, let's say, criminality. In addition, welfare states have greater social mobility, which is extremely important for those of us who think that politics should contribute to each individual's freedom. With this knowledge, it is natural to like the budget that is on the table here today. It is committed to strengthening compensation for those who have fallen ill. I am thinking, for example, of the increase in the guarantee pension for early retirement. But the budget also invests in money for Försäkringskassan. It is not because we want to spend more money on government agencies, but because the Social Insurance Agency is going to be able to work with the people who are sick to get back to work as well. Mr President, I would like to Sometimes the bourgeoisie argues that the compensations for the sick and the unemployed must come down for people to work. What I do not understand, and what nobody has explained to me, is that, if that is the case, how is it that countries with large general insurance policies are also countries where there is low unemployment and high employment? Here is a battle in Swedish politics. I see one of the challenges in the fact that the former government sometimes sounded like a Social Democratic government in rhetoric, but as a thief at night it weakened our common assurances. This means that today we are faced with a situation where we need to improve our common insurance policies. It is not only good for those who are ill, but it is also good for the labour market as such. That is why, Mr President, it is not by chance that we see unemployment falling today. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, and we have the highest employment rate ever measured by Eurostat in an EU country. I repeat: we have the highest level of employment ever measured by Eurostat in an EU country. If you take stock of what I have just said, Mr President, Category 10 is not just about percentages and figures, but about what society we want to live in in the future. For me, this is a safe, free and fair society. Mr President, I would like to This year, the ceiling was raised in the unemployment fund and thus also the ceiling for the sick who are also unemployed. Despite the improvements made in the last year, there is still a need for strengthening both the unemployment fund and health insurance in terms of both the amount and the ceiling. For general insurance, there are several strong arguments. I have mentioned some of them, but I will mention three more. That is why, Mr President, I believe that it is right, important and necessary to strengthen our common assurances, and that is what this budget does. It's because, as I said, it's more efficient, it's safer people and it's better for jobs. I therefore support the 2017 budget proposal. It is a step towards improving our social insurance policies to meet the challenges we face in the future.
i-3332cf619e423afa-18	Mr President, I would like to I thought it was interesting to listen to Mathias Tegnér. I was happy when you started by taking up sickness and rehabilitation. We had a very thorough discussion and suggestions in the Social Insurance investigation. There we said that we could have removed the far border if we had done much more to strengthen rehabilitation and follow-up in an earlier situation. What have the Social Democrats and the government done to strengthen rehabilitation and follow-up in an earlier situation? We can see that sick leave increases again. This applies to both the short and the long.
i-3332cf619e423afa-20	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Solveig Zander! No one can doubt that this is an issue that you are passionate about. Let me start by saying that increased costs in health insurance are a problem, especially because there are sick people behind the figures. No one should have to doubt that the government has taken strong action against both ill health and increased costs. I'm sure Minister Strandhäll can develop what I'm saying now. One example is the government's action programme. Seven points point out different areas of the labour market that need to be improved in order to reduce sickness rates. I am also thinking of the letter of intent, which states that the social partners have agreed on how to work to create a better working environment for Sweden's employees. I am also thinking of the efforts made on the public sector, namely the 10 welfare billions. When we see where sick leave increases most, in women in the public sector, one of the reasons may be that the former government devoted itself to reducing taxes, which reduced money in the public sector. This policy has been reversed, and we are spending 10 billion on welfare, among other things. No one should have to worry that the government is not working hard to reduce sickness rates. They also work equally hard to make the Swedish labour market better for the people who are there.
i-3332cf619e423afa-25	Mr President, I would like to That's an interesting answer. The Alliance government carried out a rehabilitation reform in the form of a rehabilitation chain that contributed to a tremendous decline in health rates. Now that sickness rates are rising again, Mathias Tegnér says that the government has proposed various measures, but obviously they have not produced results. Not all the points you have proposed have been implemented. In addition, you have broken the agreement not to remove the remote border until all early rehabilitation measures have produced results. You have not waited for the proposals you have made to produce results. It goes out on the people who are currently on sick leave. They don't get their sickness allowance. Sick people are denied sickness benefit. Your proposals have not helped to prevent people from getting caught. Why have you broken the agreement that the border would not be removed until rehabilitation measures, as you claim you have proposed, have produced results?
i-3332cf619e423afa-28	Mr President, I would like to Let's start with history. From 2003, sickness rates have decreased. It is not the case that those who began to decline in 2008 by a magic act when the bourgeoisie introduced the distant parentheses. It is important to have as a starting point for the discussion. Sick leave was already reduced in 2003 and has done so up to 2010. It is a problem that sick leave from 2010 has increased a lot. That is why the government has taken a number of measures. We now see that it is producing results. The forecasts write down the expected costs of health insurance. The measures now being implemented are producing results. Then much more may need to be done, but no one should doubt that a number of things have been done. There we see effect. What I do not understand, Solveig Zander, is why you and other politicians believe that it is precisely the far parentheses that make people healthy. We know that over 100 000 people were insured because of the distant parentheses. Either they were thrown out of the systems and had to seek social assistance or live on the husband, or they were thrown between the systems, which led to concern. Where we get divorced is that I don't think sick people get healthier just because they get poor. Where we also differ is that I do not think we should finance further tax cuts by cutting down on those who are actually sick. It is ill-considered, unwise, and unjust.
i-3332cf619e423afa-32	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our Amendment No 14 to be approved. Sweden should be a strong society that stays together. Those who are ill or injured and unable to work must be entitled to compensation, care and rehabilitation. A person who has or regains his or her work capacity must always receive support and help to get back to work. As sick leave increases significantly, society needs to step up its efforts to better address the risks of exclusion. At the same time as the number of sick people absent is increasing, there is also a change in the nature of the illness. The number of patients started with psychiatric diagnoses is increasing dramatically and is since 2014 the most common reason for sick leave. 95 percent of the cases started with psychiatric diagnoses in 2015 consist of different types of depression and anxiety disorder. From the individual's perspective, sick leave leads to a decline in personal finances, and a long absence from working life often leads to fewer social contacts in everyday life. The exclusion is both economic and social. The effects can also be great in the next generation. Children of parents who are on long-term sick leave tend to be on sick leave themselves far more than others. Community spending on sick leave has increased over several years. The grant for sickness benefit and rehabilitation amounted to SEK 32 billion in 2014. This year they are estimated to be around SEK 42 billion. These amounts can be compared to 2010, when the corresponding costs were SEK 20 1⁄2 billion. For the Moderates, it is therefore self-evident that society's efforts should, as far as possible, focus on helping people back to work. We have presented in our draft budget a series of proposals aimed at this. We want to see a special rehabilitation chain for easy mental diagnoses with previous interventions combined with specialist administrators at Försäkringskassan and a special transition track at Arbetsförmedlingen. We raise the importance of the work environment, and we propose targeted supervision of the psychosocial work environment in groups with a high risk of sick leave. In addition, we propose developed and improved opportunities for prevention, such as a prevention guarantee where a reasonable objective is that those who have a job and are in need of prevention should be able to start it within one month. We believe that it is neither reasonable nor sustainable for the Swedes, who are one of the healthiest peoples in the world, to have so comparatively high sickness absences. Therefore, all parts of health insurance must better support the return to work. At the same time, health insurance must be complemented by better prevention and rehabilitation. Our reform proposals represent important steps to better help people back to work and their own livelihoods than they are today. It lays the foundation for a stronger Sweden where everyone is given the opportunity to come to their right.
i-3332cf619e423afa-41	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Social Security Committee's report 2016/ 17:SfU1 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. This is a large area of expenditure, just like all areas of expenditure in the Social Security Committee. I would like to start by referring to our budget and our specific opinion for a complete picture of what our policy is in this area. I was going to talk about a few specific things. The large group of Swedes outside the labour market is a subject for daily debate. That is the case at all times – unemployment is always a hot potato. It is always important, but it becomes more important as we become fewer to support more. Not infrequently, new jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises. For a smaller company, an unfortunate recruitment can have major consequences today, and this is why one is extra careful when it comes to new employment. You can think what you want about it, but that's the way it is and that's the way it will stay. As long as a sick employee involves a large cost to the company, one is extra careful to hire one. For those who are unemployed and have a history of illness that stands out or has a failing health, the worst result is an increase in the distance from the labour market. The longer the time passes, the greater the distance. In order to stimulate Swedish employment and growth and at the same time create opportunities for these very unemployed to enter the labour market, the Swedish Democrats want to introduce a system that in practice entails the abolition of sick pay liability for up to nine employees, in one so that companies dare to recruit even people who may be on sick leave more than the average. Anyone who knows basic statistics understands that there are quite a few. It seems the government doesn't believe in this at all. It seems to be working just the opposite – that this weak group is instead helped by higher thresholds into the labour market or that employment increases by making it more expensive for companies to hire. In the spring, the government launched a proposal to allow companies to contribute to the cost of long-term sick leave. After heavy criticism they changed the proposal, thank God, to be honest to say. Sloped liability for sick pay for small and medium-sized enterprises would have positive consequences for the group of unemployed I mentioned, for many smaller companies and, of course, for society at large. Mr President, I would like to In recent years we have drawn attention to cases where citizens of other EU countries have benefited from social security as well as municipal support. Sometimes it has even been about people who have no right of residence in Sweden. This is not the idea of free movement within the Union. Freedom of movement is intended to enable citizens of the Union to travel freely for work or pleasure. The EU Member States have all taken on social responsibility for their citizens. This is one of the prerequisites for joining the European Union. One can have very critical views on those countries that treat their own citizens in such a way that they find it attractive to go to other EU countries to beg or seek help from social authorities. Of course, I too have the critical views. But if you think that taking over social responsibility for the citizens of other countries makes it easier to move in the right direction, then you probably think very wrong. Rather, it is the opposite. If Sweden and other countries do not put pressure on those countries that do not take social responsibility for their citizens but take their responsibility, they make themselves part of the problem rather than part of the solution. Therefore, the legislation on these payments needs to be tightened up. The possibility of paying support to citizens of other EU countries should be completely removed, and legal residence requirements should be introduced for other social benefits. Mr President, I would like to Those working in school and leisure activities are more often ill. We know this from our everyday life, all of us who know someone who works in school and leisure activities. That person is more likely to be ill. In order to reduce the spread of infection in school and leisure activities – which of course also benefits children – we propose that the withdrawal of the withdrawal date for staff in school and leisure activities be abolished. For this we allocate SEK 400 million for 2017. In total, our proposals in this area of expenditure mean that we allocate 4.4 billion more than the government to Category 10 for 2017. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 1.
i-PN537dDSKYF9SJjSBfQ1oS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Linus Bylund, for your speech. I have a question connected to the far parentheses. You did not mention this in your speech, but the Swedish Democrats have, if I understood it correctly throughout the last parliamentary term but also during this parliamentary term, thought it was right and proper to have a distant parentheses. As I said in the last shift, we know that over 100 000 people were insured. People were thrown between different systems. People were forced to leave health insurance to apply for other types of benefits. In many cases, women were forced to live on their husband's wages. Sometimes the Swedish Democrats argue that they are on the side of ordinary people. Then I wonder how your view of the distant parentheses agrees with that, because the distant parentheses actually go out on ordinary employees – not only if they get sick but also because the kind of system in which sick people are made poorer creates a downward pressure on wages in general. My question to Linus Bylund is simply: how does your view of the distant parentheses rhyme with your argument that you are on the side of employees?
i-3332cf619e423afa-63	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that's exactly what Math ias says. We have a view of wage earners and citizens that can happen more in line with Math ia's own view than with that of his straw men as opponents. As Mr Mat h ias has certainly noticed, we have not agreed with the Alliance's line in committee on the reintroduction of the distant parentheses. We have a non-black and white view of this issue. I do not think the previous solution was good. I do not think the current solution is optimal. There are many things to work with, but of course we think that you have to weigh the cost of people getting into work in a reasonable way, both for their own good and for the benefit of society. I myself believe in a more personalised solution than a more solid parenthesis. But, as I said, here I agree with both of you if I may put it fuzzyly.
i-3332cf619e423afa-67	Mr President, I would like to I did not really understand what Mr Bylund said. When I read in your budget, I see that you think the idea of a distant parenthesis is a good one. Of course it makes me a little worried. I know that the distant parentheses meant that sick people were thrown between systems and were insured. We Social Democrats do not believe that sick people get healthier just because they become poor. Of course I'm gonna be a little thoughtful. I cannot help thinking about whether this is related to the adaptation made by the Swedish Democrats to Moderate policy. On several occasions a purely anti-employee policy has been pursued. I think this is in line with the discussion on the past parentheses, but I can also mention the turnaround of the Swedish democrats on the issue of public procurement or why not the question of profits in welfare. Nevertheless, I would like a clear reply from Linus Bylund. How will you continue to act? How will you act after a choice as to the distant parentheses? I think there are many who want to know, because the distant parentheses are harmful to many people.
i-3332cf619e423afa-70	Mr President, I would like to Now there were a lot of questions at the same time. Mathias's first observation was that he didn't really make sense. Perhaps we can agree on that. Joke aside! When it comes to public procurement, we do not think that employees in the Swedish labour market should have different conditions. It is very strange that the government seems to think so and wants to introduce these rules. We put a stop to those rules, and I'm proud of that. As for the distant parentheses and how we will act after the elections, that is what I am saying. I do not think it should be a harsher parenthesis in the way it has been, but the solution we have now is also problematic, as diseases are increasing. It will be a negotiating situation. I'm on the line that it'll be more individualized, but that the insurance can't go on forever.
i-3332cf619e423afa-74	Mr President, I would like to With this year's budget, the green-red government continues its efforts to level out class gaps, strengthen the social protection net and create well-being that benefits everyone. I note that the parties of the Alliance – this year as well as last year and several years before – want to cut back on welfare, especially for those who already have the worst. Among other things, we want to remove the increased benefits in the welfare system, both those we have and those we are now introducing. This applies, for example, to sickness and activity benefits. Furthermore, the alliance parties, as we have heard here in the debate, want to reintroduce the longer time limit in health insurance. So, like last year, one believes in miracles: that one person becomes healthy from one day to the next only because one fixes a certain date in a rehabilitation chain. And if the alliance parties do not believe in miracles, they must instead think that just because the individual has the insolence to be ill for a long time should surely have it very cheap financially, with all that it entails of anxiety and thus reduced susceptibility to rehabilitation and, in the worst case, a delayed recovery. Instead, we government parties are investing in progressive measures to avoid ill-health and to support the individual so that he can return to work. We have presented a broad programme of measures for increased health and reduced sick leave, which has led, among other things, to an increased awareness of the gravity of the issue of sick leave and thereby to an increased mobilisation among different actors to break the rise in sick leave. An agreement has been made between Sweden's municipalities and county councils on a quality-proof and effective sick leave and rehabilitation process. Within the framework of this agreement, I would like to point out in particular that the Government provides incentives to the county councils for so-called coordinator functions that coordinate efforts both internally in health care and externally with employers and the Social Insurance Agency. It intends to review the conditions for the introduction of permanent functions of rehabilitation coordination, as proposed by the parliamentary social security inquiry, among other things. I believe in these coordinators, because I have seen that this works in practice to the limited extent that has existed so far. I would also like to highlight the fact that the Government has commissioned the Social Insurance Agency to evaluate and consider how current workplace-related support to employers can be developed. An evaluation of this, including any proposals for improvements, will be presented to the government at the beginning of next year. The Green Party would particularly like to highlight occupational health care as an important player in the prevention of ill health, but we would like to see occupational health care extended to include more rehabilitative measures. In particular, the Green Party has raised the issue of student conditions in social security, not least in the parliamentary social security inquiry. It is therefore gratifying to note that the issue is now being prepared within the Government Office and that the Government sees it as a priority task to strengthen student protection in the event of illness. It is worrying that the number of young people with activity compensation is increasing. Therefore, the government takes a holistic approach to the issue of activity compensation. It is not least called for after the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism, where their overall conclusion is that the purpose of the activity compensation is not achieved and that the compensation does not meet the Riksdag's and the Government's goal of an active approach for young people with reduced working capacity. Therefore, one of the seven priority areas of the Government's action programme is to create better opportunities for young people with disabilities or illness to get into work. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the efforts made by Finsam, the Financial Coordination Associations, play an important role in activating young people with activity compensation. Therefore, there is also a mandate for associations to give priority to those who have activity compensation. As regards the Social Insurance Agency as an authority and employer, I am well aware that there are a number of challenges to be addressed in the area of human resources policy. The Government also considers that Försäkringskassan has not fully fulfilled its employer policy responsibilities. The sick absence of employees at the agency continues to rise, and more people experience a strained work situation and a high workload. Personnel turnover in the agency increased from 7 to 9 per cent last year. This is, of course, a major concern, now that we are talking about the need to manage the rehabilitation chain and that the Social Insurance Agency should be on its feet when it comes to getting people back to work. I assume that the Government instructs the Social Insurance Agency to address these challenges and that the Government once again stresses the importance of this. I know that Försäkringskassan is already working to slow down the increase in sick leave through early intervention, rehabilitation work and greater focus on sustainability and health. A strategic initiative has been taken to reduce internal sick leave, and it is one of the jobs that the agency will carry out until 2020. It is, of course, entirely reasonable that an authority such as the Social Insurance Agency should set a good example in the work against ill health at work. Mr President, I would like to With this intervention, I would ask you to endorse the proposal in the committee's report.
i-3332cf619e423afa-86	Mr President, I would like to I thank Rickard Persson. This week there was a report from the Swedish National Audit Office that you have probably taken note of. It clearly shows that the average reduction in sickness benefit does not adversely affect people's health and that the chances of the sick person remaining on the labour market are increasing. It is also stated that the longer a person is on sick leave, the greater the risk of losing the job. Not having an employer makes the return to work difficult. When a person receives sickness benefit, the probability is reduced that the individual has left the labour market within three years and received sickness and activity benefit. In addition, the same report found that the income from work among those who were denied was higher one year after the decision than among those who had continued to receive sick leave. This should then be set against the government's policy. In its own proposal, the removal of the time limit was the result of a gradual increase in the number of long-term cases of illness. At the same time, the inflow of new cases of illness is expected to be curbed. Overall, the reform is expected to lead to around 7,000 more ongoing cases of illness at the end of 2016. ..................................................... In referrals to the government, it was warned that these calculations would probably be optimistic. Both the Social Security Inspection and the Swedish National Audit Office warned against this. Nevertheless, the government chose to proceed with its proposal. I think it is now time for the Green Party to start listening to what the expert bodies are saying instead of constantly getting stuck behind ideological blind spots.
i-3332cf619e423afa-92	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get a question right away. However, I note that there has been a brake on the increase in sick leave and illness. This braking has taken place during the time we have not had the shorter time limit in health insurance. This contradicts what you said in your long speech here, Tina Ghasemi. So I see no problem with this. When we had the later deadline, people were balling around among the authorities. They came from Försäkringskassan. After all, the longer time limit does not make people healthier; they just get safe and have a worse economy. Then they came to another authority. They were balled over to Arbetsförmedlingen, who does not know what to do with a sick person who is not susceptible to rehabilitation. In the worst case scenario, as noted by the supervisory authorities, it led to deterioration when another authority would start with rehabilitation efforts to which the individual was not susceptible. This rounding up of individuals in government is not worthy of a welfare state.
i-3332cf619e423afa-94	Mr President, I would like to Let us remember that the government's direct expenditure on sickness benefit and rehabilitation was SEK 32 billion in 2014, which I also mentioned in my main speech. In this year's budget bill, the government has committed 42 billion. So it is a cost increase of over SEK 10 billion. This does not suggest that developments are moving in the right direction. When you look at the government's own proposals, you can see that the government's own target of nine days of sick leave by 2020 is unlikely to be achieved. The government's own objective will therefore not be achieved. I therefore call for more concrete measures here and now. Here we Moderates have proposed a variety of reforms. These include a strengthened rehabilitation chain, a specific rehabilitation chain for mental illness and the reintroduction of the time limit. I would also like to point out that Sweden is unique. We are the only country in the world that does not have a longer deadline. All the experts say that a shorter time limit reduces the rate of sick leave. In addition to the longer time limit, we naturally want the ability to work to be examined regularly. In this respect, I would like to continue to ask what concrete measures the government has to take to reduce the rate of sick leave.
i-3332cf619e423afa-99	Mr President, I would like to I would like to comment on what Tina Ghasemi said almost last time, that experience shows that a shorter time limit reduces the number of sick leave. Yes, but it is perhaps because people are insured that the sickness rate decreases. It's not because they're getting well. This is the big difference, now that we are balls with statistics. Tina knows very well that Försäkringskassan has been in a process. It was this government that made sure that the Social Insurance Agency was given much more resources to carry out its rehabilitation mission, which had not been achieved in the past in a succession of years when you were in government. We added resources. At Försäkringskassan you are still in a phase where you recruit people and will catch up and reduce the number of cases per case officer, so that you can manage your rehabilitation mission. It'll take some time. Now the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has started to catch up with a number of things. I believe that this will have an effect when we now provide resources, so that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency can do what it is supposed to do. You never did. As I said in my speech, the Social Insurance Agency's administrator was overloaded with matters. Then they won't have time for everything. I think it will improve considerably now. We'll be optimistic. The government will come back with more measures if sickness rates do not decrease even further and we reach the target in nine days' time.
i-3332cf619e423afa-103	Mr President, I would like to Sickness rates are increasing. We have already heard that sick leave is increasing in the debate here. This is not something that we in the opposition have made up, but it says to read in the government's own evaluation of the year that has passed. It's clear. I understand that this is a black about the foot of the government, because you really want to reduce sickness rates, but, as I said, you do not. You don't listen, you don't take on board and you don't look back on the agreements you've had in the Social Insurance investigation, where you actually agreed to enable rehabilitation measures and rapid interventions and evaluate this before you removed the last border. I regret that the credibility and reliability of the government has a thorn in discovering such things. I guess that's what the government is paying for now. You want broad agreements, it's black and white in the Social Security investigation. This has been left behind. This also applies to more things that the investigation produced, which were quite long gone and which could well have been carried out in the almost two years since the investigation was presented. You haven't cared about that either. One of those things is the flexible sick leave, i.e. enabling people to be on sick leave at times other than 25, 50, 75 and 100 per cent, for example in order to keep a job. You may need to have rehabilitation for a few hours each week, and then it may be enough that you are on sick leave perhaps 20 percent to cope with it. But that is not possible today. This could have been done, but it has been rejected. It is being prepared in the government, as it is said. Mr President, I would like to This is also about students and entrepreneurs. We have also been told that these areas are being prepared, especially as regards students' opportunities to be on sick leave. We heard from the Green Party that this was an important issue for them. But the Green Party has apparently failed to ensure that something practical has happened. You prepare it, like I said. We have seen that it is important to enable the security of entrepreneurs but also of entrepreneurs' employees. That's why we worked quite intensively in the Social Insurance investigation with what they called MUPP, that is, monthly reports. It was removed, and something much better was done. This is what we now call e-inkom st. The government now wants to introduce e-income, i.e. that companies should report to the tax authorities who have been on sick leave and what sick leave has for wages – this to enable good accounting. But what has not been included, Mr President, is that at the same time businesses would be relieved. All you've done is make sure they report in. At the same time, it has not been ensured that it is something that companies also benefit from. That is why, of course, we say from the Center Party: one cannot do this unilaterally for one party, that is, the state, and thus leave the companies behind. Gender and gender considerations in occupational injury insurance are another pressing issue that is important to resolve. Over the years, many studies have been conducted that show why this is the case and what could be done to overcome it. That too was something that the Social Insurance investigation raised, and there were suggestions as to how to do it. Here the government – hears and marvels – has set up a new investigation. The report, Mr President, will be presented on 31 March 2017. Who in this House believes that a proposal should be made during this term of office? Four more years have passed when you have not done anything about gender thinking in work injury insurance. How many women pay for it? Wrong payments are something that we in the Alliance have raised. You need to get authorities to report further when they suspect something. It is extremely important to do something about this. But the government didn't think so. They thought they should set up an investigation that should be completed on August 31, 2017. So they also wanted to leave it there. But it is an extremely important issue. It is clear with all the necessary clarity that the government has put aside the proposals that have been on the table. So you don't care that sick people will have opportunities to get back to work and get rehabilitation. No, they prepare, prepare and prepare in the Government Office. And there's really nothing happening. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to endorse reservations 4, 5 and 8. I would also refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party.
i-3332cf619e423afa-116	Mr President, I would like to Mr Zander raises a number of important issues. No one can deny that Solveig is a very good rhetoricist. But I'd like to start at another end. That is the end of the broad agreements. There have never been as many broad agreements as during this parliamentary term. This does not just mean that a credit should be given to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. A tribute shall also be given to other parties that have participated in the broad agreements. I think it is good for Sweden to find broad agreements on important issues. I hope that in future we can find agreements in this area too. When it comes to sickness, I think Solveig Zander raises parts of the truth. The fact that Solveig Zander raises parts of the truth makes me think that the whole picture does not actually come out. It is not that sickness rates started to decrease in 2008, when the last parentheses were introduced, but sickness rates were already falling in 2003. Then sick leave decreased all the way up to 2010. What we can now see is that the forecasts for sick leave are adjusted downwards. From 2015 to 2016, forecasts have been revised downwards by 10 billion. What separates us is that you want to introduce a new Karen's Day. Then my question to you is: Why do you think that getting poor makes sick people healthier?
i-3332cf619e423afa-120	Mr President, I would like to It makes you happy when you get praise. That's not what was meant to be, I guess. But it is clear that it is appreciated in this context. What Mathias is talking about is extremely important. Broad agreements on important issues provide security for citizens. Health insurance and security systems are among the most important areas we have. When you become ill or unemployed, you end up in a situation that you do not want to be involved in. It is therefore important to have broad agreements in this context. Now the Social Democrats have abandoned what we agreed jointly. We did this because it is so very important. I'm sorry you've made your own decisions. It is a minority that has decided, and it is contrary to broad agreements. Do you get healthier if you have a Karen's day? No, but it's important to be made aware that something has to happen. Then we have chosen to do this for the 15th day, when you move from receiving compensation from the employer to receiving compensation from the Social Insurance Agency. It's about actually getting your eyes open because you might have to do something to make things better. Of course, the sickness rate dropped. There were 230 000 fewer people on sick leave in 2014 than in 2006, and there were on average 13 fewer days of sick leave.
i-3332cf619e423afa-124	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit of a pity that we are talking about so much history, because what we should really do is look ahead and see how we can improve our common systems. But I don't think we can get away from this. With regard to the parliamentary social security inquiry, I do not think it was an hour – or half a day – before members of the Social Security Committee on the side where Solveig Zander was sitting were out and sawing important parts of the proposal. It is claimed that it is the Social Democrats who unilaterally do not want to accept proposals and broad solutions. Actually, that's not true. It was an hour or two before you sawed parts of the investigation. I think we all have to think about how we achieve broad solutions. And I have to say that your extremely black and white history in this regard is not very consistent with the truth. You didn't do this, but I think of the Alliance as a whole. It was other representatives of the Alliance who rejected parts of the investigation after an hour or two or a half day– I don't really remember, but it went very fast. I think, once again, that we need to consider whether getting poor makes sick people healthier. I don't think so. That is why I do not think that another day of karen is a good idea, and that is why I do not think that the past parentheses are a good idea either. I noticed that Solveig Zander said something in the sense that it is important that the sick get a hint that you have to do something yourself. It is clear that people must act, but it is of course in interaction with society and with the employer that you make sure that you get back to the labour market. It's not by getting rid of money.
i-3332cf619e423afa-129	Mr President, I would like to The last thing that Mathias said is the important thing in this context: it is an interaction between the authorities and the individual. We all have a responsibility ourselves, but when it comes to sick leave, this interaction is very important. There we have already decided that Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen will cooperate. We also have suggestions that Försäkringskassan should also help to look at how to help the sick person to contact the employer. If you have been on sick leave for 14 days and nothing has happened, even though you have shown this yourself, it is important that you have the opportunity to ask for further help from Försäkringskassan in this context. This aims to get support and help to get back to work. The 14th day of Karen can contribute to this. This one day does not ruin the economy, but it enables people to get help to return to work sooner, which is extremely important. Mr President, I would like to I would like to have known what important agreements were reached and sawed a few hours or a few days after the Social Insurance Report was presented. I cannot respond to this now, but I am convinced that it was about things that we had warned earlier in the investigation that we saw doubts with. Agreements are agreements, and if you have a common agreement, you should stick to it. But you haven't done that with the far limit.
i-3332cf619e423afa-134	Mr President, I would like to Everyone can get sick, so everyone has an interest in a good health insurance. Even those who never get long-term ill themselves benefit from having a reasonable financial situation for those who are unlucky and, where possible, receive good support to get back to work. Forced out sick people into poverty is tearing society apart and is an unworthy way of dealing with people. The Left Party wants health insurance to provide good compensation for the loss of income from work and thereby provide security in that if we fall ill, we will be financially well off. Such security for all we create through general welfare. The demands for sickness benefit are now unreasonably harsh. After the tightening-up that has been carried out, Sweden now has the toughest demands of all OECD countries to grant sickness benefit, according to the Final Report of the Labour Ability Investigation. The economic standard is significantly lower for the sickness and activity benefit group than for the population as a whole. Many people are forced into poverty and find it difficult to cope with their economies. That is why we want to see an investigation into a new framework for sickness benefit. Together, the government and the Left Party have ensured that the cut-off period in health insurance, the so-called ‘fallstock', was finally abolished in December 2015. The previous government introduced this reform in 2008. It meant that after having been on sick leave for 914 days you no longer received any compensation from Försäkringskassan. Instead, it would be included in a labour market measure. After 87 days one could possibly be granted a new period of sick leave of a maximum of 915 days. Whoever was rejected was left to his fate. For many people, this was a total disaster. In the worst case scenario, the only way out was to seek support from social services. In just a few years, the very foundation of our welfare was rocked. The reason for the introduction of these rules was that the then government wanted to reduce the rates of sick leave. But basically there must have been an idea that if you whip people hard enough, they will soon become healthy. There must have been ideas that when a person becomes poor enough, he will be well. With the facts in hand, we can probably conclude that the recipe that the previous right-wing government wrote out did not cure any sick people. Nor did it reduce sickness rates. No, instead, the longer deadline contributed to thousands of people being assured. Instead, the reform contributed to people paying the price of their illness by ending up in financial vulnerability. In fact, this was a political decision that strengthened inequalities in society. Removing the precipice was an important part of restoring decent health insurance. However, much remains to be done before we have a secure insurance that guarantees that disease does not also mean poverty. Health insurance should therefore be spacious so that medical interventions, rehabilitation and work trials can be carried out in an individually adapted manner without affecting the benefit. Instead of today's fixed deadlines, the Left Party wants to introduce rights for the sick person to receive support on the way back to work. Responsibility in health insurance must be shared between society, employers and the individual. Although employers are already obliged to participate in the rehabilitation of an employee, this is all too rarely done. Therefore, it should be possible to levy fines on employers who do not comply with the rules. We want this to be investigated. The design of health insurance affects pensions. Many people – especially women and LO members – are unable to work until the age of 65, but today's strict rules on sickness benefit mean that, despite their limited work capacity, they are not granted sickness benefit. In order to have something to live on, many who have turned 61 and who have the right to take out their old-age pension feel obliged to do just that. The sooner a person picks out the pension, the lower it gets. As a result, these people will receive a lower pension for the rest of their lives than if they had only retired at the age of 65. In addition, their tax will be higher than that of other pensioners, as the pension received before the age of 66 is taxed higher. Overall, this increases the risk of poverty. In the budget cooperation with the Government, the Left Party has implemented increases in the remuneration levels of those who have income-related remuneration. Approximately 58% of those covered by the increase are women. The reform gives up to SEK 200 more in the wallet per month and covers about 218 000 people.
i-3332cf619e423afa-149	But, as I said, much remains to be done. Last week, Ekot reported that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's changed way of working, with higher demands for sickness certificates, has resulted in more and more people getting their sickness benefit withdrawn. Statistics show that the number of cases of withdrawals of sickness benefit has more than doubled. 14 000 people have received sickness benefit in the first nine months of the year, compared with 6,750 people in the same period last year. We are almost daily receiving alarming evidence and figures showing that people who are sick are not being granted the compensation to which they should be entitled. In addition, compensation is no longer paid in anticipation of completion. This means that many sick people are put in a stressful situation of uncertainty and financial vulnerability. It is important to ensure that preventive work is done, that employers fulfil their rehabilitation and adaptation obligations and, of course, that sick people are not made more difficult. The Left Party wants to see more preventive measures to reduce ill health and a well-functioning health insurance that can be trusted. After all the work the Left Party and the government have done to remove the backlog in health insurance, this is a decline. We assume that the government will come back as soon as possible with proposals to restore decent and sustainable health insurance. People are not expenditure items in health insurance, but health insurance is a loss of income insurance that is for us people if we have the bad luck of getting sick. It will give us financial security in a difficult situation. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-3332cf619e423afa-157	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to listen to Rossana Dinamarca, especially at the end when it was about Försäkringskassan having started to withdraw sickness benefit. Hundreds of people in my home country have received sickness benefit withdrawn after waiting for several months to find out if sickness benefit is granted or not. For example, for a single mother who was on sick leave for mental problems, this meant that she became so worried that she ended up in psychiatry and was admitted. As a center party, I believe that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's narrow approach is due to the fact that the government has been so hard to reduce sickness rates, and then you take what you have, i.e. to reject applications for sickness benefit. This is a concern. In the past, it has been said that any person denied sick leave is one too many, and that is something to take very much into account. The Left Party is a support party for the government. Haven't you been running it with them? Or do you support them only when you have to, not when there are important things to consider?
i-3332cf619e423afa-162	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is not a support party. We have budgetary cooperation that covers a lot of issues but not everything. As Mr Zander sees in the report, we have a number of reservations and, as I said in my speech, the issue of people who have received their sickness benefit is something that the Left Party expects the government to take hold of. We have done things together with the government, such as removing the precipice, which was extremely important. But there are still things to do, and here we will push. The budget is one part and the political one is another, and we are an opposition party there.
i-3332cf619e423afa-166	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to be both an opposition party and a party that agrees with the government. It is difficult to keep track of what the Left Party is in this context. What does the Left Party want to do about this? What are your suggestions? You can't just expect the government to come up with proposals. You guys have to come up with something for yourself. But you haven't. For me, quick decisions are important. One of the proposals that Försäkringskassan has worked with but withdrawn is simplified sickness certificates. During the time of the alliance government, we pushed for simple, clear medical certificates that could enable the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to make quick decisions. This proposal has now been put aside by Försäkringskassan. I do not hear a single proposal from the Left Party on how we can put people back in a situation where they do not get any money. You don't get healthier without money. On the contrary, I understand from the discussions here. So what do you want to do? Mr President, I would like to Before my speaking time comes to an end, I shall endorse reservations 6 and 8, so that it will be right. Again, what does the Left Party want to do concretely? What are your proposals to the government?
i-3332cf619e423afa-173	Mr President, I would like to Solveig Zander knows that the Left Party is not in government. That makes us an opposition party. The government is looking to us to negotiate the budget. There are parts where we agree and share where we are not. It's not that hard. I understand Mr Zander, but for us it is quite simple. There are several issues where we disagree with the government and pursue our own policy. In my speech, I said, among other things, that we want an investigation that reviews the regulatory framework for sickness benefit. I mentioned more things in my speech, and more are in the report. Mr Zander may need to look a little at the report and read through the Minutes after the debate, because it is a bit difficult to draw the whole speech again. I had several points where I highlighted what the problems are and what needs to be done. It makes me uncomfortable that Solveig Zander rages over the fact that you don't get healthier with the money being withdrawn. That's true. We're not getting any better from a deterioration in health insurance. We need to look at other things, like rehabilitation. We also need to look at the individualisation of parental insurance. We know that women get sicker after they have their first child, and there is a greater difference between men and women in that case. We know that six hours' workday means that sickness rates are falling. So there are a lot of things to do.
i-3332cf619e423afa-178	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Category 10 Economic security in the event of illness and disability. If you read this verbatim, you might think that anyone with some form of illness and disability is entitled to financial compensation. But that's not the case. If, on the other hand, you have a disease or disability that prevents you from doing a wage job, you should feel confident that society enters and provides financial compensation in the form of our common insurance policy. There are many people in our country who go to work every day, even though they have a disease or a disability. With the right treatment and other efforts, they manage to do wage work, some full-time and others part-time. I'm absolutely sure that all people feel good about feeling needed, being in a context and someone asking for them if they don't show up at an agreed time. But we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that, unfortunately, there are people who are so sick or disabled that they cannot manage to have a wage job. These people must be able to feel confident that they have a reasonable life and that the state goes in and provides financial support in the form of various compensations. There we have, among other things, sickness benefit, activity benefit and sickness benefit, or disability pension as it was previously called and as many still say in daily terms. Several of my colleagues have previously raised in the speaker's chair that they are concerned that ill health is increasing and that more people are getting sick leave. We in the Liberals also think that it was a big mistake to remove the longer time limit in health insurance. I don't think it makes you feel better. On the other hand, I think it's good to have reconciliations where someone asks: How can we help you get back to work in the best way possible? However, many of my colleagues have raised this earlier, so I would like to talk about the activity compensation instead. If you are between 19 and 30 years old and have reduced working capacity due to illness or disability for more than one year, there is the possibility of receiving this allowance. The activity allowance was introduced in 2003 and then replaced the disability pension for persons between 19 and 30 years of age. Listen to the name – activity compensation! The idea was that these people would have the opportunity to have some form of activity and get help and support to approach the labour market. The insured person must have his/her own administrator at Försäkringskassan, and they must work out appropriate activities for the individual in consultation. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed this and concluded that there are major shortcomings in the procedure and that the administrators at Försäkringskassan do not have the time they need to ensure that the right efforts are made and neither does the time to follow up the same. Many of these young people have the opportunity to enter the labour market if they get the right action at the right time. I think it is economic waste, both for the individual and for society, if we do not make the right efforts at the right time. Then let us not overlook the fact that there are individuals who are so sick and disabled that, unfortunately, they are never able to enter the regular labour market. However, we believe that it is inhumane to put their legs away at such an early age. There are different types of activities that could facilitate their everyday lives and give them a better life – if the activities are put in as the idea was from the beginning. Young people should not have to be stamped at an early age. Then we know that they face great difficulties in entering the labour market. That is why we Liberals reject the change that the government now intends to make and which puts young people in exclusion at the age of 19. As the Liberals are not taking part in the decision, I refer to our specific opinion. I also support reservation 14.
i-7bUqaar5EXXExrz3KBuLmA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Carlsson Löfdahl! Many of the replica shifts here today, where I am one of the guilty, have been about the longer deadline. At the same time, it is a bit of a pity, because although it is an important issue for many people, this is a large area with many important issues. However, I could not help requesting a reply after Emma Carlsson Löfdahl's speech. I would like to start by saying that what is important in insurance, in my view, is that sick people should have the opportunity to receive compensation and that people who have the capacity to work should work. It is important to maintain both of these things without people getting caught. It is clear that there is a need for a proper rehabilitation chain, and it is clear that there is a need for people who are sick to be helped to get back into the labour market. I think Emma Carlsson Löfdahl expressed it as a good thing that someone is asking how things are going. But that's not what the far parentheses were about – that someone called and asked how the person was doing. What happened in practice was that they were insured from insurance to which they were actually entitled and placed at the disposal of the labour market, even though many of these people were not healthy enough to be able to work. The two important principles were confused: that sick people should receive compensation and that people who can work should do so. They started tampering, and that got people caught. That is why I have to ask: do you really think that getting poorer makes sick people healthier? It was not a call that was introduced when the distant parentheses were removed.
i-3332cf619e423afa-196	Mr President, I would like to I think you just listened to parts of my speech, Mathias Tegnér, because I said people don't get healthy by the far parentheses. I think we should be clear about that, because we often hear from the other side that we have said what you said. We never have, and I want to be clear about that. I am grateful that it was not just a phone call when you came to the far parentheses, because then we have missed the whole point. When people need help, support and rehabilitation, they should get it. It was about getting over to Arbetsförmedlingen – absolutely. There has been horror propaganda that said that we forced people out to work eight hours a day to see if they could do it. Someone else has understood that we have forced them to retrain and sit on the school bench eight hours a day. Some individuals may have done this, but they were extremely few. We are talking about people who are sick and who have been on sick leave because of illness or disability. As Mathias Tegnér said, they should be entitled to compensation, but they should also have the right to receive the rehabilitation, investigation and support they need to be able to come back and not live in exclusion for the rest of their lives.
i-5TsZaMJyUaoo29YKVe7VZA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Emma Carlsson Löfdahl! One thing we obviously agree on is that it is important to have a good rehabilitation chain so that people who are sick have an opportunity to return to the labour market. However, I think we have different ideas on how to do this in the best way. As I said, I don't think-- I've said it a couple of times-- that getting poor makes sick people healthier. I heard you say that, but sometimes I can think that when there's a difference between what you say and what you do, it's reasonable to discuss what reality looks like. A wise man said a long time ago that you should call things by their proper names. What happened after the past parentheses had been introduced was that over 100 000 people were secured, and many were moved between different systems. But others lost their SGI and had to apply for social assistance, or support. And some, often women, were forced to live on their respective wages precisely because of the distant parentheses. I think this is important, linked to the Liberals who are still a party that talks about equality. Then I think like this: If we now agree that it is good to have a proper rehab chain, is it not there that we should start instead of starting to make sick people poor?
i-3332cf619e423afa-204	Mr President, I would like to It's good to hear that we agree on certain things. We will call things by their proper names, says Mathias Tegnér, and talk about assurances. I'd like to talk about insured people. In fact, they had the opportunity, once they had gone through this period at Arbetsförmedlingen, to have a new period in health insurance. This was the case with many of these individuals when it was discovered that they were not yet ready to return to the labour market. They got extended sick leave. Then they would come back, and new checks would be made. I don't believe, and I never thought, that people get healthy by being insured, as you call it, Mathias Tegnér. Reinsured, I name it. But I am absolutely sure that we must help and support these individuals. Since I myself am one of those who have been there, I know exactly what it's like to live in this alienation. I also know how fast it is to get into a passive life when you think you can't do anything and you're not worth anything. Self-esteem equals zero. Then you need the support, the help and the push that you can get from Arbetsförmedlingen to think about if you have the opportunity to do something. If you can do something, even if it is so little, you as an individual feel much better.
i-3332cf619e423afa-208	Mr President, I would like to When the Social Insurance Agency came up with its latest forecast at the end of October, it provided at least cautiously positive data on the cost development of both sickness benefits and activity and sickness benefits, which form the basis of the state budget's expenditure category 10, which is the focus of this debate. It is written that, in the long term, the development of costs is dampened compared to previous forecasts. I think it is important to say this, because developments have been going in the wrong direction for several years. However, it should not be interpreted as not facing major challenges ahead. In this debate, I would like to start by saying something about preventive work, in which we, on the part of the KD, want to emphasise that it must be seen in both a long-term and a broad perspective. It is simply not enough just to focus on the workplace and the problems that arise, and can arise, there. We need a policy that helps to reduce stress but also to create good conditions for improved public health. The possibilities for each person to get their own life puzzle together are, of course, influenced by the policies carried out in several different areas. For many it would make it easier to have greater financial room for manoeuvre. This requires a reduction in taxes, not least for low and middle wage earners. For example, parents of young children would facilitate more choice in childcare, so that today's stressed parents and children could have more time with each other and not least so that the combination of work and parenthood could be facilitated. Unfortunately, we see that the government is moving in the opposite direction and instead implements proposals that reduce the room for manoeuvre of individuals and families. Mr President, I would like to There are clear risks with long absences. This involves an increased risk of sequelae but also social isolation and mental illness. Health insurance must therefore have built-in driving forces in order for the individual's work capacity to be taken into account. There needs to be more ways back to work. The so-called rehabilitation chain ensures that sick people get a continuous contact with Försäkringskassan and an early individual support. The regular reconciliation times are available to facilitate the planning of rehabilitation measures and to ensure that an individual assessment of the work capacity is carried out on a regular basis. All of this is very important for the individual and his ability to return to work as quickly as possible. The time limits of the health insurance reform have simply contributed to a process of sick leave characterised by more activity, past efforts and clearer rules. The effect of the 90- and 180-day limits has been evaluated and the conclusion has been that they have had a significant effect on the likelihood of termination of illness in relation to the time limits. Today, the Social Insurance Agency and other actors are assessed to make a greater contribution to the increased activity of the sick leave process. Based on this, it is of course very positive that the share of completed work capacity assessments according to the rehabilitation chain assessment points has increased recently. At the same time, it is unfortunate that at the end of the year, the government abolished the longer time limit in health insurance and the work-life-oriented introduction, ALI. A year ago, when we were here in the debate, we reiterated on the side of the alliance parties the fact that several heavy referrals were critical of that particular change. Among others, Försäkringskassan, IFAU, Arbetsförmedlingen and Saco pointed out that the changes risk leading to even more long cases of illness. Shortly thereafter, the Expert Group on Public Economy Studies wrote a report calling for a shorter deadline for a central component to achieve a long-term stable sick leave. Through it, they wrote, a signal is sent that a sick leave cannot last forever, which creates incentives for all the actors involved to act to find a solution before the later deadline is reached. Although the development of health insurance costs seems to be slowed down somewhat in the future, the abolition of the longer deadline was a mistake that continues to risk keeping sickness and health insurance costs higher than necessary. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the longer time limit in health insurance should be reintroduced. Mr President, I would like to Many employers, especially smaller companies, find it difficult to live up to the obligations and expectations they have under the current rules. Access to adequate professional advice on rehabilitation issues is often lacking, or access is uneven and inadequate. This shortcoming makes it difficult for prevention in the workplace, early detection and effective planning of rehabilitation efforts. In our budget, we have therefore set aside money for a three-year geographically defined pilot project with workplace advisors. The aim is to evaluate the impact of employers being offered a personal workplace advisor as support in both the employer's rehabilitation activities in general and in individual rehabilitation cases. Through this support, employers' knowledge of the Working Environment Act's requirements for work adaptation and rehabilitation would hopefully increase, as well as their knowledge of how rehabilitation is done in practice. We also believe that working life-oriented rehabilitation could then be integrated with preventive work environment work at the workplace. The results of such a pilot project shall, of course, be monitored and evaluated. However, if the conclusions of such an evaluation are positive, the initiatives should eventually be extended to the whole country. Mr President, I would like to I will end by saying something about health care and the previous queue billion, which was a performance-related compensation to the county councils that shortened the care queues even more than the care guarantee required and which contributed to increased focus on accessibility in the county councils. The government has dismantled it, but the Christian Democrats want it to be reinstated. We simply see that it is central to shortening the queues, which in many cases are developing in the opposite direction. It is important to reduce the suffering of the individual, to prevent the condition from getting worse and to avoid long periods of sick leave. In other words, it is a matter of decency and an important socio-economic issue. Mr President, I would like to We have written a motion on Category 10 which we from the Christian Democrats naturally support. We also support our specific opinion in the report. In addition, I would like to ask the alliance parties to agree to reservation 14.
i-3332cf619e423afa-226	Mr President, I would like to You should not get sick from your work, but if you do, there should be a good and humane health insurance that provides financial security and help back to health and work. This is why the government has launched a very wide range of measures for healthier workplaces and better interaction between all the actors involved. Sweden must have a sustainable labour market and a safe, efficient and legally secure health insurance. We all get that. The government has made several efforts to bring about a more secure insurance policy that leads back to health and work. The expiry of the time limit in health insurance is abolished. It may not have been a major reform that will end up in the history books, but for many in our country it was a clear violation of the view that poverty and disease are interrelated. Since 2010, sick leave has increased by 80 per cent, and the fact is that between 2010 and 2014, approximately 100,000 people were insured. At the same time, sickness rates rose by 55 per cent, and trials at day 90 and day 180 in the rehabilitation chain decreased by 50 per cent. Today, 189 000 people are on sick leave in Sweden. 135 000 are long-term sick. It is people who are in danger of disappearing from the labour market for good. It is teachers, nurses and social secretaries, and it is usually women – women who are needed to build welfare strong. This development is bad for everyone. It is bad for businesses, it is bad for the national economy and it is obviously bad not least for the individual affected and ill. This is not acceptable in Sweden. Therefore, more than a year ago, we presented a broad programme of 25 measures aimed at all actors involved in the sick leave process – Försäkringskassan, health care, employer and individual. We are also pleased that the social partners – all employers' organisations and trade unions – have stepped forward and reached agreements for healthier workplaces. In the 2017 budget, we also announce that we will follow up with further measures aimed at health care. Fortunately, we have seen for about twelve months now that the development of costs has been curbed. The rate of increase has halved over the past year. Early contact, in order to arrive at the right support in time to prevent or shorten a sick leave, is extremely important. Of course, it is best for everyone involved if it is possible to prevent an illness even before it has started, but if you fall ill, it is the employer who has the greatest opportunity to help to get you back again. 80% of those on sick leave today have an employer. Stimulating preventive work environment work and early rehabilitation and getting employers to realise that they have everything to gain from working health promotion is extremely important for Sweden to be able to reach a low and stable sick absence over time in the long term. That is why, as I said, it is extremely gratifying that both the private sector and the state and municipal sectors, together with the government, have agreed on joint work for healthier workplaces. It is a statement of strength that shows that the Swedish model actually works when it comes to it, and it is a very important step towards a more sustainable and modern labour market. I have highlighted actors who are important for us to achieve a low and stable sick absence over time. A necessary part of this is the health care system, and a particularly important part is the effort made there on the so-called rehabilitation coordinators. It is a professional group that is designed to facilitate contact between healthcare and the workplace, and it should also relieve the doctor. The function should provide clear support for people and create good collaboration around them. It is a function that exists in the agreement the government has with SKL and that we see needs to be permanent. We are now starting this work from the government's side. Similarly, we need to see how health insurance and health care can be better linked. That is why we will also test in a pilot project a financial synergy between insurance and health care. I'm going over to an area I'd like to put a little extra focus on. We are now implementing a number of improvements for people with sickness and activity benefits. We increase the guarantee level in sickness benefit, and we adjust the housing supplement. This means about SEK 2 000 more in the wallet per year. Persons with sickness and activity benefits are the group in society that has among the absolute lowest incomes and the worst conditions for improving their own situation. Therefore, it feels extra good to be able to bet on that particular group. At the same time as providing security, we will offer alternatives – a way forward. This is why the government makes important investments in the budget that enable more people to gain support into the labour market and their own livelihoods. This is an opportunity for those who, for example, have an activity allowance to try to study, but it is also about the possibility of having more security to try work when the sickness benefit is dormant. We must also face the fact that there are young people who have such severe disabilities that they will never be able to enter the labour market again. They should also be able to feel secure, even if they are 19 years old, and therefore the government proposes such a change. I don't want you to get sick of your work. If you do, the insurance should be safe, predictable and support you in getting back into health and work. That's the target. Together with Försäkringskassan, healthcare and employers, we strive towards this – healthier workplaces, simply.
i-3332cf619e423afa-239	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Government for taking part in the debate today and also being involved in the debates yesterday. I listened to the speech of the Government, and I was a little distressed. I was a little worried, too. I thought I heard that it is a clearly satisfied Minister for Social Security who is standing in this Chamber today. I was going to address one of the perhaps most serious and major challenges we have in health insurance, and that is mental illness. The background is that the number of cases started due to mental diagnoses increased by over 70 percent in recent years. All of us working on these issues know that the situation is complicated for those with mental diagnoses. We know roughly how long it takes for a broken leg to heal, and we know roughly how the work capacity is affected by the broken leg. However, it looks very different when it comes to a mental illness. That is why we, the Moderates, have proposed a new track in the rehabilitation chain for mental diagnoses. We also believe that a person who suffers from mental illness may not be sick at all at home for a longer period if the workplace itself is part of the underlying cause of the disease. It is not reasonable to wait 90 days before a review is carried out if there are other tasks of the employer that the person can perform. Nor is it reasonable to wait six months before asking whether the person should remain at his current workplace at all. That's why we're proposing the special track in the rehabilitation chain, so that we can get rid of the mental illness. My question to the Government is: How does the government view the Moderates' proposal?
i-3332cf619e423afa-244	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that input, Tina Ghasemi! I can assure you that you will not have a satisfied Minister for Social Security until we have healthier workplaces so that fewer people need to be sickened. This applies not least precisely to the group you mention, namely the many women today, not least women who work in welfare, who suffer from mental illness – stress, anxiety and depression. In many cases, this is because there are high demands in the workplace and that the life situation, with private life and work, is not being reconciled. This has been one of the main priorities of the whole government's action programme. We have contributed SEK 100 million per year to the area of work environment, especially with a focus on women's work environment and mental illness. We have come up with a new regulation on social and organizational work environment. It is now being implemented in the workplaces around Sweden. Its focus is precisely on gaining control of the growing psychosocial health and safety problems in our workplaces. I'm proud of it. We also have the parties' declarations of intent that the government has signed with trade unions and employers. There is a focus on healthier workplaces. I am hopeful that this, together with continued active work, will lead in the right direction. The entry of the Moderates into their new rehabilitation chain for mental illness is exciting. I agree with the basic wording of the problem: one can certainly not wait 90 days for an illness before there is a plan for adaptation and rehabilitation, return to work or other possibilities. In this respect, the government also returns after the end of the year.
i-3332cf619e423afa-249	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Social Security is listening to the Moderates' proposal, that she intends to come back after the end of the year and look at our ideas on how to overcome mental illness. At the same time, I am distressed. We heard that the minister was proud and happy and also hopeful. Those words make me a little concerned in this context. One year ago, Försäkringskassan estimated that by 2020 the costs of sickness benefit and rehabilitation would exceed staggering SEK 50 billion. However, this figure has been revised downwards in the latest forecast, to 44 billion. But is this the development that the Minister for Social Security describes as extremely pleasing? Thus, the outcome of the year in power of the Minister of Social Affairs would be an increase of nearly 40% in costs. I mentioned the new rehabilitation chain briefly. The Moderates have proposed a range of actions in addition to that. We would like to see specialist administrators at Försäkringskassan and a special transition track at Arbetsförmedlingen, precisely to make it easier to return to work. We also highlight the importance of the work environment and propose targeted supervision of the psychosocial work environment in groups with a high risk of sick leave. As the Minister for Social Security said, we can see this particularly in certain professions in publicly funded activities. I would like to hear some of the Minister's thoughts on those proposals too.
i-3332cf619e423afa-255	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that input. I must be clear once again that I am still not satisfied. I don't think I said I'm proud and happy either. On the other hand, I am pleased that, having seen an increase in sickness rates of 80 per cent year after year since 2010, we are now seeing a subdued trend in costs and actually a half-inflow into health insurance. It shows that some of the measures that the government is now taking are right. Above all, I feel hopeful about the work that we have now begun with the social partners. This concerns improvements in the working environment, not least in the workplaces that generate to a large extent the stress, anxiety, depression and mental illness that we see in especially younger women today. That work is a good step in the right direction. But that's not enough. We're going to have to do more. And we will not be able to be satisfied until we see that people do not need to get sick from their jobs. It's important to say it. I would like to emphasise once again that it is a good thing that we are several parties in the Swedish Parliament who see the problem of increasing mental illness and who are actively working – perhaps both together and in our own Chamber – to put ourselves into the issues and to make concrete political proposals for how we can face it. The government now has hopes for the work of the parties. As I said, we have a strong hope when it comes to the implementation of the new regulation for organizational and social work environment. We hope to see further results of this and will, of course, follow it up. However, we are always open to hearing good suggestions.
i-3332cf619e423afa-260	Mr President, I would like to Not a word, not a single word about Valter Mutts, Carl Schlyter and my motion to investigate the consequences of a system of basic income in Sweden, I find in the report we are now debating and in which the motion, so to speak, is being dealt with. The motion is rejected, without any justification whatsoever. It's a shame – and serious. What we are asking for is not a revolution, but an investigation, a conversation, a debate, so that we can test ideas and let arguments be broken against each other. Then we can move forward, together, in solving some of the fundamental problems our society faces and which are being debated here today. The work line has reached the end of the road. It runs the risk of deteriorating and becoming an instrument of discipline when there are not enough jobs to apply for and when the demands are getting tougher. Our social security systems are designed for the industrial community where people, or earlier it was men, got fixed jobs, gold watch and then retirement. This is the case for fewer and fewer people. More and more people are getting insecure jobs and nicks. The daily pay system is back; people have to wait for text messages if they are going to work or not today. People are falling out of the systems, and more and more of us are becoming stressed out, insured or not considered employable – this disgusting label that defines human dignity in the age of competition fanaticism. Add to this the accelerating automation and digitalisation that reduce the need for human work. That is excellent, provided we share the released time and money fairly. We can do that, of course, if there is political will. What, then, is basic income? And why is it important to discuss it? It is simply a question of everyone having the right to basic financial security. The most common definition is that you get a regularly paid income, without any requirement for compensation, on which you can live. All, regardless of whether they are so-called employable or profitable, shall be covered. In future posts, you will learn more about existing systems and trials made or planned around the world. Let me just briefly say that there are many different types of basic income, ranging from smaller benefits – our own child allowance for example – to sums that can be lived on, conditionally or unconditionally. The results have been good, for example in UN-funded trials in India where poor people received a small amount of money every month. Have they been lazy, laid down on the couch, drunk up the money? No, they haven't. They have managed the trust well and used the money constructively and responsibly. When people do not have the corrosive survival sorority, their creativity and ability to act are released. Not least, women have gained dramatically greater independence and power over their lives and have conquered their human dignity. Food, medicine, education and investment in entrepreneurship will be possible for those who have at least a little money. Most people can take care of themselves and are responsible. This applies to India, and it also applies to Sweden. Basic income is about human vision, power and freedom. Perhaps that is why the question is so sensitive. Do we trust each other? Do we afford each other financial security in situations that we can all end up in, such as getting sick or out of work? With unconditional financial security, more people would have a real opportunity to turn down jobs that are unsupportable and harmful to health and the environment. This applies not only to those who have been lucky enough to inherit large sums of money or to win the lottery. We could finally have much-needed pressure on the labour market for better living conditions and wages. This applies not least to women-dominated professions such as health care, which must be carried out in order for society to function. Some jobs wouldn't be done if people didn't have to take them to make a living, and that would be good. It is a public lie that all jobs are developing and important. Some jobs are even dangerous to society. It would be better for everyone if people didn't have to bury poison barrels for BT Kemi, cut down the forest or make weapons to make a living. Do we really want to move power to individual people at the expense of those who do not hesitate to exploit people? Do we want to stop exposing people who have accidentally become unemployed or ill to degrading needs tests and various labour market measures which, unfortunately, seem increasingly to be about discipline rather than help? Do we want to create jobs for the sake of whatever content and whether people get sick of them, whether they are needed or not? How many jobs can Earth take? How do we share fairly in jobs, money and consumption when we know that mankind's total consumption would require more earth than our only, while shamefully many people are poor? Finally, do we really want to eradicate poverty? Martin Luther King was right when, in his last book, he briefly stated that eliminating poverty is more effective than trying to address its accompanying problems. His solution was a guaranteed income for all, high enough to live on and linked to the median income to avoid it becoming a poverty trap. Since we are discussing health insurance here today, let me mention an example from Sweden of what money in hand can mean for people's health and well-being. Psychologist Alain Alain conducted a trial in which about a hundred long-term unemployed people with serious mental problems received an extra $500 a month for nine months. It turned out that many of these people's problems seemed to be due more to their poverty than to their illness. Some suffered from loneliness, for they simply could not afford to associate with others. The extra money was thus an effective medicine for many of the participants. Why do we not go on with this on a large scale? There were some questions that we should discuss in this congregation. Then our exercise would have been a good starting point. Mr President, I would like to I think the thought-locking when the work line and nothing else solves all the problems can be seen as an expression of the phenomenon that organizational professor Mats Alvesson calls functional stupidity. It is characterised by the absence of critical reflection and is a state of unity and consensus that causes the employees of an organization to avoid questioning decisions, structures and visions. Alvesson believes that this paradoxically can sometimes help to increase the productivity of a company or an organization, while at the same time it can be its downfall. But the Riksdag is not a company. If it's somewhere functional stupidity doesn't belong, it's here. We elected representatives should constantly question decisions, structures and visions. It's necessary when the world changes. It's our duty and our mission. We are not stewards and administrators. We're going to set the direction ahead. But how can we do that if we do not even try to think new and hold talks about how politics and the system can be adapted to the reality nowadays? If we do not dare or dare, I mean that we betray the trust that we have gained from those we represent, from those who have chosen us. Others dare and want to. In Finland, Parliament has decided to start with unconditional basic income for a number of unemployed people. Another attempt is being made in the Netherlands to target people with equivalent support. In Scotland, in Canada, in California, trials are planned. All around the world there is a debate and an attempt. Interest is also increasing in Sweden, outside the Riksdag. But in here the silence is deafening. Why? Frankly, I think that the absence of serious debate on how we can achieve economic security for all is frightening and irresponsible. One hears of enormous and growing problems of social injustice. There is a rapid technological development which we must relate to. It is also about other changes that fundamentally change the labour market and power relations in society. Mr President, I would like to We in here can do better than that. At least trust me to come back to the question. I hope for constructive and good talks about it in the future.
i-3332cf619e423afa-281	Mr President, I would like to I read the Riksbank's report No 1 from last year. For the first time, it was discussed that technology development creates fewer jobs than it rationalises away. In the past, there has been a good balance in between. It will become increasingly difficult to create more jobs by political means. It will not be possible to create enough paid traditional jobs. People need to better figure out what they want to do with their lives and how to contribute to society's development. It can be a traditional job, but it can also be a self-employment. You can also live on basic income and make important contributions to cultural, social, sports or other interests. This allows you to live on your basic income and contribute to society. Or you can have different incomes combined to a reasonable level of income. How can we maintain a huge bureaucracy to ensure that people are looking for jobs that you have my immal or no chance of getting? What does it do to people? How do you feel about constantly walking the hat in hand and getting no, no? In the end, you feel worthless. In the end, you lose your strength and power. You get burned out and you get social and psychological problems. It is more efficient and humane to allow people to have an unconditional basic income. Then we release people's own responsibilities and dreams, dreams that give you a chance to create a reality where you can grow. And how do I know that? Because it has already happened, outside Sweden. In Ochivero-Omitara, Namibia, people suddenly had to beg for basic income. Suddenly you could go to your neighbor's house with no shame. You could hang out on equal terms. One could be integrated into society. The community grew. Crime decreased by 42 per cent. There were large reductions in the number of children who did not complete schooling. They concentrated better. The number of self-employment enterprises increased by 301 per cent. It's you, Moderates! In addition, cooperation increased. They decided to jointly buy things that were important to society. It was done in India. The Indians suddenly came to the conclusion that they could finally afford to renovate temples and create credit guarantee unions that allowed one to invest out of one's own poverty in cooperation with one's fellow human beings. Some bought a TV together to afford access to the information flow. Suddenly, cross - caste cooperation began to take place in order to manage animal husbandry and financial cooperation. It had never happened before. Nutritional intake also improved and even there higher attendance at school. When a completely random line was made in Lebanon that was only altitude-based, aid was increased from 26 to 31 percent compared to the control group. Those who received basic income were more likely to help those who did not. Non-monetary resources were also strengthened. Time and emotional capital for each other increased. The proportion of the population that had been insulted by the majority population fell by 40 per cent. People got nicer to each other. Research shows that it strengthens the vital part of life that the younger teens represent. When the parents had more time, emotional strength and energy to care for their children, the whole community strengthened. Lebanon, India and Namibia – do you think it is far away? We see the same effects in Alaska. There has been an oil fund since 1982. The oil companies are being forced to pay for draining the earth's resources. This money is distributed to the citizens. It is usually about 12 000 – 20 000 a year per citizen. What happened there? Well, Alaska is the state with the least social problems. People feel best there, and they have the greatest success in everyday life. In the United States, $10 million has now been invested in studying the basic income effects of a larger part of the country. Richard Nixon of all people actually tried. The interesting thing at the time was that there was not a single documented case where someone voluntarily withdrew from the labour market. Instead, six seven weeks of leave were chosen between two jobs when one tried to find a job that better suited one's qualifications. This is good for the individual and for society. What happens now? The Pirate Party in Iceland is in favour of this. We'll see if they manage to do anything. Finland is introducing an experiment like Holland. In Canada, a state parliament decided unanimously to invest in this. In Uganda, trials will begin in 2017. The UN Charter says that we have a duty to guarantee a reasonable and reasonable level of living according to the country's ability. So why is it so quiet about this? Why aren't we investigating or investigating this? Dear Moderates! An increase of 301 % in the number of self-employed entrepreneurs is your policy, isn't it? Björklund! Do you not also dream of increased school attendance, increased concentration and better results in school? Center! What a reform of freedom! People get a better match between knowledge and work. CUF and MUF! Milton Friedman, your idol, also advocated a variant of this. It's you! The Christian Democrats! The number of volunteers as well as social interaction is increasing. This is a great strength for your policy, isn't it? Left party! The World Economic Forum carried out an investigation into what action would best increase gender equality. Basic income was the one that received the most support. Social Democrats! The reason why something other than those with money rules in society is knowledge. The power, time and energy of social community and the ability to organise and defend their interests are social democratic politics. The Swedish Democrats! I don't know much about your politics. But a 42% reduction in crime is still a good thing, isn't it? I'm positive. All I'm asking is to stimulate your curiosity. Why not investigate the question? If it turns out that this goes completely against what you stand for, you can argue with good arguments for rejection.
i-3332cf619e423afa-307	Mr President, I would like to I am going to talk for a few minutes about something that is not very sexy in politics, namely financial market supervision, management policy, employers' policy and some other small and good things. I think there is reason to mention these areas at times. Expenditure area 2 deals with economics and financial management. The financial market area is something that has been very much in the throes of recent years and recent times. It started with a major crack in the banking sector, not least in a number of Mediterranean countries. It had to go in with quite significant amounts, with the consequences that this has had for Greece and partly Italy and Spain. This led us to create a common regulatory framework which, among other things, meant a more stable situation in the European banking market. Perhaps in just a few weeks' time we will have to resort to the funds contained in the so-called crisis management directive. We will see how the Italian banks are doing. I would like to point out that there are many important areas where, not least, supervision is one. Finansinspektionen's supervision is increasing every year. Mr President, I would like to Under this area is Finansinspektionen, Riksgäldskontoret and financial market research, which is something that we discuss a lot from time to time. This research also needs to be supported in the future. It does not fit under what we normally discuss when we deal with research and development. Financial market research therefore has an allocation here. Let me also say something about the National Debt Office! This is the authority that has been given the responsibility to be our resolution authority. When the banks get in trouble, that's where they're going. In this area, next year the government will take some action, some of which are controversial while others are less controversial. Most of it will be done so that the President announces during the vote that there is only one motion and that it is the committee's proposal. Then this will be put through. This is how it will happen on a number of occasions. But, as I said, there are some controversial measures. The so-called Mifid I and Mifir, which include a ban on commissioning securities advice, are controversial as the savings banks may lose out. Another point I would like to mention is that we should look at the potential of savings banks to raise capital in order to increase their own financial strength. Finally, a parliamentary inquiry into the monetary policy framework and the Sveriges Riksbank Act will be set up. This area is therefore important. The second area I refer to is government fiscal policy, which is not very sexy but important. In this area, when the Rural Committee discusses the relocation of authorities, it is such ports. Don't think it's in regional policy! It is therefore under the rather boring management policy. There is Statskontoret that investigates and develops more efficient authorities. The Financial Control Agency, which is responsible for accounting, is also located here, as is the National Service Centre, which coordinates certain services such as payroll management for different authorities. The next area is public procurement. A public procurement authority has now been set up to make it easier for government authorities and municipalities and county councils to do the best possible procurement and also to advise them. The Competition Authority had this role earlier and then had a double role. On the one hand, it would provide advice on how to do the best possible procurement, and on the other, it could criticise successful procurement. It's good to have a new authority. I would also like to mention the statistics and the SCB, which is an important authority in order to provide the basis for us so that we can make reasonable political decisions. We have a forecast and follow-up activity that sometimes pops up in the debate. The Board of Finance and the Institute of Economics are responsible for it. They are important for us to have good government. In addition, we have the role of the state as an employer. Someone may wonder why the Riksdag should interfere in this. Aren't the parties in charge of this? Yes, it is, but in this case we represent the state and must ensure that we are a good employer just as companies must ensure that through their employers' organisations we are good employers. Then there's the real estate administration. It is important because it manages state properties, ranging from castles and huts to ordinary office properties. Finally, Mr President, I would also like to mention the good accounting practice for companies and entrepreneurs. For it there is a small authority called the Accounting Board. Trust me-- sometimes you need it, and then it's important. Then there is the National Audit Office, but there it is only about the money. After all, the regulatory framework for this has been widely discussed around this year. I support the committee's proposal, Mr President.
i-3332cf619e423afa-326	Mr President, I would like to I will certainly do my best to stick to the agreement that exists to talk in six minutes about everything that is in Category 9: all health care, all social care, all elderly care, all the important care for the children in our country who are most vulnerable and all policies dealing with people with disabilities. It's a large area. As you can see, this means that I will only be able to make a few short cuts in all the efforts made by the Christian Democrats in their budget. The Christian Democrats had a great responsibility for this area under the previous government. Then, after eight years of alliance rule, we could see how healthcare and care were improved in areas by area. We could see how access to care increased, how patients became more satisfied and how the results of care improved. Just a few weeks ago, we received a report showing that this trend has unfortunately been broken. We are seeing today how patients feel less satisfied – not only compared to the past, but above all when compared to other countries. Nowhere else in Europe are patients today more dissatisfied with their own country's care than in our country. We can see how the queues are growing again. This does not happen automatically, but because today we have a government that does not give priority to the major challenges of health care and society. One of the government's very first efforts – and almost the only one – in the area of health care was that it was already stated in its first government declaration that it intended to remove the queue billions. We introduced it because we saw that we had a major problem with all the patients who were waiting for care but were not receiving the care they needed. It does not help that care is good when you get to it if you do not get the care you need. Recent reports of the open comparisons show that more than one patient in four who has been told by their doctor that they are entitled to treatment and need a care intervention has still not received that intervention after three months. It is more than a doubling in just a few years, and it depends on the policy pursued by the current government. That is why we want to reintroduce the cue billions and do exactly what we did during the time it existed: for each year increase the pressure on the medical authorities to deliver care on time to the patients who need it. This concerns the first important visit, where you find out what is wrong, but also all the way through the care chain, at every opportunity when you need a new intervention. Improving and developing is something completely different from dismantling. Those of you who have heard the Minister for Health say that this was something we agreed to abolish can go back and read the protocols, decisions, motions and budgets of the alliance parties. There you can see that each time we have said that we want to continue to increase and develop queue billions in order for more patients to receive care on time. But there are other areas that are also incredibly important for us to be able to meet healthcare challenges in the future. Today we do not have an organisation that allows us to deliver the best care to all patients throughout the country. That is why we Christian Democrats have said that we need to do the health care reform of the century. It is totally unacceptable that your chances of surviving with a certain diagnosis are determined by where in the country you live. Today we have a design that means that county councils as health professionals have different conditions for providing adequate care. By having a greater government responsibility for hospital care, the highly specialised care, we could provide more equal care and receive more care for the money for all patients across the country. We Christian Democrats also have extensive efforts in our budget, not least for children and the elderly. It is groups in our society that often have great needs. To make just a few impacts in our efforts, we set aside 100 million for a meal lift in elderly care. It is not okay that there are older people who are starving today, in their own home or in their nursing home. We also focus on the social content of care for the elderly. We invest in health care teams so that long-term health care training staff can concentrate on what they are trained for, and so that we can bring in more staff groups that can make life for the elderly better in health care. But we also want to invest in more research and development so that we can have better care for the elderly in the future. We therefore want to set up three regional centres for dementia, where we can invest in learning more and developing knowledge about the diseases of ageing. When it comes to children, we invest in a student health guarantee. We know that pupil health is often the first-line health care for our children and young people. In order for them every day at school to have the opportunity to get in touch with student health care, proper efforts need to be made. We are also committed to shortening waiting times to BUP, improving the transfer from child and youth psychiatry to adult psychiatry and identifying the causes of mental illness in young people, which unfortunately continues to increase. We are also committed to better support for families and parents early in their children's lives and throughout childhood. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have a completely different budget option, with much greater efforts in this area than the government has. If our budget as a whole had been in place, we would of course have insisted on it. Now the framework of our budget has not been approved, and we therefore have no reservation on this matter. But, of course, we are behind our budget, which would have provided better conditions for our country's citizens.
i-3332cf619e423afa-345	Mr President, I would like to Emma! D u lives here in the county. You write in your statement that leadership is needed for better and safer births. It is also you who have been responsible. It is always interesting to see what happens in practice when the Alliance, or perhaps the former Alliance, governs the Riksdag. In Stockholm County Council BB Sophia was laid down, which caused a birth crisis in Stockholm that we are still living with. It was a market experiment, as much else has been. I am referring to this because Stockholm has been the big right-hand window when it comes to health care. You want the cue billions again. Then my first question is how the queue billion could fix the birth in Stockholm County. It should be remembered that both the Medical Association and the National Board of Health and Welfare were against queue billions because they saw displacement effects, especially for the multi-sick. My second question is about care for the elderly. You were in power for eight years. Between 2006 and 2014, during your government, 9 619 places in special accommodations disappeared. Now you have included a retirement home guarantee in your proposal, while rejecting investment aid of 150 million. I would very much like to know how you reason on this.
i-3332cf619e423afa-350	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to maternity care, we see challenges in this county, a county that is constantly growing. These challenges have existed ever since the Social Democratically ruled county council in those days closed one of the birth clinics that was then very well functioning – the one that was in Nacka. Since then, we have had a capacity challenge, but it has consistently been built up and expanded. The major challenge in today's maternity care around the country is the effects of the Social Democratically led and left-wing county councils. I visited Kalmar County earlier this autumn, where it was announced that at the time at Västervik Hospital there was only one regular midwife left. All other posts had to be filled by hired staff who did not know the procedures. Nor could man be manned during the time required for manning. This is a serious risk to patient safety, and it also carries the risk that you will eventually have to close birth clinics. The challenge we face with regard to the highly specialised professions in health care where we need skills is, above all, a matter of personnel policy. The medical authorities today are not able to deliver a work environment that makes the staff want to stay. During our time in the government, we expanded training places to a large extent, and that work needs to continue. But above all, we need to make sure that you can enjoy your work. We see that sick leave is hugely higher for public employers than for private ones. Yet the Left Party is leading the hunt for all other actors in healthcare – those we can see in all kinds of surveys are better employers and with whom the workers want to work.
i-3332cf619e423afa-354	Mr President, I would like to We're not hunting. We're in pursuit of the winnings. When we look at the return on operational capital in the welfare sector, we see that health care is 51% compared to the service sector, which is 10%. So there is some work to be done. I will return to the queue billion you want to bring in and ask again: In what way does Emma Henriksson believe that a queue billion would remedy that 600 seats are empty in Stockholm County right now? They are like closed because of the crisis that exists here in the county, and it is also crisis in other counties. In what way does Emma Henriksson think the queue billionaire can fix this? It's what she says about staff. This situation has not arisen for two years, just like that, but is about how to dig out of welfare for a long period of time. That is how I see this question. The queue billion has been attacked by both the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Medical Association to see that it has evasive effects. So, as far as care for the elderly is concerned, again, you closed down 9 619 seats. Now you want a retirement home guarantee. You should have thought of that in your eight years, I think. At the same time, you say no to the government's investment aid of 150 million. That doesn't make any sense to me. How's that working out for you?
i-3332cf619e423afa-358	Mr President, I would like to On the one hand, we invest considerably more in our budget than the government does in the budget that the Left Party supports precisely on the expansion of housing facilities in the care of the elderly, and we did so during the time we were in government, and on the other hand we had a comprehensive policy for the housing sector at all. A great deal of what we initiated makes us see today an increase in housing construction. These are therefore rather long-term housing building processes, whether they are ordinary housing, youth housing or housing for older people. We see an increased rate of housing thanks to the housing policy that the Christian Democrats were involved in leading in the previous government. Back to the cue billion. Left-wing parties, social democrats and environmentalists who talk about the queue billion claim something that you have no evidence of. They say there were displacement effects. If we go back to the studies that exist, they indicate that there was a risk of evasive effects. It was something we were aware of. That was something we set up investigations into, because we want to know whether this risk is real. There was an experience that it could be, and that was something we took very seriously. That is why we also repeatedly screwed the queue billions to avoid the risk of evasive effects. We are well aware of the criticism that existed; that is why we also wanted to develop queue billions in order to increase accessibility and, above all, with focus in the later stages, i.e. those with chronic diseases and serious illnesses. What we now see is that the queues are growing for both chronics, for those waiting for treatment and for those who want to come to the doctor for a first visit. We are now seeing the results out there among the citizens. Today, people no longer trust that care is there when they need it, and above all, they are dissatisfied with accessibility.
i-3332cf619e423afa-364	Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson concluded her speech by regretting that the budgetary framework proposed by the Christian Democrats did not go through. Perhaps, Mr President, she would rather be happy about it, because if we look at what the Christian Democrats are proposing in their budget for Category 9, which we are debating here today, we see that the funding is not enough. Although more than the government is being proposed, 4.5 billion, it is also being reduced by 10 billion in Category 25, which is therefore a contribution to municipalities and county councils. So it was with that bet. There wasn't any more left. Perhaps we should have an account in this House of how we have thought this would end up working together.
i-3332cf619e423afa-366	Mr President, I would like to More than happy, because if you look at the government's budget in detail, you can see in particular the impact of the government's tax policy on the large employers' organisation, which is the health and municipal care sector. In particular, when taxes are raised for employers, taxes are being increased for the public sector, something that quite quickly eats up quite a lot of what the government promises as investments – money that, by the way, seems to be spent quite a lot of times. It is true that the government gives more in a bag to municipalities and county councils, but it does not show how much municipalities and county councils have to pay in the form of the tax increases that the government has proposed. The fact that the Christian Democrats are proposing more efforts in the area of health is because we see that this is where we have major challenges. That is where more needs to be done in order for us to be able to trust the care and get the best possible care, no matter where in the country we live. As I mentioned in my speech, we are making efforts in the area of the elderly and also in the area of young people. But there are also specific areas where we see the government wasting money. I can only mention the move of the E-Health Agency where the government certainly has an extra investment of SEK 30 million in the budget, which may sound nice. What you do, however, is to move an authority from Stockholm to Kalmar, and 95 percent of the staff do not follow. This is an authority whose activities are important for us to benefit in the future from all the knowledge available in healthcare so that patients get what they already expect: that the doctor you meet can look in the medical records regardless of whether you have been with that doctor or any other doctor before. With the move of the E-Health Agency, the government has made it more expensive and worse for patients.
i-3332cf619e423afa-372	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats are fairly agreed that healthcare and care are also, for that matter, facing major challenges. Major reforms are needed, and many efforts are needed. But we don't agree on how to do it. Emma Henriksson mentioned that the government is handing over a bag of money. Yes, you can actually put it that way. The government has listened to what county councils and municipalities say: You do not want a state-specific control and perhaps not a detailed control from the Christian Democrats, in which your budget is a display. Mr President, I would like to In his study, Göran Stiernstedt has shown that detailed management is perhaps one of the biggest obstacles to achieving more effective healthcare and better organisation. For example, we can look at the proposal to reintroduce a cue billion. It caused quite a lot in health care. We got a budget management right into the meeting between care providers and patients who were not very good at all. We need to be able to rely on the profession and on the health professionals to do this on their own. This is why the government has instead introduced a billion-dollar profession, which will create the conditions for healthcare professionals to use their professionalism and skills to develop forms of work and organisation in healthcare.
i-3332cf619e423afa-376	Mr President, I would like to The government's budget includes some other things besides the general one, where we see that the 10 billion in some municipalities are used to build sports halls, although the government is talking about this going to the most important part of the business. There is also a whole host of the detailed regulation that Anna-Lena Sörenson has now criticised. Let us take the example of children's glasses. Very many county councils had this earlier – in fact all in some form. But now you go in and regulate how it should be done, which in Stockholm County Council for example means that no children will have cheaper or easier access to glasses. However, the cost to taxpayers has increased considerably as the government imposes on county councils a certain administrative system for how to solve it. Talk about steering into details and also at a higher cost to taxpayers! We're not against children being able to have glasses. However, such decisions should remain on the health authorities as long as they have this responsibility. We Christian Democrats also say that there are areas where county councils today have responsibility but are unable to take it sufficiently for the benefit of all patients throughout the country. That is why we need greater government governance. It is also something that several investigations have come up with, and they show that there could be gains in this. The Christian Democrats have many efforts, of which the queue billion is one, which shows that if you pay for someone doing what they should and succeed in doing so, you can also shorten the queues. You take away the queue billions, and now we see the effect: Queues have grown, and not just a little. They've grown a lot.
i-PdgkXQFt9iK8RG2ycNrSUL	Mr President, I would like to Social policy issues are now under debate, which includes EUR 68 billion for 2017. Thank you, Emma Henriksson, for a good introduction! Sweden is often described as one of the best countries in the world to live and grow up in, but we need to do more to ensure that this development continues and keeps up the same high pace. Sweden is challenged by a new and growing exclusion that soon includes 1 million people. We see growing care queues, and when the average time for a social security secretary is down to four hours a week for individual conversations, we have a crisis in social services. Many people live in a good world and have a good life in Sweden with jobs, family and leisure activities. But many people live in a completely different part of reality – on the back and in a shadow society. Then it is not good enough that the safety net, even though it is extensive, allows people to fall between the chairs. It is not good enough for older people to stop eating loneliness. It is not good enough that patients wait for lung cancer treatment three times as long in Dalarna as in other parts of Sweden. It is not good enough to be left alone and to live with a multi-functional disability. That's not good enough. Sweden can do better. Our society should not give up on anyone. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish government now appears to be both weak and lost. After two full years – we are now talking about half the term of office – they have not used the power to make the necessary reforms, to present the concrete proposals and to return to Parliament with the needs that exist regarding the challenges of reforms for health care, for the elderly and in the field of social services. Every day, the employees of welfare are doing great work in managing everyday life. But the societal challenges are growing, and the government must then show leadership. The Moderates and alliance parties safeguard a well-being and its important quality, accessibility and continuity. Swedish healthcare is of high international standard. But we Moderates and alliance parties don't have to stand on TV and make it up. The government and the Minister for Health, on the other hand, felt pressured and pressured and thus spoke untruth. Instead, the government should present concrete proposals to overcome the growing healthcare queues. When an effective kitchen cleaning reform is removed, why does it not present a better alternative as an answer? In addition to growing care queues, it is clear that the challenges are landing in the second major part, namely the welfare employees. Within ten years, we are talking about a shortage of over 200 000 employees in Swedish welfare. It requires reforms. Short-term reforms are absolutely necessary to solve what is urgent here and now in order to meet the basic needs of the safety nets that we have. But above all, it requires a long-term and sustainable strategy for how to maintain, but also, of course, continue to recruit new employees who want to work with people in vulnerability and illness or in need of care. The third major challenge facing Sweden is the increasing number of multi-sick elderly people, who today prefer to be sent on trips between health professionals or other principals than to give them the necessary care and care. It is also about chronicles, who suffer from waiting times and lack of continuity and thus become sicker in the healthcare system than healthier. The challenges call for solutions, concrete proposals and clear leadership and action plans. Then it is important to start acting and present them overall. Our ambitions, together with the other parties in the Alliance, are clear: to strengthen quality and to keep the meeting with patients, patients and the elderly in focus all the time in order to make the meeting even more valuable. This is where quality arises – between the health care, welfare, employees and individuals. It is that meeting that should be strengthened. Other, bureaucratic and administrative, measures should, of course, stand back. I naturally support all the moderate proposals that have been put forward during the budget debates and the funding that is in place, but I would like to mention a few in my introduction. We want concrete measures and national action plans to shorten waiting times in healthcare, increase accessibility, work with the coherent care chains and create overall responsibility for the patient. We have presented a national long-term personnel supply strategy with different parts both to maintain and to recruit. It is about reducing mental illness, not least among children and young people. We are making efforts to further strengthen supervision and follow-up. We see the need for a meal lift for the elderly, and we see the importance of the elderly not suffering from loneliness and vulnerability. We are therefore also presenting concrete proposals for this. These concrete measures now stand against an empty bill list from the Ministry of Social Affairs. After two years, we expect more – activity, action plans and concrete measures. I hope, Mr President, that we can have a good and fruitful debate during the moment that is coming.
i-3332cf619e423afa-392	Mr President, I would like to You are putting a little less money into the budget in this area, Cecilia. It's in itself only 435 million. However, I would like to mention that. You have a fine portal – our society should not give up anyone – and it sounds almost like a left-wing party would have written it. I would like to remind you of what happened during your years in power. In 2006, Sweden had the lowest proportion of poor people in the Nordic countries and after two terms of office we had the highest proportion of poor people. I just want to say it. It was probably about the politics that you conducted. It is stated in your budget that you want a performance-based health guarantee. Then I wonder: How do you think it would work in Stockholm County? I take Stockholm as an example, because it has been your big shop window and a bit of an experimental workshop. I think this is interesting. How would the performance guarantee affect? Would it in any way help with the 606 seats that are now empty? Should you get a better staff policy in Stockholm County Council, which is the largest county council in Sweden and includes a lot of people who are currently living in a kind of care crisis? You have removed and said no to rather strange things. For example, you have taken away money to work with antibiotic resistance at the Swedish Public Health Agency. It's a small sum, but you can still think about it. You have also removed 40 million who have gone to work with newly arrived people with mental illness. I'm sure you and I would have had to flee Aleppo, for example. These are some small questions for you, Cecilia Widegren, to which I hope to get answers.
i-3332cf619e423afa-398	Mr President, I would like to I'll do my best to live up to this. I'd be happy to take the left-wing game of resources to welfare. It is true that there is a difference of approximately 0.7 percentage points between your option in this area of expenditure and our option. The big difference is in category 25, which is also part of the state budget, where we choose to send 20 additional billions compared to Karin Rågsjö's party to municipalities and county councils. So please come back to the game of resources to the welfare! The Moderates have chosen to prioritise it even more than the Left Party. I think that we have dealt with this very issue in a commendable way by looking at the entire state budget. The second question, linked to accessibility, is quite interesting. Of course, it is clear that we have both a shortage of places and staff, and we have a number of challenges. This calls for action from the Ministry of Social Affairs to be taken at national level as well. The responsibility can't just lie with the principals out there somewhere. The Health Act is as much the Left Party's responsibility as the supporters of this government. Where are the measures? Where are the concrete proposals? Right now you should stay in Halland or in Jönköping to get the best availability in terms of, for example, surgery within three months. You should definitely not live in Västernorrland, Västerbotten or Jämtland, because the county councils that have the toughest things get no support or any resources from the government. It is extremely important not only to talk but also to come up with the concrete measures, Karin Rågsjö. Now that the Left Party is hanging on to the government, it is also necessary that the Left Party is involved in pushing forward these reforms and concrete measures. Where are the reforms and concrete measures, Karin Rågsjö?
i-3332cf619e423afa-404	Mr President, I would like to I will come back to our very good negotiated reforms. The best I think is the 10 billion that we are targeting precisely municipalities and county councils and that we will have to follow up, because it is of course extremely important to see where the money lands. Paper is one thing, words are one thing and then you can look at reality. I believe that your performance healthcare guarantee would do nothing in a county council like Stockholm County Council where there is a crisis in all areas precisely because a lot of work has been done with the care choices. Your melody is: Out with everything! The economy is quite crunchy in a county council that is super rich. Here you have ruled, and this is the reality that is created by your policy. You pull up Västernorrland and Jämtland and so on. There are problems, and there are also rural problems. It's about human resources. For example, how do you get doctors to stay? How do you get nurses to enjoy themselves? One must of course have a reasonable working environment. Care must also be taken to have decent salaries, decent working hours and to ensure that people work shorter on their schedules throughout the health care system. There's so much more you can do. You also had the opportunity to develop these reforms precisely for the health and safety at work. What is happening now is not a consequence of the last two years, but is a development that we have been able to review over time. You took 140 billion from welfare to tax cuts, and if you do, things happen in social services, health care, assistance – you name it. If they also work to increase profits for the business community, for health capital, money disappears straight out of welfare and straight into their pockets.
i-3332cf619e423afa-409	Mr President, I would like to The reality of the Moderates is greater than Stockholm. It actually includes the whole of Sweden, and the conditions are extremely different. Karin Rågsjö chose not to listen to my introduction, which was about how we should strengthen the national skills supply strategy and not just let it be a task for the health professionals. The state should go in and take greater responsibility. But since Karin Rågsjö had already prepared the question for me, she did not hear that part of the introduction, nor when I told her about the investments that the Moderates make in their budget option. I regret that, Karin Rågsjö. It is extremely clear that accessibility is a concern for this government and for the Left Party. We may have one of the best health systems in the world, but it is based on people being treated within a reasonable time. There, the Left Party has a responsibility as long as you sit as an anchor on this government when you negotiate the budget. There are no concrete measures to repair the performance-related effort that the queue billion was anyway. It turned out that a strategy with clarity, goals and filling halved the queues for a number of years in Sweden. No one can take that away from us. Every analyst who's looked at this can testify to that. You actively removed this – the Left Party has a great responsibility in it – and nothing else has been presented since then. You can't just stand around and watch this happen. Reality does not stop at the tariffs in Stockholm; Sweden is bigger than Stockholm. The Left Party has a greater responsibility than just sitting on the government's knees and letting the government do nothing. Perhaps it is time that the Left Party took the budget negotiations a little more seriously.
i-3332cf619e423afa-413	Mr President, I would like to We are here today debating Category 9 Health, health and social care. Unfortunately, it is not only dark out now when it is winter, but it is also dark when it comes to Swedish welfare that is increasingly beginning to crack in the joints. I am talking, not least, about health care and the unacceptably long care queues. In October, one out of every four surgical patients had waited longer than the 90 days of the health guarantee. It is therefore more than 123 000 people who do not receive the care to which they are entitled. That's twice as much a figure as four years ago. We now have the longest healthcare queues in Europe together with a few other countries. I am extremely worried about the situation. It is shameful and a betrayal of the people of Sweden. Let me give you an example. The median waiting time for men who have suffered from aggressive prostate cancer is from diagnosis to treatment almost six months. This means that half of the patients have to wait even longer. The word disaster should not be used unnecessarily, but with today's situation it is justified. First of all, it is a disaster for individual patients and their families, but it is also a disaster for confidence in Swedish healthcare and in society at large. Nothing indicates that the healthcare queues will decline for the foreseeable future, partly because of the large population increase we have had in recent years, and partly because the government seems totally paralysed on this extremely important issue. Mr President, I would like to Recently, the National Board of Health and Medical Care presented a report to asylum seekers and other refugees. Unfortunately, it is not an encouraging reading. The report shows that healthcare is under great strain in both the short and long term. Some of the consequences mentioned in the report are that the lack of care places means a worse working environment that makes the staff even more stressed than it was before. In addition, it states that preventive health promotion measures should stand back. This applies, for example, to cell sampling on women. In Blekinge there were over 1,000 people who were not called because maternal care was so heavily strained. Children's and adults' psychiatry, which has already been heavily strained, faces new and larger challenges. Infectious care is also severely strained, according to the report. Tuberculosis, HIV and hepatitis are more common among asylum seekers than among the indigenous population. It is the same with dental care, which faces new and major challenges. Several county councils report that the dental status of affected groups is similar to the situation in Sweden 40 years ago. This means that consumption of care will increase more and more in the future. In conclusion, it can be said that the large immigration we have seen in recent years will not relieve the burden on Swedish healthcare that we are facing, but on the contrary, the queues will increase and accessibility will deteriorate. Mr President, I would like to Several parts of the healthcare system are failing today. Therefore, several different changes and reinforcements will also be needed to restore confidence in Swedish healthcare, which is at the bottom of the European average. Let me give you a few examples. We have for many years wanted to invest in more care places. Sweden has very few care places compared to many other countries. In fact, the number is lowest among comparable OECD countries, and that, of course, is not reasonable. But care places must also be staffed by trained staff. Here we have a challenge to deal with. Then let us be humble and say that we can only solve it together with the most important resource of health care, the staff. Only by investing in it can we tackle the problems. It should also be remembered that the medical job today is no longer something cold, as it may have been in the past. This places new demands on the employer to offer better working conditions. It may be the right to full-time or part-time work. But it is also about removing the shared tours that are devastating to the staff. The possibility of further training for staff is also important in order to enable them to develop in their professional role and thus increase their salary. We also want to have the opportunity for health care staff to avoid a withdrawal day in case of special events, such as an outbreak of winter vomiting disease in a department. It is already done in some hospitals around the country. We may also want to do the nursing job as a licence profession. This is already the case today in the majority of European countries. This is part of our proposals to make the health profession more attractive. Only then can we get people to seek and want to educate themselves in the health professions. But it is also a question of attracting back staff who have left the care profession. It should be remembered that there are about 10 000 trained nurses in the country who work in other industries. In addition, there are another 5 300 who work with education and administration. The conclusion is that there is a reserve of trained nurses that health care can attract back by offering better conditions. We need to take advantage of that resource. Mr President, I would like to We also want to invest in psychiatric care, which is a neglected area where the queues are too long. We can never accept that people suffer unnecessarily because they do not get help on time. It should be remembered that when you feel mentally ill, asking for help can often be an enormous step. It is therefore unacceptable that people who have come so far that they dare to ask for help have to wait as long as today. I see my speaking time is going out. Another area we want to invest in is palliative care. We believe that health care must work. Human ore must be able to rely on them to get help when they get sick. Otherwise, we are undermining confidence not only in health care but also in the whole political system and the willingness to pay taxes and contribute to welfare. It is also for us that it should be an equal and fair care regardless of where you live in the country. The Swedish population has the right to demand an accessible and patient-safe care. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. That is why we are spending 13 billion more than the government during the budgetary period in this important area.
i-3332cf619e423afa-435	Mr President, I would like to You represent a party that lives very much on myths in different ways, Per Ramhorn. What you're saying sounds very clever in its own way. That is 2 billion more than the government is proposing. If you look a little more carefully in your budget, you will see that you have a minus contribution to the municipalities of SEK 26 billion for 2017, and it will increase to SEK 4 7 billion by 2020. You could say, "Hey, what's going on, if you're in power!" That's one thing. You've been one of the cheerleaders when it comes to government assistance. Maybe it's miswritten. But if you look at your budget, you see a negative item in your government assistance. I wonder, then, how have you been such a great pusher to avoid touching state aid? It's about 111 million, if I didn't see it wrong. This is on page 23 of the committee's report. I'd like to talk to you first about the city money.
i-NpV7JHzrQj7vCMLzcx9zpZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Karin Rågsjö! I'll start with the LSS and the claims that we want to pull down. That's wrong. It is a group that we want to protect. Of course, we have received these figures from the parliamentary investigation service. It is based on the immigration policy that we have proposed. In brief, it means that if fewer people with needs come here, there will also be a less strain on welfare, health care and LSS. These figures are public, and everyone can take part of them. If you remember, I asked you exactly a year ago to read the memo that existed. I also brought the memo with me here. It is stated in the memo on expenditure per allocation period. It is so clever that you go down on every grant. In the case of LSS, the cost in 2017 would be 159 million for new arrivals and family migration. That is why we have spent less on that expenditure. It can be a little hard to keep up, but I can take it afterwards. Our expenditure was 111 million, but the real expenditure is 159. It is not easy to understand a budget, but you have to read the whole. I have it here, and you can have it right after.
i-3332cf619e423afa-445	Mr President, I would like to I think it's really easy, Per Ramhorn, to see what you're after. You can be seven years old and fix it. Here's the thing, Per: The whole welfare system, elderly care and health care would collapse if we didn't have immigration. You can read a lot of reports about what immigration brings, can't you? You fluff around among the figures and say in full seriousness that you can cut by 47 billion in municipalities by 2020, and it will look great if immigrants disappear. There may also be other groups you want to place on different islands, what do I know? Your budget is not transparent at all. If you also look at what immigration brings, I promise you will get on the plus side if we have a good integration and do not do what you want to do. When you talk about the assistance, I say: Wow! Well! It is clear that it is 111 300 000. It is, of course, the immigrants who should not have any assistance. Actually, I should have been able to figure that out. Oh, my God! Well, that was stupid of me.
i-7n1DYe28eGJczJmiEgp6rB	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin. I don't really know what's so hard to understand. Parliament's investigation service is so clever. It calculates both revenue and expenditure. Of course, income is also included here, and it is deducted from expenditure. The figure they've come up with is not our numbers. It is that the cost would be 159 million. We're not the ones who figured it out. As for the other, without immigration Sweden stays: Yes, I have worked with immigrants for many years. Of course. But it has nothing to do with the new immigration, which we want to limit. The government has now also understood that we need to do so. Do not say that we have some strange ideas about immigration, that we want to throw out and want both! Karin also knows that this is not the case.
i-3332cf619e423afa-453	Mr President, I would like to In the six minutes at my disposal when we discuss perhaps the most important area in Parliament, there are five issues I would like to highlight. Firstly, when you sit here and listen to the speeches, you get a little bit of the picture that the 60 billion that we here in Parliament have stands for the entire funding of welfare. Let me get you out of that delusion. It is a tenth of the money that Swedish welfare costs that we are debating today. Welfare costs about 600 billion; it is 60 of them that we have at our disposal. Having said that, the most important issue and the challenge we have in this is how to cope with the future financing of welfare. How should we ensure that there is more money for Swedish welfare? The important thing is not really the debate we are having today, but rather the debate on economic policy, because there is a dividing line in Swedish politics. On the left, it is believed that more money for welfare will be obtained by raising taxes. We in the Center Party and the Alliance say that this is not the case, but we get more money for welfare by ensuring that more people get into work. Secondly, sitting on the Social Affairs Committee during this period is a rather easy task. There are no proposals from the government at all. Well, in the first autumn we received a proposal, and that was that the free choice of care should be removed. The country's politicians would decide; patients would not be allowed to choose. That proposal was quickly withdrawn because it was so poorly prepared. And now we've actually got another bill, and that's to expand the possibilities for free spray exchange. In the Social Affairs Committee we are doing study visits, and we call in lecturers. We have a very nice life. I see that the Minister of Health is spending his time making study visits around the country. It is clear that this would be a good thing if the situation were that there were no problems or challenges in the Swedish health care system or the Swedish elderly care system. But that's not the case. All of us who move out in reality know that the problems and challenges are great. The reports we receive to the Social Affairs Committee show that queues are increasing, that there are more and more patients who do not have a fixed medical contact and that confidence in Swedish healthcare is falling. In this situation, we in the Social Affairs Committee devote ourselves to study visits and lectures, which is due to a striking inaction on the part of the government. There are no proposals at all. Thirdly, over the last ten-year period, we have received a number of well-functioning units in Swedish welfare. I am talking about Nya Närvården up in northern Jämtland, where you finally – in northern Jämtland, in sparsely populated areas – have received a functional primary care that is not based on relay doctors. I am talking about Bollnäs Hospital in the interior of Norrland, which during Aleri's operation has become one of the very best small hospitals in Sweden. I am talking about Diaverum at Visby Hospital, where one of the best dialysis units in the country is now available. This is chosen from the left side and the government's side to go in a crusade against. This is going out of business because the profits of these companies are tantamount to theft from taxpayers, if you can quote the Minister of Civil Affairs. So there are very big challenges in Swedish welfare, but you choose to go with precision to those units in welfare that actually work well and try to pull the carpet away for them. Fourthly, there is – even we on the alliance side suffered or suffered from this disease – a preference for using special-destined grants, not least in health care, because we believe that our 50, 100 and 150 million in state subsidies will solve the most enormous problems we face. Recently, a report from the Swedish National Audit Office showed that nothing could be more wrong. Targeted state grants destroy the ability to follow the order of priorities. They create twitchiness in the business. Staff do not believe that this is the right way to solve the problems. That is why we in the Center Party have chosen to withdraw a number of the targeted state grants, to actually trust our friends in municipalities and county councils and to increase the general state grants so that they have the opportunity to solve the responsibilities they have. Fifthly and lastly, I think that this debate should be about one of the really large items of expenditure in the Committee on Social Affairs' budget, namely assistance payments. I believe that everyone who is in here has been very strongly affected by what is happening today with those people who are dependent on assistance in order to manage their daily lives. This is where the e-mails come, and this is where we meet the people. After Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson went out just over a year ago and said that assistance is an area where we will ensure that costs are reduced, the effect has been extremely clear. No less than six proposals have come from the government, which consistently tackles assistance and the people who are eligible for assistance. This is not just about the letter of regulation. It is not just about the directives for the investigation to cut money. It's not just about removing the advance payment. It is also a question of removing the reduction in the social security contributions for young people, which hit the private assistance companies hard. This is not least about the crusade against private companies. This is tragic, and I understand that Minister Regnér chooses not to be present in this House today to defend the fact that she has done these measures on behalf of the Minister for Finance, but instead chooses to talk about an equality authority that is apparently to be located in Gothenburg. I understand that, because she finds it very difficult to explain to the aid recipients why she has caused this in such a short time.
i-3332cf619e423afa-467	Mr President, I would like to Anders W Jonsson showed the dividing line that goes between us in terms of our view of economic policy and how we should finance welfare. I would remind you that for eight years with a bourgeois government in which the Center Party was part, taxes were reduced by 140 billion and left behind 5 percent fewer welfare workers in that sector. In addition, it ended up with higher unemployment in 2014 than it was in 2006. Nevertheless, we must take this into account in this debate. Anders W Jonsson points out that they want more general state grants. We support this – we think it is a good idea with more general state subsidies. There the Center is deeply divided with its bourgeois comrade parties. I still have to ask you a question. The Center Party reduces the opportunities for county councils, regions and municipalities to take this responsibility and work with healthcare and other care. You're pulling away the possibilities for them. It looks as if you are spending more money, but you are withdrawing all the more because you are not compensating for the targeted state subsidies contained in the government's budget. One example is the professional billion, which you withdraw without putting back money. It ends at minus.
i-3332cf619e423afa-472	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Anna-Lena Sörenson for raising two important issues in this discussion. The first is how to cope with the future financing of welfare. There she is absolutely right – we reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by 140 billion. But if you look at the total resources for the local government sector, i.e. those responsible for this, you can see that in 2006 they had 656 billion at their disposal. In 2014, they had 880 billion. You heard correctly: 656 billion in 2006 and 880 billion in 2014. If you stand here and call it a cut in the welfare sector in Sweden, you need some extra counting exercises, I think. This also shows the difference between us. We make sure people get to work. That way, we'll get more tax money. Instead, the left-hand side chooses to increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. This will lead to less money for health care, school and care. We have shown that our reasoning is correct, and we will unfortunately see the consequence of the sharp tax increases that have been made. As far as targeted state subsidies are concerned, I welcome the fact that the Social Democrats share our view. But I also understand that, in order to buy the Left Party's support, these small, specialised contributions have to be duped. It's about 100 million h is and 150 million there. It would be better if you were consistent, as we have been. We ensure that the targeted state subsidies provide for 12 billion more per year. That is what our friends in municipalities and county councils are asking for. They want financial means to carry out their responsibilities. They don't want pickets from Helgeandsholmen.
i-3332cf619e423afa-476	Mr President, I would like to The government has also heard exactly this and has taken a line with more general state subsidies. But the fact remains, Mr President: in the Center Party's budget, it will be a negative item for municipalities and county councils. They get less. You take 1 crown from medical care and give back 5 cents. That's about it. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the issue of LSS and personal assistance, which Mr Anders raised. It's a concern that we all share. We see people falling between the chairs. We will have to share in tragic events that occur. There are difficult situations for many people. Today there has been a report by the ISF on this subject. I don't know if Anders W Jonsson has had time to look at it. I've only had time to read the summary myself. The ISF points out that there is a huge lack of clarity as to the responsibility of the different heads. Of course, you need to get to grips with this. The conclusion of the ISF is that this must be resolved by legislative changes, and it is already in the directives for the long investigation. But something must also be done before 2018. I think we can agree on that. Now I was not involved in dealing with these issues during the last parliamentary term, but it was Anders W Jonsson. From what I understand, there was already a need for legislative changes. It tried constructively to convince the then government and the KD ministers that this needs to be addressed. But nothing was done. Could we not once again be able to hook arms – instead of politicising this and creating conflicts – and try to solve these difficult problems for a great many people? There's a basis for that, I think.
i-3332cf619e423afa-480	Mr President, I would like to I think this is an interesting change of line that clearly shows the difference between the Center Party and the Social Democrats. We want to create more money in Swedish welfare by ensuring that more people get into work and that small businesses can grow. Four out of five new jobs come in small businesses. That is why we say no to the sharp tax increases that you are doing on jobs and entrepreneurship. We know that in the long term it will mean less money for health care, school and care. You have a completely different view: if we just raise taxes enough, we will have a few billion extra in the short term, which we can then dunk out in the form of special-destined subsidies to municipalities and county councils, you think. There is an extremely clear difference there. Then I think it is good that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is addressing the issue of assistance. Here we can see something completely new in Swedish politics. It was Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson who just over a year ago pointed out the assistance compensation – where we will save money, she said. Then six different measures have been taken, all of which strike with precision at the people who need assistance. It is about the removal of the social security rebate for young people. It is a crusade against private welfare companies, and it means punishing those who have chosen private assistance companies. If it is the case that the private assistance company is committing a theft against taxpayers, then it must be the case that the poor person who has chosen a private assistance company is an accessory to the theft. Other things are the regulation letter, not listing the cost and the directives for the investigation. I am sorry, Mr President. I do not recognize the Social Democrats, who are going after one of the most vulnerable groups we have in Swedish society. I'm extremely disappointed.
i-3332cf619e423afa-483	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit bombastic to talk about crusades when it comes to private companies in the healthcare sector, Anders. But we have quite a few with us on the train. 70 - 80 percent of the population do not think that we should be enriched by our tax money. I have been around Sweden a lot, not only in Stockholm, as it may sound, but throughout Sweden. I've visited a lot of private entrepreneurs. Some are good, some are less good, just like in the public sector. Looking at the return on operating capital in the welfare field, you understand: Wow, this is a profitable industry! In the health care sector, 51% are successful. Social efforts are even more profitable. That's 72%. This compares with the service sector, where it is 10%. It's not the companies we're against, it's the profits. The less money spent in the welfare sector, the better it feels like talking to you. You have spent 5 billion less in your budget in this area of welfare. You think we spend money, but we think that the 10 billion a year that should go to municipalities and county councils is pretty good. We are pleased with that negotiation. Then I have to ask you about the maternity care. Here we have a rather important initiative, we think. You've removed funds for that. The injuries in childbirth are very widespread today. We're not in very good shape, even if we have a very good profession. This is a gender equality issue and a patient safety issue. We allocate SEK 400 million per year during our term of office. You don't think it's a good idea. How do you want to slow down the birth defects? That's my first question to you.
i-3332cf619e423afa-488	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I use the concept of the Crusades, when it comes to the work of the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party to combat private companies in the welfare sector. What is absolutely crucial for us in the Center Party is that it should be high quality, satisfied patients and satisfied staff who are happy to continue working. Furthermore, if it is the case that this company can have positive results, we have nothing against it. The Left Party has a fundamentally different view. The important thing is not that it is high quality, that the patients are satisfied and that the staff are satisfied and happy to work. The left side is completely involved in the mode of operation. It's the crucial thing. If it is a private company that also has a positive result, it should be removed at all costs. If, on the other hand, it is a public actor who may have dissatisfied patients, dissatisfied staff and also poor quality and negative results, then the Left Party has no duplicates at all. I usually quote an old Chinese Communist who said: It doesn't matter if the cat is black or white – the main thing is that it catches rats. This is exactly the same position we in the Center Party have with regard to welfare companies. Then it is interesting that Karin Rågsjö highlights the issue of childbirth. I think it is very good that today we have such an overview of the birth operations in Sweden that we can monitor in detail how birth injuries develop. I am the first to say: something has to be done here. Here we must encourage the profession to go forward and look at who is doing well and who is doing less well. It is about transparent comparisons and quality registers. It is not a question of pampering a few millions from the Swedish parliament. That is not what will solve the problems of birth defects; it is precisely the fact that the positive examples are highlighted and that others can follow suit.
i-3332cf619e423afa-493	Mr President, I would like to Anders! I've just read some reports about the maternity care and these funds. It is obvious that they have fallen out very well, because this is an issue that matters very much in county councils. Childbirth services haven't been able to do this. Half of all those who give birth vaginally have injuries in one way or another. There's too many of them. That's a very high number, I think. Then you have to work against it. Don't confuse me with Chinese Communists, please! Then you're on the wrong path. Of course, private companies should be of good quality. We have never said that we are against quality, satisfied staff, you name it. But we're against the profits. It is clear that with a return on operating capital of 51 % in the health sector and 10 % in the service sector, there is gold to be earned. That is what we are opposed to. I am surprised that you stand by this. These companies flourish and get to pick out any profits. You do not come from Stockholm, Anders, but I would still advise you to do a little tour of Stockholm County Council and look at what it looks like and also read what works and what doesn't. You're talking about our lobbying and other people's. Oh, my God, look at the healthcare companies! Look at Almega and the millions there! Now I'm coming back to maternity care. I am surprised that you are still against the funds that are being set aside. I believe that the other parties in the Alliance – we discussed this last year, although I almost repressed it – are on that train, but you are against. You're cutting down 5 billion on the entire area. I think that is very significant for you: the less money, the better, it seems.
i-3332cf619e423afa-499	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with our view of private companies in the welfare sector. We are prepared to set tough quality standards, both for private companies and for public operators. We are prepared to listen to what patients say. We are prepared to support those units that can actually attract staff. For us, it's not uninteresting. But whether on the last row you have black or red numbers and whether you are a public or private player is not interesting. It is quality, satisfied patients and patients and satisfied staff that we start from. Instead, you are based on operating form and whether or not it goes backwards. Then there is an interesting discussion about how we should manage Swedish healthcare. Swedish healthcare costs around 300 billion. So there is an enormous amount of resources there. One-tenth of that is the state subsidies from here. There are most of the pharmaceutical costs, which we are responsible for. Then the Left Party believes that if we only produce a so-called 'tat grant' of 50, 100 or 150 million and point out a certain diagnosis or measure, we can control Swedish health care. The Swedish National Audit Office's report clearly shows that this overrides the county councils' ability to work according to the order of priority that exists in the healthcare sector, and the effect is also limited. Instead, the important way to reduce birth injuries and at all improve the quality of Swedish healthcare is for us in the state to ensure that there are quality registers in as many areas as possible, that they are public and that patients and staff can easily go in and see what kind of results they have in the various birth clinics. These are the things that drive development. If it is typical of both midwives and midwives, it is that they are competitive, and if they see that someone else is better, they do what they can to improve themselves.
i-3332cf619e423afa-502	Mr President, I would like to This area of expenditure is very broad. It's basically about what's closest to people from the moment they're born until they go to the grave. This is illustrated by the fact that the area at government level is led by two ministers. I regret that Åsa Regnér is not able to be here, because that means that questions about care for the elderly and assistance as well as disability issues, which we were dealing with just now, must be taken during General Question Time this afternoon, when she is present. This is a broad field, and it is very dependent on what is being done in other sectors of society, which are being discussed in other areas of expenditure. It is about school and higher education to create opportunities for young people to get really good jobs. It is about jobs, and what the Liberals stand for there is in other parts of the budget discussion. You just got into this with the treasure. I have lived for a long time and worked at the time when we had a very heavy tax burden. This meant that it did not pay off to work, compared with self - repairing houses and homes and doing other things. Now we have a better situation in society, and it has also affected unemployment. Many more people are in work today, and that is fundamental to well-being. We are now discussing the part for which the state is responsible. It is important that we have a proper balance between the actors responsible for the area. The state has its responsibility with legislation, supervision and setting up investigations – look at Göran Stiernstedt's study on effective healthcare, which was mentioned just now, and the proposals that came out there. According to what the Swedish National Audit Office has said, the point investments have had an effect – even an opposite effect compared to what they wanted to achieve. Göran Stiernstedt, who is not here and can say it himself, usually calls these contributions poisoned money. We'll be careful of them. What we are going to do instead, and which Göran Stiernstedt has made good proposals, is to use the resources we have in a much more efficient way. In Stockholm County Council and Norrtälje Municipality we see positive results where, based on Göran Stiernstedt's idea, they work with a health care and an elderly care that hooks arm. Then we will save a lot more money than the size of the contributions we are discussing here. Then we must be clear about the responsibilities of county councils. In this budget, the government's draft budget has begun to take over responsibility for county council tasks. Take this with mammography. I, who have been involved in the studies that showed the benefit of mammography, are of course passionate about these studies, but it is the county councils' responsibility to carry them out, and it is also the county councils, in addition to the individual women, that benefit from the early detection of cancer. There are other bets here, such as free birth control pills. Norrbotten has shown what a positive effect it has. It has a positive effect on women who use the pill, but it also has a positive effect on the county council, because abortion rates can be reduced. The state should not go in and take over things that the county councils should manage on their own. Here we also have midwives and maternity care. Through the quality registers, we have the opportunity to follow the quality. It should ring the bells of those in charge if you see birth defects. The municipalities are responsible for school and care for the elderly. They had to take over responsibility for the health care in their homes, and that responsibility had to be taken over by them. We have figures on who does it well and who does it badly. There are also suggestions in Göran Stiernstedt's study on how to get better. There is also much knowledge out there in the care of the elderly in the country about how to achieve high quality within the framework of existing resources. The point-by-point investments are therefore something of poisoned money, as Göran Stiernstedt says. There are many details of the Liberals' budget options, but you can read about this for yourself in our specific opinion.
i-3332cf619e423afa-512	Mr President, I would like to Barbro! I also think that the model Norrtälje has, ten hundred, works great. I guess that's the only thing that works in this county council. Another question that you have raised concerns the mammography. We have negotiated free mammography. We have done this because it is an issue of equal health. We have discussed this issue in the past. You can look at more wealthy areas, such as Sävedalen outside Gothenburg. There, 84 percent goes to the mammography. In Bergsjön, 54 percent walk. Then you understand. This is what it looks like in both Stockholm and Malmö. We think that a free mammography would work very well together with other measures. The WHO has recently published a study showing that organized population-based screening programmes can reduce breast cancer mortality by about 20 percent. There are 150 000 women per year who don't come to the mammography – so many have low income and poor health. They're in danger of getting breast cancer. We believe that this is a welfare reform and an equality reform. You don't think so. Therefore, I would like to know: how are we going to get the 150 000 women to go to the mammography? That's my first question.
i-3332cf619e423afa-516	Mr President, I would like to This should, of course, be done by providing women with effective information on the benefits of this. I think a lot of people are giving up because they don't know what they could get. This is particularly true in densely populated areas. But I believe that this is a county council responsibility. There is nothing to prevent a county council from doing free surveys. I would like to see this extended to 75-year-olds and older people. It is something that we have been pushing, not least in the National Council for Medical Ethics. The age limit is set based on the age limits chosen by the researchers. The National Board of Health and Welfare, where I was in charge, was at that time actually involved in making that limitation. But we did not foresee that it would then lead to recommending only mammography to the age group that had been involved in the studies. Breast cancer does not stop at 75 years of age. It continues unabated. But this is a county council responsibility. It is up to the county councils to decide what fee it should be or whether it should be free of charge. It is in the county council's own interest to find the tumors as early as possible. In addition to the individual woman making a human profit, costs are reduced.
i-3332cf619e423afa-519	Mr President, I would like to I do not think, Mr Barbro, that equality in health is directly increasing. Then I think it is a state responsibility to identify those areas where one must somehow rise in county councils. It is not reasonable for women with short education and who often come from other countries to have a much worse health status than educated women have. It's not worthy. Then I'm gonna ask you something else. It is about parents now being able to collect free medicine for their children. Poverty has unfortunately increased in Sweden. In 2008, 12% of the population had income below the limit of the EU's definition of poverty. In 2014, it was 15 per cent. So this is an increase. It is about parents who work double shifts or who may be unemployed and who find it difficult to get the macaroni enough. The entire ex-Allians say no to this reform. Don't you think it's worth spending money on this? You spend money on contributions to ROT and RUT and all that's called. Nevertheless, this is an effort directed at parents who have a relatively bad economy. Their children may not be given the medication they need. It is about that we have had more poor people in Sweden for a number of years, strangely enough also during the period when you were in power.
i-3332cf619e423afa-522	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, but here's where everyone gets the benefit. There are a lot of people who could actually pay 200 bucks a month for drugs. It covers all the children in the family. In that case, I believe that the money should be directed to those who most need it. It is the same with the dental allowance that is now being given to 65-74-year-olds. It's another 150 bucks for all 65-74-year-olds. It is the group of pensioners in society who have the best pensions. I would take the 100 million and direct them to those pensioners who only have a guarantee pension, a very low pension, so that they can afford implants. It's a similar thought. You spend all this money, and most of the people who get it could pay for themselves. It does not target those who actually need the money. I believe that we need to carry out proper analyses of how we should support those below the poverty line more effectively than we do today.
i-3332cf619e423afa-525	Mr President, I would like to The goal of building society for us Social Democrats is a country in work and in cohesion. A country that is characterised by equality and sustainability is also a country that has the conditions for good growth. It is a country which can meet the demands and needs of its citizens and which provides opportunities for everyone to live a life of freedom and security. It builds a society in which every citizen is involved, able to fulfil his or her responsibilities and able to realise his or her dreams. The Swedish model with clear regulations on the labour market, a tight and sustainable fiscal policy and a general and good welfare create the basis for such a society. After the elections, we Social Democrats had to take over a society characterised by eight years of tax cuts and welfare cuts. The number of employees in welfare decreased relative to the population. That is why, Mr President, it is very gratifying but also necessary that the government should now make the greatest effort for a very long time by allocating 10 permanent billions to prosperity annually. The government has also listened to municipalities, county councils and regions and allocates the money without earmarking so that they can be used to meet needs based on the conditions prevailing locally and regionally. The addition will make a big difference. This will enable municipalities and county councils to develop welfare, and it creates conditions for more colleagues and more hands in healthcare, care and school. Mr President, I would like to The part of the state budget that we are debating today, category 9, includes additional government efforts, such as free dental care for young people and free contraception for people up to 21 years old. It is also appropriate to recall that the Government's long-term efforts in health care and social care continue. Agreements with Sweden's municipalities and county councils to develop standardised healthcare courses within cancer care have proved very successful. The initiative will continue in 2017. The widespread mental illness among children and young people is alarming. The government continues its work to meet the needs there. I believe that we agree that access to health care is at the heart of feeling secure and confident in health care. But we need to fix the basic problems rather than just relieve the symptoms. The Government's continued efforts to develop forms of work in healthcare through professional billions are an important way of enabling healthcare professionals to organise their work in order to meet the demand for quality and accessibility. Efforts to achieve more equal health care also continue through targeted primary care efforts and interventions in maternity care. Mr President, I would like to Against this stands a divided bourgeoisie, where one has completely different views on the challenges of welfare and how to face them. On a quick look at the table of appropriations in our report, it becomes clear that the range between the alliance parties is very large, from the Centre Party cuts of almost 5 billion to the Christian Democrats' increase in expenditure of just over 4.5 billion. This fragmentation is not just about how much money is spent. It is also about the view on governance of health care, the priorities you want to make, and about human views and values. Mr President, I would like to In their draft budget, the Moderates allocate to Category 9 almost 436 million less than the government, and this, at the same time as they say they want to meet the challenges facing health care, care, psychiatry and social services. It is very difficult to get a grip on Moderate welfare policy and how their draft budget hits the local government sector. However, an attempt at closer scrutiny finds a proposal for 2017 that affects the local government sector with reductions of approximately 4.5 billion. In the Committee on Social Affairs' area of expenditure, there are some earmarkings, sometimes even down to the level of detail, but most of them are more or less hidden repriorities. So what is it that the Moderates want to cut down on? Are these women's health efforts? Do you want to cut down on maternity care? Is it the concern for our elderly people that we want to cut back on? Once again, major tax cuts must take precedence over a responsible commitment to care and welfare. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party's proposal is a display of cutbacks and lacks ambition and vision for welfare. For every crown that the Center Party takes from health care, they give back 5 cents in general government grants. KD's investment in the expenditure area exceeds the government's investment by 4.5 billion, but it should be known that KD is also proposing reductions in general government contributions of over 10 billion. That was the case with those bets. Liberals are making cuts in health care and care in just over half a billion. The symbolic efforts made in health care are financed by taking resources from health care and care for the year-long. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government is proposing an investment in welfare that is greater than in many years. Now we are creating good conditions to create security for people who have experienced – and for those who will be involved – building a sustainable Sweden in work and participation.
i-3332cf619e423afa-543	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Social Democrats are empty of proposals and of measures – the bulk of the speech just now was an attack on the opposition parties. However, we are pleased that we are getting so much interest. I'll try to sort this out with the welfare billions. The Moderates therefore spend more than the government on welfare, overall. I would like Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson and the Parliamentary Chancellor of the Social Democrats to go home and put together the whole of all areas of expenditure. If this does not make things easier, I even have a clear picture of what this looks like – the Moderates' budget options mean 20 billion more to municipalities and county councils – to welfare – in the coming years. I have two clear questions for Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson. We face major challenges in terms of social services and care for the elderly. Nevertheless, the responsible minister does not choose to give priority to the debate on the budget for the coming year. As a result, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson will be responsible for the government. My first question is linked to the crisis of social services. Since the election, more than 90 municipalities in Sweden, from north to south, have signed up for the lex Sarah themselves, because they do not feel that they have the ability to meet the current requirements. When will the concrete measures taken by the government to support, assist and facilitate local authorities in their work, so that more than an average of four hours a week can be devoted to individual talks and time? A month ago in this House we had a debate on assistance. Minister Åsa Regnér said that there is a problem with 10 percent of the 30 billion being used for advertising and sponsorship. It is thus 3 billion a year that the government believes goes to advertising and sponsorship. However, there are no facts, evidence or investigation that point to this. My question to Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is therefore whether she shares the Government's view that it is 10% that is currently going to sponsorship and advertising.
i-3332cf619e423afa-549	Mr President, I would like to Earlier in the debate, Cecilia Widegren referred to Category 25 to show that the Moderates allocate a number of billions more than the government does. This is impenetrable matter, but on closer sight there are other areas where major cuts are made. All in all, there is a minus of almost SEK 4.5 billion. These are areas of expenditure 10, 14, 16, 17 and 18 – areas that have not been identified here. As I said, this is impenetrable matter, but as we have read this, you are well below what the government is doing. In addition, the government has an additional sum of 40 million each year, which the Moderates cannot compare with either. As far as the crisis of social services is concerned, this crisis was already taking place when the moderate-led government left the government. Of course, this needs to be addressed in many ways, but I cannot quite understand how social services are served by the budget presented by the Moderates here today, in Category 9, which represents a minus of 436 million. There will be a review of the Social Services Act, where it is likely that many good proposals will be made on how to address this. In addition, incentives have been put in place in previous years to work on this. I'll have to get back to the assistance in the next line.
i-3332cf619e423afa-555	Mr President, I would like to I hope it is not symptomatic that the government should return to assistance. I believe that this is the most urgent issue at the moment – that is certainly the case for those individuals who are affected and falling between the chairs. My question is linked to the basis used by the Government in the debate, which I think is substandard. I think it is important that we start from the same picture of reality if we are to come up with concrete measures. Does Anna-Lena Sörenson share the view that this is about 10 %, that is, 3 billion, used for advertising and sponsorship in personal assistance? Or is this figure taken out of the air by the government and thus a task that is not based on analysis and pure facts? My first question answered Anna-Lena Sörenson clearly that there are investigations looking at these issues, but we have not been given any concrete measures here. It would be desirable for the Social Democrats to go back to the Ministry of Social Affairs and look a little more at what they want to do in concrete terms to bring about better development. It is the case, Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, that the municipalities continue to lex Sarah-notify themselves, because you are not able to cope with. It goes without saying that national aid is needed to make this possible. We have presented one in our draft budget and we will come back with further concrete measures. A national action plan for Sweden's social secretary and social services is needed to overcome this. As far as welfare billions are concerned, I believe that the Parliamentary Office of the Social Democrats should use another calculator to bring together the whole of the state budget. It is because, overall, we have presented more efforts than the government on welfare. This does not relate to the respective expenditure area – where Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson reads quite correctly – but in total it is an investment of 20 billion more in the coming years.
i-3332cf619e423afa-561	Mr President, I would like to As regards the basis for what the Minister of Social Affairs has said about personal assistance, there are a number of reports, and I do not understand why we should suddenly question the experts we have at our disposal to produce a basis. As far as this 10% is concerned, it is rather, as I have heard from the Social Insurance Agency, a figure that does not specifically cover sponsorship and advertising, but is about wrong payments. It also includes cheating and pure crime. According to the Director-General, this is a figure that is applicable in most areas. As far as the expert base is concerned, I do not understand why this particular case should be called into question. Mr President, I would like to I have to ask whether Cecilia Widegren has taken note of the report from the Social Security Inspection which has come to our attention today. It is interesting to take part in. It lands in something we've known for a long time. We in Parliament and in the committees have known that the judges who have arrived – 2009, 2012 and 2015, I think – can have very difficult consequences for many people. There have been initiatives in the past to try to get to grips with this. The previous government chose not to. Anders W Jonsson chose not to answer this earlier, but during the last parliamentary term we had more or less an agreement between the parties to try to do this together and influence the ministers. I think it would be desirable, good and tasty if we could get back to that position again instead of constantly trying to create conflict in this very difficult area.
i-3332cf619e423afa-568	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democracy that I know has always striven to stand on the side of the weak, at least in the speeches. As a result, I do not recognize today's social democracy. A little over a year ago, the Minister of Finance went out and said that the area on which money could be saved in the state budget was precisely the assistance allowance. Since then, there have been a number of concrete government decisions directed directly at those people who need the support of society most, that is, those who are entitled to personal assistance. It started with removing the discount on the employer's contribution for young people. The municipalities were compensated, but the private assistance companies were not compensated. This punishes those who have chosen a private assistance company. The private assistance companies are being crept hunted. The Government of Shekarabi said that it is theft from taxpayers if a private assistance company shows black figures. Yes, but what does it do for those eligible for assistance who have chosen one of the private assistance companies because they think it is good quality and good staff and are very satisfied with it? Are they also contributing to the theft from taxpayers? The regulation letter gives an order to Försäkringskassan to be restrictive in its application. In a situation where, according to the Swedish model, wage costs have increased by more than 2 per cent, you choose to list the fee by just over 1 per cent. Finally, a directive is added to a state inquiry to reduce the cost of assistance compensation. My question to Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson is: Do you, like your Minister for Finance, think that the area where we in Sweden should save money is precisely about those people who need the support of society most, namely those eligible for assistance?
i-3332cf619e423afa-573	Mr President, I would like to Anders W Jonsson says he does not recognize today's Social Democrats. But does Anders W Jonsson really believe that the Social Democrats deliberately want to make things worse for the people who are the most difficult in our country, that we would deliberately want to pull away from those who have legitimate demands and the right to personal assistance in order to live a life of participation and freedom? Does Anders W Jonsson really mean that we are pursuing such a policy with some sort of hidden agenda? I must return the question. Don't the Center Party and Anders W Jonsson see a challenge in the fact that this reform is actually exposed? It has been discussed for many years, even during the government in which Anders W Jonsson's party was involved, but which did nothing about the issue. Does Anders W Jonsson think that it is reasonable to have a development where the number of hours and costs increase, while the people who receive assistance support do not increase much? Many people are dissatisfied with the efforts they receive, the assessments are different across the country and there is an inequality between women and men. The headmanship does not seem to function without incentives, so you push these problems back and forth. What is Anders W Jonsson's and the Center Party's solution? I have not heard any proposal on this. You're not supposed to do anything about this? Is that responsibility?
i-3332cf619e423afa-576	Mr President, I would like to I do not think this is about a hidden agenda from the government – the Green Party and the Social Democrats – side. It is a very open agenda. The country's Finance Minister stands and points out that it is precisely in this budget account, assistance payments, that savings are to be made. It's not a hidden agenda. It is very much an open agenda. Do we not know, then, that the people who depend on assistance are some of those who need the support of society most? We know that there are very many private companies in the assistance industry, because the persons entitled to assistance have actually chosen a private operator and not a municipal operator. Then we have a Minister of Civil Affairs who says that if those companies go with plus results, that is to say, profit, it is a theft from the taxpayer. If there had been only one decision that the government had made that was directly directed against people's right to assistance, I could say: Okay, this was probably a mistake at work, they didn't understand better. But it's not just one thing you've decided on. It is not on less than six different points that the government consistently makes decisions, sometimes with the support of the Left Party and sometimes not, that are directed directly at the people who need assistance and, above all, those who have chosen a private assistance company. I am the first to say that this is a problematic area. But what the government should have done is sit down and look at what the cost increase is due to and whether having this well-functioning system can be a saving for society as a whole. If this had been done, we would have been able to make decisions in broad agreement across the block border. Instead, it chooses to go directly to those people who need the support of society most precisely in six different government decisions. Therefore, I understand that Minister Åsa chooses to talk about other things instead of participating in this debate.
i-3332cf619e423afa-580	Mr President, I would like to Anders W Jonsson chooses to slip on the facts in this case. I think he knows very well that the government has not taken a single decision involving cuts in personal assistance. He talks about restrictions in the regulatory letter. There are no such things, and Anders W Jonsson knows that. He knows exactly what was said in the regulation letter, and it was absolutely not about that. He chooses to shift focus to other areas instead of answering my questions. How are we to tackle this challenge that we all see and that we saw during the previous government? Investigations were commissioned, which were then just put aside and done nothing about. In a change of line earlier in the debate, I tried to reach out and said: Should we not do this together? After all, we see the problem, and it was also seen during the last parliamentary term. We could see that the judgments that came could have consequences, that people fall between the chairs, and that is exactly what this report also shows today. And it is because the principals have an unclear responsibility and are unable to gather themselves together and give these people the support and help they need. Then we need to look at the law in the long term and probably make changes in it, so that the people who need and have the right to receive personal assistance will also get it. Why can't we do it instead of creating conflicts around it? Yes, it is probably to simply win cheap political points at the expense of people who are having a very difficult time in society.
i-3332cf619e423afa-585	Mr President, I would like to I will also concentrate on the law on support and service for people with great needs and their opportunities to live a life like others. This is one of the most important elements of this spending area and one in which the government has done enormous damage so far during this parliamentary term. Nevertheless, I am prepared to listen to Social Democrats and hope that Anna-Lena Sörenson will be able to comment today on a statement by another member of the committee, Mikael Dahlqvist, in a debate on 24 November. We Christian Democrats who have been responsible for this area know that it is an area in which the individual budget line has been increasing for a number of years. It was a concern that we had. Above all, it is an area in which we felt that we had to monitor carefully what the increase in costs was due to. Therefore, there are a number of reports, to which the minister responsible sometimes refers, and they provide some answers, such as that half of the increase can be clearly explained by population growth, that those in need of assistance have grown older and that the scale of needs has increased. Then there are some question marks left. But the government has chosen to set up an investigation that clearly states that all development within the entire LSS will be financed with savings in the assistance compensation. It is also said that, in view of significant increases in the cost of assistance payments, additional savings also need to be made. Mikael Dahlqvist opened the seminar a few weeks ago because the government parties are prepared to give other directions to the investigation if this is the problem. We and those who depend on this say that's the problem.
i-3332cf619e423afa-590	Mr President, I would like to Once again, we hear a Member slip on the facts and say that the government has done enormous damage. That's not true. I see that the report that came today is in Emma Henriksson's place, and it says that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has done what the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court are asking them to do. It is a decision that forms the basis for what the Social Insurance Agency is doing today, not a decision by the government. This is what Emma Henriksson knows. Let's start from the report and look at what we see. Well, you can see that there is a lack of clarity in the responsibility between the principals. There are strong incentives for healthcare to shift responsibility to personal assistance, and there are of course incentives for Försäkringskassan to shift responsibility to the municipalities. Then there is a great risk of people getting rid of their assistance. It's black and white in the report. There is also a great risk of falling between the chairs and not getting any support or help at all. I believe that urgent action is needed to stop this. It also comes to the conclusion that we must withdraw, look at the law again and do the right thing. But there is no need for any changes in the directives for the Désirée Pethrus investigation. It's already there. What she is going to investigate and come up with is just how the reform works. Does it work the way it was supposed to? How are we going to deal with inequalities, differences in judgements, double headsmanship and so on? This is already included, so we do not need new directives. What other people have said, you can take them with you. I represent my point of view.
i-3332cf619e423afa-595	Mr President, I would like to I see, like everyone else who has followed the consequences of a change in the decision during the year, that judgments have also had an impact. It's obvious. The strange thing is that Försäkringskassan only this year has begun to apply, among other things, a judgment that came years ago. It is difficult not to see a connection with the clear regulatory letter that the agency received about breaking the number of hours – as the figures of the last month show that it also seems to have achieved. But my question was not about this. There are many things in the Investigation Directive that are important, such as the double headship and overwhelming of taxpayers' part in municipalities, county councils and states. However, there is one thing in the investigation directive that is cruelly problematic. It is that the government already decides in advance to do what the Minister of Finance said and to make savings without knowing whether it means increased costs elsewhere and without knowing whether it will mean that people still get what they are entitled to under the legislation. The investigation's directive says that the development of the other operations within LSS will be financed with savings in the assistance compensation, so the investigation must deliver. In addition, it is said that, in view of significant increases in the cost of assistance payments, additional savings also need to be made. Even before we have black on white what the cost increase consists of, the government wants to make savings and cut back. It will mean that people do not get what they are entitled to.
i-3332cf619e423afa-602	Mr President, I would like to Once again, Emma Henriksson discredits the experts and the reports we have at our disposal. I'm thinking why she's doing it. The reports show that there is an over-exploitation of this reform. Perhaps it is not 10%; one can certainly look at what the figures contain. But there is overexploitation, and this money may have to be spent on other things. Is there any area where we do not require cost control and want to know where the money goes? Do they go to the intended? Or do they run out somewhere else? This is what we do in all other areas. We do so in this type of rights legislation. We do this in health insurance and migration policy, for example. But we're not supposed to have cost control here, even though it's a lot of money. We are also seeing an increase that we cannot really explain. In the debate, the balance sheet issue has come up. It is in the nature of the reform that people should be able to work and participate in society and contribute. It is good if we can get a health economy or economics in the reforms we are making, but be careful to make it a criterion for getting personal assistance that you have to contribute to society and be health economic. It is already in the reform.
i-3332cf619e423afa-607	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have very good social security systems, which are discussed both in the SfU and in this committee. We want them to be fair, and there should be no economic loss in these systems. This means that we regulate detail and detail, which means that the Social Insurance Agency's staff drowns in detailed questions that should be addressed to them both in health insurance and to those in LSS. Some of these questions are almost offensive. We have a similar situation with regard to aid assessments in the care of the elderly. The staff are on their knees, and the caregivers feel offended by sitting in between. In our motion, we have highlighted the simplified processing of home care services that has been in Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson's constituency. But it's still waiting. It is long awaited because it facilitates social services, which can concentrate their time on more difficult matters. The year-rich people know very well what they need. Can I hear a little more about Linköpingsmo dellen and why it stops?
i-3332cf619e423afa-610	Mr President, I would like to Yes, one can certainly wonder, because this issue was driven from several quarters already under the previous government without much happening. It seems tough. It is even the case that there has been a court ruling that prohibits Linköping from using simplified aid assessment, as has been done for many years. Simplified aid assessment means that you can get home help for a few hours without an aid assessment. There has been no overexploitation, and people are very satisfied. It also frees up resources for social secretaries to engage in other things, such as outreach. In Linköping it has also been used in substance abuse care. In home care it has been good, but in substance abuse care it may have been even better. It has been possible to get an intervention without an investigation or an assessment of aid. It has been possible to get conversations, guidance and support without going to the social services and asking for treatment for substance abuse. This has enabled you to start taking the steps towards ending your addiction. But you can no longer do so under the law. There are other measures that we would also like to do within the municipalities, without an investigation. You may see that a child gets hurt at school, and then you can go in with early and preventive measures. I am Westerholm to Barbro that, as far as I understand, this will be in the directives on the new revision of the Social Services Act.
i-3332cf619e423afa-616	Mr President, I would like to I hope that legislative proposals will come to Parliament on these simplifications, because I believe that this is an important measure both for individuals and for the local, county and state finances. I had another question, which I would have asked Åsa Regnér, about the retirement homes. There is a shortage of care homes, which means that relatives and relatives are given responsibility for providing healthcare and care 24 hours a day. The relief via home care and home care is very weak. Housing has declined, both under the alliance government and under the current government. The Alliance government tried to speed up the construction through investment aid, which was greater than the government's contribution, and through other efforts. There was a little bit of speed, but I would have liked more.
i-3332cf619e423afa-620	Mr President, I would like to We share the Liberal view that this is a concern and that it does not go quickly enough. I'm just going to try and look quickly at my notes on how the Liberals have stood up to our investment aid. Barbros comrades have dismissed it, so you are deeply divided there. It is, of course, boring, because it is support for the municipalities to build. In the area of care for the elderly, housing and older people's policies, an investigation is in progress. There is a coordinator who will present a policy this spring, if I am not completely wrong, and who has a mandate to look at whether other forms of care for the elderly can be set up. Today we really only have two steps, both home care and nursing homes or special housing. There may be other forms that one might consider introducing. I think that is a way to go, but we will have to wait and see what proposals the investigator makes.
i-3332cf619e423afa-624	Mr President, I would like to We have talked a lot about the LSS, which is an important issue. I will talk about another important area in the Social Affairs Committee. As we know, health care analysis released a recent report comparing Swedish health care with three other countries with a similar level of welfare. The report found, among other things, that confidence in Swedish healthcare is record low: Only 31 per cent believe that healthcare works well. Three years ago it was 43 per cent. So it is a declining trend. In addition, Sweden is the second last in the measurements in relation to comparable countries. In terms of operational queues, according to SKL County Council Statistics, this is the worst situation since the measurement was introduced. By October, a quarter or more than 123,000 patients had waited longer than three months for their surgery. That's twice as many as four years ago. This is an extremely serious situation in which we find ourselves, and I think Mrs Sörenson agrees. My question is: how could things have gone so badly, what does the government have to say to everyone in the endless queues, and what solutions do you have?
i-3332cf619e423afa-628	Mr President, I would like to A good accessibility of healthcare is, as I said in my speech, A and O so that people can have confidence in the healthcare we have. It's basically good. Now Per Ramhorn chose to highlight the study and comparison with other countries. When we look at medical results and other things, Sweden stands out very well – it has to be stated. But, as I said, accessibility is important. We already saw at the end of the alliance government's time that the queues began to grow again. We have seen healthcare guarantees before; 15 to 20 years ago there was also a health guarantee that worked to a certain level. Then it seemed to have played out its role, and so the queues began to grow again. The government's analysis of the matter, as I was in my speech, is that the root cause must be addressed and not just the symptoms looked at. The root cause, as we see it, is an inefficient health care system in which health professionals are not allowed to deal with what they are trained for. There is far too much administration, you work on things that you are overqualified for and perhaps lack professional categories that should get into health care and make it more effective. Göran Stiernstedt has a whole series of suggestions on how to make healthcare more effective – I think the potential to streamline it was 12%. Access can also be addressed, because it is important. I agree, and I think we agree on that.
i-14gDPgadDLmmAQYoPXFvR6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson! It is true that the medical results are good, but what does it help when we do not have access and have to wait in the queues? In my speech, I mentioned that there are over 10 000 trained nurses who are trained but who work in other activities. Couldn't one way be to lure them back? A good start would be better conditions. It is said that the surgical queues are different in different county councils and for different diseases. However, it can be seen that some county councils have shorter operational queues and the capacity to receive more. Of course, such things need to be investigated, but could we not develop a form of system that makes better use of this and refers to it? You can already apply for care in other county councils, but often the patient must find out for himself, even though doctors and healthcare professionals should inform. This obviously does not happen in many cases. Does the government want to look at whether existing resources can be better used than today?
i-3332cf619e423afa-637	Mr President, I would like to I believe that improving staff conditions is part of the government's draft budget, and that is one of the proposals in Göran Stiernstedt's investigation. It is essential to do this. An effective healthcare system that makes better use of capacity and allows staff to work on what they are trained for and with which they have chosen to work, I believe in itself is a basis for retaining and recruiting staff. Then, of course, it is about wages and equal opportunities. This is a women's dominated area, and we need to work more on gender equality. The Swedish Democrats do not usually have a particular interest in this, but many times it is the basis for raising the status and increasing the possibilities of recruiting for health care. As far as the capacity of other county councils is concerned, it is already possible to do so, as Per Ramhorn said. It should be in the county councils' own interest to make the best use of capacity.
i-3332cf619e423afa-641	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The red-green feminist government is developing policy in all areas. However, with the speaking time limit set for this debate, it is not easy to describe both the feminist profile and the overall government governance of contributions to activities carried out by a total of about 530 000 civil servants. I am referring here to the 260 000 who work in the health care sector, the 240 000 who work in the health care sector in the municipalities and the 30 000 who work with individual and family care in the municipal sector, all of which are doing great work. We should not forget that there are another 150 000 people who are employed in the private sector but who are working to provide publicly funded care, care and services in the social sector. In total, therefore, the expenditure area covers the government's control of activities throughout the country, which provides employment for approximately 700 000 people. With a feminist profile in such a large policy area, which directly affects so many people, we should be able to see clear changes in value in society in the short term. I think so. Sweden is considered to have a very good health care in comparison with other countries. We spend over 11% of GDP on health care, and we have more doctors per 1,000 inhabitants than many other comparable countries. The government cost of health care is estimated in the draft budget for 2017 to increase by 1.5 billion, in relation to the forecast we have for this year. As has already been said by one of the previous speakers, this is primarily about increased pharmaceutical costs in this area. Mr President, I would like to Policy area 9 of the state budget is not only about health care but also about public health policy, disability policy, social services policy, children's rights policy, older people and research policy for all these areas. As municipalities spend over 180 billion and county councils over 230 billion in this area, it is clear, as someone pointed out, that government governance is not just about these 68.5 billion that will be added next year. Governance also takes place through laws and regulations. However, some of the money that the state provides is linked to specific tasks given by the state. In this context, I think there is a clear difference between the government and the opposition, which, in its budgets, chooses to control these state funds much harder than the red-green government does. As I understand the budget, we have a much greater belief that municipalities and county councils know best how they create the greatest possible benefit from the resources provided by the state. One example of this is the general investment in welfare that the government makes, where we increase state grants to municipalities and county councils by 10 billion in the future. But it is true that we also control detail. The government must do that when it implements reforms. I am a little surprised by the debate that has been here before. It seems that some opposition parties do not really see their own actions for many years. One example in this budget is that we strengthen dental care. On the one hand, we double the general dental allowance from SEK 150 to SEK 300 for everyone between the ages of 65 and 74, and on the other hand we exchange the free dental care for young people, so that it will apply from 2019 to young adults up to the age of 24. I note that the Moderates reject both of these proposals. It is regrettable that the Moderates are backing back to some sort of old right-wing policy, where they do not seem to understand that, regardless of which family they are born in, it is good with equal conditions for a successful working life. The dental status affects the self-confidence of the individual, and it is something that you have with you throughout your life and in terms of opportunities in the labour market. The question of an increased age limit for free dental care is something that we in the Green Party have pushed for many, including through motions in the Riksdag. That is why I personally think it is very good that we are now implementing this reform. The red-green government also continues to invest 500 million in cancer care, 200 million in maternity care and 400 million in women's health care. We also allocate 27 million to the reform on free contraception for young people under the age of 21. We are doing this not only because we think it is important to have the feminist profile on the budget, but primarily because these are disadvantaged areas. This is often the case in areas that primarily concern women's health or women at all. We have a long way to go in the area of gender equality there. Mr President, I would like to In 2016, the government increased support for elderly care by 2 billion for more staff. Many older people have thus gained better care with higher quality and increased security. In 2017, we will spend more money on welfare – a total of 10 billion. Some of this money will benefit the elderly in retirement homes and the elderly with home service; we are convinced of that. One of the government's priorities is children living in socially vulnerable situations. The work of the social services to help children who live in environments of abuse and violence or who otherwise suffer ill is one of the most urgent areas we consider to be. The government has from 2016, i.e. from this year, contributed 250 million to the municipalities' work on this. But here too, the extra 10 billion for the entire welfare, which we are now providing, creates better opportunities for municipalities to continue to improve the protection of the most vulnerable children and help them. The possibility of also hiring more social security secretaries not only makes it easier to help children who are in difficulties and are in vulnerable situations. It also benefits the working environment. In this way, we believe that more social secretaries and managers we see leaving the profession will be able to choose to stay and help develop social services. We believe that this is one of the important factors. It also provides a much more robust society that is less vulnerable. I support the committee's proposal.
i-3332cf619e423afa-659	Mr President, I would like to We have had a lot of discussion in this debate on the issue of assistance. It is because we all meet these children, young people and parents who have had a much tougher life after these decisions began to have an effect on the business. Last time I was with Ulla Andersson from the Left Party in Gävle and met a number of parents who described in detail the consequences that the government's decision has had. The Green Party is in a coalition government. This means that the Green Party must approve every decision the government makes. I would like to ask Jan Lindholm a question about how the discussion went in the Green Party's parliamentary group, when you thought it was perfectly okay to give the Swedish Social Insurance Agency an order in a regulatory letter to have a tougher application. How did the discussion in the Environmental Party's parliamentary group go when you gave the go-ahead to give an investigation directive specifying that initiatives within the LSS are to be financed through cuts in assistance? And not least: How did the discussion in the Green Party's parliamentary group go when you were well aware that the wage agreement gave a salary increase of just over 2 per cent to the personal assistants, while the compensation from the state was counted by only 1 per cent? You must then have seen in front of you what effect this would have on those people who are actually totally dependent on assistance. My question, then, is: how did you in the Green Party argue when you felt that these measures were perfectly acceptable to support?
i-3332cf619e423afa-664	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little surprised at your question, Anders W Jonsson. It sounds like you have no experience in political work at all. I'm afraid, given the way you formulate the question, I can't answer it. I don't think you could answer a question that was asked in the same way. The internal discussions taking place in the parliamentary groups are not public. As you ask the question, of course I cannot answer it. I think, as has already been said here, that you have a way of debating that means that you are exaggerating a great deal. The things you claim the government has done, the government has not done. It is therefore very strange to ask the question at all. There is no ambition from this government – it has been said many times by the minister responsible – to somehow reduce the opportunities for those who, under this legislation, are entitled to support, maintenance, assistance hours and so on. There is no such ambition at all; it has been pointed out extremely many times. Instead, this is a problem that you saw during the eight years you had, Anders W Jonsson, but which you did not manage. It is a problem in all rights laws, including in this one, that there is an abuse. There's a possibility of that. Personally, I think it is very much about the authorities responsible. The rules we have created are not always easy to manage, and therefore it will be possible for those who are smart to make use of this system – just like there are those who exploit others of society's different systems. We must work on this. You didn't do anything about it in your eight years. We have started to do something about this, and I think you should be happy about it.
i-3332cf619e423afa-668	Mr President, I would like to What Jan Lindholm is now saying is quite fascinating. He says that there is an abuse of assistance and that those who are smart take advantage of the systems. He says that it is the authorities' fault if something has happened; it certainly has nothing to do with the six government decisions that the Green Party has signed up to every one of them. If you listen to Jan Lindholm, you get the impression that this has not happened at all. But all of us who are out to meet these families, children and young people, read the newspapers and take note of the reports see that it was an incredibly clear effect in Sweden after Magdalena Andersson's statement that the government should save in this area. Personal assistance is no longer granted. This may not happen every day, but several times a week this is reported in the media. Jan Lindholm explains that the Environmental Party's reasoning to support government decisions was that there is an abuse of assistance and that it is those who are smart who have learned to use the system. If this has any negative consequences, it is not the responsibility of the Green Party and the government, but it is the responsibility of the authorities. Then I will inform Jan Lindholm that the authorities are doing exactly what the government has decided they will do. If the government says in its regulation letter to Försäkringskassan that it will begin to be more restrictive in its application when it decides on assistance, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has no alternative but to actually do exactly what the Swedish Environmental Party and the Social Democrats in the government have decided and written in the regulation letter that it should do. I now understand that the aim of the Green Party was to stop the abuse and the smart people who exploit the system.
i-3332cf619e423afa-672	Mr President, I would like to As usual, Anders W Jonsson is completely wrong. Maybe he doesn't know we have independent courts. The government and the Environmental Party do not sign any court decisions, but the courts act independently – and they are the ones that have affected the application of the Social Insurance Fund. I also think that Anders W Jonsson glides a lot in his formulations. I did not say what you said I did, Anders W Jonsson, but I told you that this occurs in many of the public systems we have. Take the tax system! There are many people who have their declarations reviewed and then have to pay contributions and taxes they had not paid. It exists in all areas where government money is handled. I think this is how it is: if we had not started to act on what you could not handle during your eight years, we would have received criticism from the other side. Then you would have started to say that we are irresponsible with tax money. The Social Insurance Agency has pointed out that they estimate that somewhere between 3 and 10 per cent of the money they pay is not spent on assistance hours, but on something else. You didn't take responsibility for that, but we're trying to do it.
i-3332cf619e423afa-675	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party and Jan Lindholm seem quite satisfied. After two years in power and a left-wing budget, it seems that the Green Party has now achieved everything it wants, and the challenges have been reduced. I would like to mention some of the draft budget Jan Lindholm and the Green Party which may not have received the attention it deserves. This is one of the biggest changes in this part of the state budget, namely a halving. A few weeks ago, it was International AIDS Day. The fight against HIV/ AIDS is ongoing. On the same day, the UN reported that HIV risks increasing by up to 60% in children and young people in the coming years. In Sweden, the situation is not as dramatic, but we are talking about at least 7 000 – 8 000 people infected with HIV. There is, however, a disturbance in the number of darkness – at a distance of 1,000 or more. Now, without any dialogue, the government and the Green Party have halved the support that all these organisations and representatives have anticipated for the coming years, without telling any of the NGOs involved, the government and the Green Party. This means that the Green Party believes that the fight against HIV/AIDS can be halved. It's not as urgent as it used to be. I am therefore keen, like all these organisations and representatives, to know firstly what analysis the Green Party is putting behind the halving of support for the fight against HIV/AIDS. Secondly, I would like to know whether it is no longer as important for the Green Party to combat HIV/AIDS in Sweden.
i-3332cf619e423afa-680	Mr President, I would like to I am such a politician who does not engage in discussions I do not master, so I can only say: I have not dealt with this issue, and I do not know it. I cannot therefore give an answer on this.
i-3332cf619e423afa-681	Mr President, I would like to I think we are all very sorry about this. The mail basket contains this type of mail to all of us who sit in Parliament. The mail box for the regular mail also contains this type of mail. When the government's budget bill dived down on September 20th, public health officials were shocked. The NGOs had no knowledge of this. It is a halving of support for a struggle that is still going on. The risks are absolutely lower in Sweden than in other countries, but this is an extremely vulnerable group that needs support and help locally, regionally and nationally. There are fantastic voluntary efforts every day for this, and now the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party are halving the support. You do everything you absolutely shouldn't do if you want to fight and get at something. I am surprised that the Green Party is not going through the entire budget base that is decided upon in its entirety. I also believe that it is Jan Lindholm who is responsible in the environmental party parliamentary group to inform his colleagues about what it looks like. This is very regrettable. But let us stay on the issue of urgency. Is it no longer as urgent for the Green Party to fight HIV/AIDS? Is that why the appropriations for those concerned are halved?
i-3332cf619e423afa-684	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I have not dealt with this issue. I don't know who did it. Personally, I think it is important that we continue to fight HIV/AIDS, but I cannot answer more than that. I can only say that you have missed my address if you have sent something by email, because I have not received information from any organisation – RFSL, RFSU or other – on this issue at all. It has been completely empty in my basket on these issues. I'm afraid so. I have no information or knowledge of this.
i-3332cf619e423afa-685	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by answering the question Jan Lindholm did not answer. Yes, there has been a halving of the subsidies, but it will not – it is clear – affect the organisations. The state funds for the fight against HIV/AIDS have been in place since 2006, and we in the Left Party may think that it would have been better to step down. Every year it is discovered that about 400 to 500 people in Sweden have HIV. As you know, the viral levels have been reduced by research, and you are no longer contagious if you go on medication. We hope that it is the organisations that will do the outreach work on HIV/AIDS – the work outside customs, so to speak – that will keep their money. Since 2006, county councils should have shouldered that responsibility long ago and started working on their own. We think a de-escalation would have been better. That's the answer. Mr President, I would like to There must be relevance in politics. Policies must respond to the needs, not to the needs of business, but to the needs of citizens. Politics should be about how we build equality in healthcare, how we create everyone's right to health. It should be about how we build a social service for those who need it most and a assistance based on needs. Politics should not be about how healthcare companies can increase profits. The Left negotiated 10 billion a year for welfare, to municipalities and county councils, throughout its term of office. It's money that's really needed. In alliance-led Stockholm County Council there are currently 606 care places due to a shortage of staff. It is 18 per cent of all health care places throughout the county and is comparable to if an entire hospital had been closed down. The right has always had Stockholm County Council as its shop window towards Sweden. Look how nice it can be in all of Sweden! Do as Stockholm! I think you've closed the blinds for that store. This has really hit the most sick people in the world. It's a kind of nursing crisis. Another care must be possible, but it requires policies that prioritise welfare rather than tax cuts. The 10 billion a year is needed. If the Left were to decide, we would take back the 140 billion that the Alliance chose to remove from welfare by massive tax cuts. Nurses, nurses, doctors, social workers and assistants are fighting for better working environment and working conditions and relevant salaries. There is no need for any further tax cuts. The left wants to highlight equal health. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in the Western world, and it is also increasing. Women with short education, low economics or foreign origin make up the majority of the 150,000 who do not go to check their breasts. The Cancer Society and the National Association of Breast Cancers think it's good to have free mammography. In a recent study, the WHO states that screening programs can reduce breast cancer mortality by about 20 percent. How can you, the entire Alliance, as I understand it, be against it? What do you say? It's hard to read from the Moderates' proposal, but I assume you're against it. In any case, we have negotiated EUR 207 million a year during the term of office for free mammography. Swedish maternal and maternity care is of high medical quality, according to international comparisons. But almost every other woman who gives birth vaginally gets some form of birth injury. That's a huge number. Reducing injuries is a gender equality issue and a patient safety issue. Now we set aside SEK 400 million a year to lift maternity care. Through the agency of the Left Party, it is invested in equal and equal health. Women should be respected and made visible. The Centre does not seem to think it is an urgent matter. You didn't add any money to it. We've discussed that. Besides, the center isn't in the hall anymore. We need a psychiatrist who meets his patients with respect and hope that it is possible to live with mental illness. 45 per cent of all ongoing sick leave reimbursed by Försäkringskassan is about mental illness. That's a huge number. 1.1 billion goes into the budget for the whole area. In addition, 40 million go to combat mental illness in the group of asylum seekers and new arrivals. The Left Party has also negotiated 250 million a year during its term of office to deal with mental health problems in young people. When it comes to care for the elderly, the staff are at the root of the problem. With 2 billion annually during the term of office, negotiated by the Left, we strengthen the staffing of elderly care. It is the staff who build care for the elderly. More staff will benefit the elderly and the staff teams. Higher staffing is a prerequisite for the staff to have time with the elderly, for example to get food for them. It's about providing good care. In terms of equal health, the Left has also negotiated 130 million in targeted efforts to reach those women with worse than average health. Women with short education have the worst health development. That's where we have to do something. Class and health go hand in hand. Here's the cold hand from all over the former Alliance. Think about it! Social services have received far too little resources to develop and strengthen over the last decade – well before the refugee wave. Now EUR 711 million is being spent on development in this area. And, of course, the 10 billion a year to the whole welfare sector also benefits social services. We have visited the State Department Board together. We want to increase their budget by 40 million. It's necessary. We should have done something for those children and young people a long time ago. This is the last stop for them. Then I'll give them everything. When it comes to assistance, the government will of course pursue profits in welfare, but the hunt will never ever be carried out on disabled people. They are completely dependent on personal assistance, not just to live but to live a life. There's a crazy difference in between. The Left Party brought with it two bourgeois parties, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, on the proposal to stop the Social Insurance Fund's cost-hunting in personal assistance. The government and the Moderates voted against the proposal. The center wasn't even in the hall when we voted, although it may sound like they were. But that was not the case. Moreover, we assume that those in need of assistance will receive it, not in order for them to survive, but in order for them to live. Here the government bears a great responsibility. Look in the budget, who spends extra money on assistance! It's actually just the Liberals. At least that's what the budget says. There is a need to step up work against unprecedented domestic violence against women. 251 women have been murdered by their partners since 2000. How those women lived was known by social services, prison services, etc. There can be so much more. A national strategy is now included in the draft budget. That's good. Welfare is based on equality together. The resources are supposed to go to well-being, not to the companies. I support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
i-TswZy2EE6vk2Cjqg3pB8Bc	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister Ann Linde. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-3332cf619e423afa-710	Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party have been very critical of the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan, where the government explicitly commissioned the agency to help break the development of the number of hours. This has led to enormous consequences and great concern on the part of those who have been affected. In DN on November 29, Åsa Regnér wrote that the government will now clarify the goal in the regulation letter for next year. In the article, however, it is not possible to see what that promise actually means. It is not surprising, therefore, that we do not feel completely secure with just a promise that the wording should be clarified without any signal as to how it should be done. I would therefore like to ask the Government to give concrete expression to the way in which it intends to clarify the objective and to ensure that the legislation is maintained in the 2017 regulatory letter.
i-3332cf619e423afa-713	Mr President, I would like to In the current regulatory letter that Maj Karlsson referred to, there are also other things. It says, for example, that the right person should get the right input, that one should work to ensure that the assessments are done in the same way throughout the country. It also states that there should be quality and legal certainty in the proceedings. The sentence that you raised is about the fact that we know that hours in the assistance compensation have sometimes been spent by some rogue performers other than for assistance hours. We've wanted to get to that. In the new regulation letter, we will make it clear that it is not about savings in general in assistance or that it would be about us wanting to change the law. We have not, and we will not. But it is about having better control of the use of the funds so that the right person gets the right input.
i-3332cf619e423afa-716	Mr President, I would like to I still want to know: Will this wording remain or will it be changed? What we want is a guarantee that it is people's needs that are to be governing and nothing else. The reasons we have heard about, but what we want insurance about is that the consequences that this has led to should not continue in 2017.
i-3332cf619e423afa-717	Mr President, I would like to I'm not sure everyone's heard about the reasons why we've written like that. We will clarify the regulatory letter. It is a matter of checking that the hours are used for what it was intended. The regulation letter will come quite soon, and then you can see how we have expressed it. We are going to change the wording, but I am not backing the fact that I want taxpayers' money to be spent on the people who are entitled to the efforts. This is about 30 billion a year, and it is important for all of us, I believe, that the money is being used properly.
i-3332cf619e423afa-720	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Gustav Fridolin. Last week, the PISA survey came. It is nice that the result now turns upwards and that we are going in the right direction. However, we cannot be satisfied with the increase in inequality between schools and between students. PISA measures equivalence with seven indicators. In two of these we stand still and in five we have deteriorated. It is serious that the indicators on family background and school socio-economic composition have deteriorated. The PISA measurement gives a picture of the Swedish school being torn apart and that there is an increasing difference between students. It's a development that's worrying. Teachers, principals and other staff at school want to contribute to the success of all children, and students have the right to do so.
i-3332cf619e423afa-726	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Svantorp describes PISA just as it shows. The Swedish school system has been pulled apart. Even according to those figures, it is every fifth 15-year-old who has difficulty reading a simple text. If we do not break inequality, we will never come up with the result and the knowledge that students deserve. We have to do three things. You have to bet on the schools that have been the toughest. During the previous government, very little of the money went to the schools that needed it most. Instead, we invest in those very schools and enter into agreements with them on school development. You have to bet on the students who are the toughest. Student health, staffed school libraries, good recreation centres and more time with teachers are important for everyone, but it is most important for those who need the school most. It must be ensured that it is not certain schools that everyone wants to go to and other schools that some remain in. Children with different backgrounds should meet at the same school.
i-3332cf619e423afa-730	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. The system that we have today means that schools will compete for students. If we are to succeed in reversing developments in terms of equivalence, about everyone's right to education and about reducing the differences between students and between schools, then I think we have to go after the forces that create segregation. We have to go after the systems. Does the Minister of Education believe that the market-driven school we have today can be equal?
i-3332cf619e423afa-733	Mr President, I would like to Today, most OECD countries are more successful in breaking up the influence of growing-up conditions in school results than Sweden does. Then we have to ask ourselves what goes wrong at system level. We must break the segregation of cities and municipalities in general, but we must also ensure that the school system does not slow down segregation. That is why we are calling for a school commission with representatives of the profession and the leading researchers to present their proposal in April, to which I assume all politicians are prepared to listen.
i-3332cf619e423afa-737	Mr President, I would like to Svenska Dagbladet has reported on asylum activism among the Swedish Immigration Service's employees. Evidence suggests that most administrators and decision-makers were against the government's austerity of migration policy, which entered into force on 20 July. The statistics speak contrary to the leadership of the Finnish Immigration Service. From May to June, the number of completed cases rose by good 20 per cent. At the same time, the percentage of consent rose from 50 to 62 per cent. In the month of July, the number of cases closed increased further, and the percentage of applications increased to as much as 71 per cent. This was also done during holiday periods. The day before the new rules were introduced, the number of cases closed more than doubled, while the percentage of applications reached as much as 87%. My question to the Minister for Migration is whether it is reasonable for the staff of the Migration Agency to deal with asylum activism.
i-3332cf619e423afa-739	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechels's statistics are misleading. First of all, there are always peaks in July year after year. But the month of July this year will not be the month in which the vast majority of cases are settled. As far as we have seen so far, it was in November when more than 15 000 decisions were taken. This is, of course, linked to the fact that the activities of the Migration Agency have gradually been expanded with more employees. I do not think that the kind of conclusions that Markus Wiechel draws are supported in the statistics. What we are now seeing is an increase in the number of decisions. The granting rate varies greatly depending on which groups are handled at different times. The Syrians, for example, receive almost 100% of their asylum applications, while other groups have a significantly lower level of granting.
i-3332cf619e423afa-744	Mr President, I would like to After the new rules came into force, the number of cases closed fell to a more anticipated level of 54%. Evidence has also pointed out that administrators explicitly pumped out new permanent residence permits before the rules would enter into force. The Minister for Migration seems to accept this. Nevertheless, I would like to ask him whether he intends to take steps to reconsider the decision and to review what has actually happened.
i-3332cf619e423afa-746	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't intend to do that. As I said, this has been the case over the years. In July it increases and then falls back in August. If you want to look at the month in which it is decided most cases, it will not be July but October and November. I do not think I can draw conclusions such as Markus Wiechel. There is no support for this.
i-3332cf619e423afa-747	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. Malmöbon and newly trained dentist Rami Amin were 24 years old. He was shot to death on one of Malmö's streets a week ago. It was the twelfth murder in Malmö this year. The next day it became clear that this would not be investigated. In order to investigate a murder, 25 to 30 police officers are required, and after Rami Amin's death, the police in Malmö could only remove three police officers. A few days later, only one police officer could investigate this. My center party colleagues down in Malmö are deeply concerned. This sends a signal that in Malmö you can commit murder on the open street without it being investigated. In the same way, when the Chief Prosecutor says that you may not be investigating the case, you may have to close it. My question to the Minister for Justice is: How can a murder on the open street in Malmö be allowed to happen without there being any investigation and it might instead be closed down?
i-3332cf619e423afa-751	Mr President, I would like to I don't think we should get ahead of ourselves. They're in the middle of the preliminary investigation. But of course I share Anders W Jonsson's concern about the overall picture. We've seen a large number of murders in a short time. Then, of course, the Police Authority must be prepared to set aside the resources needed to deal with this. The head of the Swedish police was down in Malmö the other day and said that they will do further reinforcements there. However, it is too early to draw such conclusions as Anders W Jonsson does, but of course I share the concerns about the situation. We need to do much more and take greater action against organised crime. It's the one that's stuck. The government will shortly come back with further measures to this end.
i-3332cf619e423afa-754	Mr President, I would like to It is no wonder that such a picture arises when the prosecutor responsible some day after the incident says that we will see if there is any investigation at all or if the matter is dismissed. This is a very serious signal sent out to the people of Malmö. Here it is free to murder a young dentist in the open street. One is also concerned when large parts of Malmö's police resources are spent on the ID-controls at the Öresund Bridge. Is this more important than investigating the murder of a young man?
i-3332cf619e423afa-756	Mr President, I would like to It is not that much of Malmö police resources are spent doing ID checks. When we introduced the controls at the beginning of the year, it was police officers who made them. Every train was also taken. Later in the year the use of resources has been changed so that not all departures are checked, and it is not so much police that does the checks. We have gone in with civilian employees to do these tasks. In just this year we have hired a large number of civil servants in the police.
i-3332cf619e423afa-758	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for the Elderly Åsa Regnér. I would have put it in the adjourned social committee debate, but Åsa Regnér has chosen not to participate in it. My question is that the government budget provides free dental care to young people up to 24 years old and extra 150 SEK for pensioners between 65 and 74 years old. Wouldn't it have been better to give this billion to guarantee pensioners who have so low income that they can't afford to have their dental needs met?
i-3332cf619e423afa-760	Mr President, I would like to I have other commitments today and regret that I cannot attend today. However, I was here and debated in the budget debate yesterday. I share this area with Mr Wikström, who is taking part in the debate, and it is, of course, possible to put the question to him. I am well aware that women pensioners in particular have a financially vulnerable situation. We are looking at this issue and I have taken several steps to strengthen them. Within the Pensions Group, work is ongoing on pensions and gender equality within the pension system.
i-3332cf619e423afa-762	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to influence pensions, but one can influence the expenditure side of this year's generation. We now have an increasing number of year-long people who cannot chew properly, resulting in a deterioration in the nutritional condition. The quality of life also deteriorates because you do not dare to smile. For this generation, this is a serious issue.
i-3332cf619e423afa-764	Mr President, I would like to I share the concerns and agree that oral and dental health is important. We invest a lot in care for the elderly, which is my responsibility in the government. I am well aware of the issue and that many female pensioners in particular are having a difficult financial situation. The issue can be further discussed, including from the point of view of dentistry, in the ensuing debate.
i-3332cf619e423afa-765	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. I wasn't going to ask about PISA today, even though there's a lot to say. However, it is positive that a trend break at last seems to have taken place. There are some other things to worry about, not least the search pressure for professional programmes. Not only has it declined since 2011, but this is a trend in Sweden and internationally since 15–20 years ago. Part of the professional programmes is the Natural Agricultural Upper Secondary School. In a report to the government from the National Agency for Education, we can see some disturbing signs. Among other things, it is proposed to eliminate the focus on hunting, wildlife, nature tourism, fishing and water conservation. Gustav Fridolin is not only a minister of education, but also an environmental party, and should safeguard these programmes.
i-3332cf619e423afa-768	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Michael Svensson! It is quite true that PISA can show a trend break. But let us remember that we are up to the levels we had in 2009. When we got the result that time, we were far from satisfied. We must continue to work and break the inequality that was also raised in the previous question. Part of this is to have a strong upper secondary school and to ensure that pupils leaving comprehensive school enter upper secondary school and can prepare for the labour market that exists. Both as a member of the government and as a member of the environmental party, I fully share the description that there is a growing labour market in tourism, ecotourism, game conservation, land and forest, and it is also growing in rural areas. Upper secondary school should be able to prepare students for this. However, the Swedish National Agency for Education has looked at exactly what orientations should be in high school. To the extent that the government is responsible for the decision, my colleague Anna Ekström prepares it.
i-3332cf619e423afa-771	Mr President, I would like to We know that most people who have taken these courses get jobs after completing their education. It takes a critical mass to have a high school. In my county, for example, one of the two agricultural upper secondary schools has closed down. Some training courses depend on the existence of several programme orientations. I would like to ask Gustav Fridolin if he wants to stop the proposed closure. How should we deal with the consequences if this happens anyway?
i-3332cf619e423afa-773	Mr President, I would like to It is very good that Michael Svensson raises the issue and is committed to how we ensure a good labour market and good education for those who will work in these growing industries. Michael Svensson then knows that this is one of the occasions when the minister responsible for general policy does not give a direct answer to Question Time. If the government is to act, it is a responsibility that lies with the Minister for High School Anna Ekström. This has been investigated by the National Agency for Education. We know that this investigation has raised concerns, and we are therefore looking at this.
i-3332cf619e423afa-776	Mr President, I would like to There is great concern among all those who depend on personal assistance in order to have a decent everyday life. A number of statements by the government add to this concern. They come partly from the Minister for Finance, who in the early autumn went out and said that this is an area where the government sees that savings can be made, and partly from the responsible Government, which paints a picture of an extensive cheating – without there being support for this. This happened, for example, during the special debate requested by the Christian Democrats and held in this House earlier this autumn. Then the responsible minister said, "I maintain that it is a problem that perhaps 10% of the 30 billion is spent on advertising and sponsorship. Thus, 3 billion would go specifically to advertising and sponsorship. My question to the Government is: Are you in favour of these figures? Are they correct? If so, what basis do you have?
i-3332cf619e423afa-779	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Henriksson! The issue of personal assistance has been much discussed in the autumn. As Emma Henriksson knows, the government believes that this is a very urgent reform, and in order to ensure it in the long term, we need to secure taxpayers' money, at the moment 30 billion a year. These funds have so far increased by 1 billion per year and are expected to continue to increase as the number of hours increases. The Social Insurance Agency itself has reviewed the issue of misusing funds. There are various government reports on this, and the Social Insurance Agency estimates the figure at about 10 percent.
i-3332cf619e423afa-781	Mr President, I would like to This figure relates to the total misuse, but now the Government said that it was 10 percent who went to advertising and sponsorship. That is something quite different, and that is the information I asked for. The figures are based on a report from the Swedish Financial Control Agency, which showed with the expert method that there may be an error of between 1.8 and 27.6% – a very large uncertainty interval. So the question is: Is this the interval on which the Government bases its facts?
i-3332cf619e423afa-783	Mr President, I would like to I said, perhaps in the post that Emma Henriksson refers to, because there is a span here. I'm not making up this information, and I haven't made up any of the reports. There are very many – whole lists of reports saying that there are misuses of these funds. The Social Insurance Agency, which is the processing authority, reports 10 percent.
i-PGUu9oiw2zpUKgXdUPBC4j	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Linde relating to trade policy in general and, more specifically, the trade agreement with Canada. In the new year, the ratification process for the entry into force of the whole agreement will begin throughout Europe. This is happening in a Europe where trade issues are controversial. We Social Democrats have understood that trade leads to jobs and prosperity, but that trade policy must also be complemented by substantial unemployment insurance and labour market policies. I believe that this is one of the keys to the ratification and legitimacy of the agreement. My question to the Government is: what do you think it looks like around Europe when it comes to this insight, which I think is so important?
i-3332cf619e423afa-788	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. I think the honourable Member is absolutely right: this is one of the things that has not been taken seriously. That is why in some countries we have seen such large demonstrations against trade agreements as CETA, which can be very important for growth and jobs. Of course, structural changes due to both technological development and free trade agreements cause some people to get hurt because their jobs cannot cope with competition. Then you have to have a welfare system to take care of it, and in many countries you do not. I believe that the widening gap, which can be overcome by, among other things, welfare policy, is one of the reasons for the great resistance to free trade in some countries. The politicians need to address this, and I think our government does.
i-3332cf619e423afa-791	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I am a Member from Tyresö in Stockholm, and I will not argue that this is a Stockholm issue; trade is important for the whole country. But in this region there are very many export companies, and it is clear that many people are still talking about the importance of this agreement here in the region. My question is, in fact, what can the Government and the Government do to speed up and drive the process?
i-3332cf619e423afa-793	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very important that we now have a process in which the European Parliament gives its go-ahead to the provisional launch of the agreement. This has been done with several other agreements and can also be done with the CETA agreement between the EU and Canada, if the European Parliament gives its consent. I have good hopes that this will happen – as the outgoing President of Parliament has said – but now, of course, it is important to continue arguing about why it is important.
i-3332cf619e423afa-794	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Åsa Regnér regarding support housing, the new form of placement for children and young people. Now that all municipalities around Sweden are going to start with assisted housing, the legislation seems to be interpreted differently. Several municipalities make the interpretation that you are not allowed to share rooms, i.e. that everyone should have single rooms instead of today's shared accommodation. Other municipalities make the interpretation that you can share a room.
i-3332cf619e423afa-797	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, pleased that we have introduced the form of support housing, and we helped each other here in Parliament to try to get that reform through faster. All children covered by the municipality's care when it comes to placement through social care for children and young people are entitled to an individual assessment of where it is appropriate for them to live on the basis of individual conditions. Some unaccompanied minors and other children are able to live in assisted housing; others need to live in HVB homes or family homes. The National Board of Health and Welfare has come up with guidelines on this, and I will not go in and interpret them. I know that the municipalities have had much more opportunity than before to investigate each child and his or her needs. I follow this and have a lot of contact with the municipalities. I understand that many municipalities have great challenges with this, but I have also seen that support housing is helpful in many places.
i-3332cf619e423afa-801	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Regnér! The National Board of Health and Welfare's guideline says that there is private housing, and in many municipalities there are HVB homes where people currently live in double rooms. In my municipality of residence, Haninge, for example, there is an HVB home with 15 places, which will now be converted into support housing with 8 places. There will be a few left over, and we have an acute housing shortage.
i-3332cf619e423afa-803	Mr President, I would like to The form of assisted housing was requested by municipalities. It is needed for the placement of many children. I know that we have a housing shortage in Sweden, and the situation is very different in different municipalities. The government has taken several initiatives for construction. I am aware that there are problems with investments in many municipalities, and I have a dialogue with many municipalities. It looks different. In many places it helps you to have support housing, and in others you have bigger problems.
i-3332cf619e423afa-806	Mr President, I would like to The European Union has now been tested for the first time and the result is disappointing. The Dublin Regulation has not been maintained. The EU's external borders have not been properly protected. The Member States have not been able to reach an agreement. Schengen cooperation has proved to be ineffective. The result was the largest flow of refugees to the EU in modern times. At the same time, power is increasingly being transferred from the Member States to the EU. As a result, Britain chose to vote on leaving the Union in order to return power and decision-making rights to the British people. It is now clear that the European project is cracking and that the people's confidence in the EU's progress towards increased supranationality is weak. After Brexit, in an increasing number of countries there is now talk of a referendum of their own, but in Sweden the people have not been allowed to take a position on this development in a referendum.
i-3332cf619e423afa-811	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President. Sweden took a position on whether or not to join the EU in a referendum in 1994. Since then, support for remaining in the EU has remained fairly constant and is now in fact up to fairly high record levels. There is no reason whatsoever to go into a situation where there is a new referendum on this issue. On the other hand, I think it is very important that we invest in information, knowledge and more influence for people when it comes to decisions in the European Union. That is why I have taken the initiative for so-called EU handshake to have, together with the social partners in particular, but also others, measures to increase information, knowledge and participation in the European Union. I think that is a much better way than threatening a referendum.
i-3332cf619e423afa-813	Mr President, I would like to What the Swedish people said yes to over 20 years ago is something quite different from what we are seeing today. Today, the EU has developed into a supranational political union. That is not at all what the Swedish people voted for by a very narrow margin over 20 years ago. I think it is perfectly reasonable to draw concrete conclusions after Brexit and the debate and discussion that have been in Europe. How do we transfer more power back to the Member States? How do we get the people more involved in the decision-making process?
i-3332cf619e423afa-815	Mr President, I would like to I think that the latter part of the honourable Member's question is very important, namely how we are conducting a future debate on the European Union that many more citizens feel you can be a part of. For example, we will start from the government's side with so-called EU Councils, where we will invite parties interested in different issues so that they can have a much earlier influence over and dialogue on the process. I think this is an important way of getting more understanding of what is happening.
i-3332cf619e423afa-817	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. Niklas, Mikael, Arne, Elias, Patric, Karin, Micke, Selma and Stefan these are some of the many more people that I have met and that we have read about in the daily press. It is people who need time-consuming support and action and who have been denied or lost the state assistance allowance. Today, the report requested by the Government from the Social Security Inspection, ISF, examined the interpretation of the rules and practices of the courts and other social security funds. ISF recommends the government to consider whether the legislation is retroactively in line with LSS. My question to the Government is: What happens now?
i-3332cf619e423afa-821	Mr President, I would like to After all, it is the government that has ordered this report, because we wanted to know whether it is the case that the judges and their effects have taken a practice away from what was the intention of the legislation. The legislation is very complicated, and this report is not clear either. Let's analyse it, because I want answers to these questions. We have an opportunity to come back quite soon with answers in the regulatory letter. Some of the things that I have already seen that you point out are the fact that there are double or even triple heads, that you do not have uniform assessments of Sweden – we have already given that task to the Social Insurance Agency to look at – and that people seem to end up between the chairs. These are things we can deal with immediately. As far as legislation is concerned, it is either in the investigation that we have set up in this area or we have to make some additional directive in relation to the report. I can't answer that yet.
i-3332cf619e423afa-825	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I look forward to this work. In debate articles, the Government calls for dialogue. Among other things, in response to this, I formed yesterday a network of all parties here in Parliament precisely to know and be able to have a dialogue. However, I note that the Government does not want to meet user organisations, come to the hearing of the Social Affairs Committee and so on. What does the Government think of the dialogue?
i-3332cf619e423afa-828	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, I have come all the times that Parliament has called, and I will be happy to come to your network if that is what the question means. I meet with the disability movement on an ongoing basis, no later than Friday. I've met NGOs who have wanted to. I have also offered meetings to some who have not accepted it. I'd love to have a dialogue. That's the way it is.
i-3332cf619e423afa-831	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the head of the Ministry of Justice and the budget manager for Category 4. On Tuesday, National Police Commissioner Dan Eliasson announced that the next year will end SEK 1 billion more. This year's funding will not leave any money behind, as we understand. The frame increase next year is modest – SEK 83 million. There is a small extra toil in the supplementary budget, and left is SEK 400 million from previous alliance budgets. Since the risk seems significant that the police will run on credit before the end of next year, my question is: Will the government knowingly let the police run on credit?
i-3332cf619e423afa-834	Mr President, I would like to Now it is precisely that part that concerns the budget area of the Home Secretary of the police, but I can say that when it comes to running the police on credit, Krister Hammarbergh should be well acquainted with it, because his own government tended to do so almost every year when we were in opposition, if I remember correctly. These are simply issues to be resolved during the course of the year if there are shortcomings in the budget part. So far it has been that we have had a surplus that the police have been able to transfer from one year to another. Should there be a situation in which we need to make more money available to the police, we will, of course, have to take it next year. But to run the police on credit in the way that the bourgeois government tended to do, we will not engage in.
i-3332cf619e423afa-837	Mr President, I would like to Jumping on the previous government that de facto handed over money is a bad answer to the question. However one counts, the risk is now significant that the police will not actually have sufficient resources even with the previous spending savings. Is it then that action will be taken, I would like to add a question to the head of the department: have you, in that case, given the sub-promise to the police for additions under the spring budget?
i-3332cf619e423afa-839	Mr President, I would like to That question is, of course, far too early. I can tell you that during this year we allocated more money to the police in the supplementary budgets, especially in the spring, so that we could meet their resource needs. Of course we will do so this year too. But so far this term of office has been a surplus rather than a deficit that has marked the police.
i-3332cf619e423afa-842	Mr President, I would like to As most Members, audiences and ministers know, Sweden has gone from conducting a policy in which the Prime Minister participates in the Refugees Welcome to conducting a policy in which we send young people to death. In recent weeks, attention has been paid to sending young people to Afghanistan, for example, where they are moving towards a precarious and uncertain future. This not only affects families, their situation on the labour market in Sweden and their future, but also affects the present for those who go to school. Every day we hear from school staff what a tough situation it is to teach students who can't feel hope for the future because they don't know whether to stay here another day, two more weeks or several more months. I wonder: how does Gustav Fridolin feel about this? What does the Minister of Education think about this issue? How does the Minister of Education think it should work to conduct this policy while the students should be able to learn and concentrate on the school?
i-3332cf619e423afa-845	Mr President, I would like to I have also met many of the teachers who are now doing an amazing job. They did so in the emergency situation, where we had very many more children to Swedish school in a short time, and they are doing so now to ensure that those who have come to Sweden have the opportunity to start school and the education they need to build their lives. For this very reason, we have agreed in the Riksdag that the legislation decided by the Riksdag should be supplemented by rules that allow pupils who start upper secondary school to gain the security of upper secondary school education. These rules are now being referred, sent by the Minister of Justice and Migration. We are waiting for the referral, but we can note that the teachers' unions have broadly welcomed the fact that we are really dealing with this. That is something that is needed in schools.
i-3332cf619e423afa-847	Mr President, I would like to I wonder how the Minister of Education thinks it will be for those students who know that when their school hours are over, they will be sent to countries that they have not even been to. How, then, should you motivate a student to want to learn something in school? I was in this situation myself when I came here as a refugee child and we knew nothing about our future because of the then government, which also wanted to conduct an inhumane refugee policy. I wonder: does Gustav Fridolin, as an environmental party that has stood up for these issues in the past, seriously believe that this is sustainable? Is that something you could call a better line?
i-3332cf619e423afa-849	Mr President, I would like to If it had been the case that the government wanted the rules that have now been adopted to be permanent, we would of course have put forward proposals for permanent legislation. We see that there are conflicts of interests in the rules that are now in force. There is a reason why Sweden has mainly applied permanent residence permits since the 1980s. In the current situation, however, we chose to go forward with rules in order to deal with the emergency situation. This makes it difficult for many, not least for young people, in the way Daniel Riazat describes. Then you should not say that it is so simple that people should go as soon as the upper secondary school education is completed. There are valves to be able to obtain a permanent residence permit.
i-3332cf619e423afa-852	Mr President, I would like to My questions go to Minister Åsa Regnér and are about LSS assistance and rights. The Government has announced that the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan should be rewritten because the former has been misinterpreted. There must be no doubt that the person in need of support will receive it. It's about people's rights. How will the new wording ensure this? My second question concerns the fact that the government has not proposed any legislative changes that change the right to LSS or assistance compensation. However, there have been judgments from the Supreme Administrative Court that affect how the Act is applied by Försäkringskassan. Neither parliament nor government can rule over court rulings. On the other hand, it is our responsibility to draw up the laws on which decisions are based. When judgments do not interpret the law as intended from the outset, the law had to be amended. When and how will the government act to ensure that these laws better live up to our goals of equality, participation and independence?
i-3332cf619e423afa-856	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Laila. These are important issues. We will of course present the new regulatory letter before the end of the year. I cannot reveal the exact wording of the letter of regulation, but it is our ambition and our absolute will to formulate it in a way that understands that what we are looking for is the misuse of the funds within the assistance allowance. This is based on a series of reports that say that there is a misuse. It is not just a report, but many have come in recent years from heavy bodies to show this. I think it's my responsibility to deal with it. We also want to ensure in the forthcoming regulatory letter, as in the current one, that the right person gets the right input. We haven't changed the law, as you also point out. Today I received a report which I am now going to analyse and which deals with these particular judges.
i-3332cf619e423afa-859	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is of the utmost importance that the regulatory letter clearly states that everyone should receive the support to which they are entitled. It is important for individuals, relatives and relatives. But it is also important for us as a society. Thanks to LSS and assistance, more people can participate in society and contribute their skills and strengths. We will then also become a more humane society. It is important that the law be amended, because it is not reasonable for us to retain wordings that do not have the effect referred to in the law. The judgments that have come clearly show that the law needs to be improved.
i-3332cf619e423afa-861	Mr President, I would like to I couldn't agree more. That is why it says right now that the right person should get the right input. Very clear, straight up and down, it says so. We need to analyse the effects of the verdicts. That is the conclusion we have drawn ourselves, and then we have ordered the report that came today. The former government did not do so despite the fact that several discussed judgments came in 2009, 2012 and also during the time of the alliance government. Now we will analyse the report that came today. We can do some things already in the regulatory letter, but if we are dealing with legislation, we need to investigate it more.
i-3332cf619e423afa-865	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Attorney General. I have received a letter today for information from the Chairman of the Local Council of the Social Democrats in Kramfors. The letter was sent to the government. He describes in the letter that the citizens of Kramfors feel very insecure, that the municipality has for several years had agreements with guarding companies to cope with the local situation and that they now have village guards who are more or less beginning to develop into vigilantes. They are now also asking for subsidies to get safety cars and other things in order to be able to act. He asks the government how one sees municipalities having to spend resources on ensuring local security. That is also my question: how does the government view this? Should the municipality of Kramfors and other municipalities approve this type of application for car grants and other things for surveillance around the municipalities?
i-3332cf619e423afa-867	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, an expression of a shortage that we have with regard to the police in many places. We have it in terms of metropolitan areas, and we also have it in part in terms of rural areas. To solve this, there are not so many shortcuts, but you simply have to make sure that there are more police officers. We will need to increase the number of police officers in the coming years. This is also why we have increased admissions to the Police College during this year. The second thing I think we need is more civilian employees in the police organization. We've already hired between 500 and 600 civilian employees this year. This means freeing up police resources that are currently tied up elsewhere to pure police work. The third is not to forget: we need to reform police training and make it better so that we can get more out of the existing police organisation than we get today. All this the government is working on, and I think you can greet the municipal councillor in Kramfors.
i-3332cf619e423afa-871	Mr President, I would like to Let's talk about Kramfors. The police training in Umeå has quite a lot of empty spaces. It's hard to get cops to the region. The concern you have is that the village law no longer has a contact person with the police, if you have not received it in the near future. They're the ones watching houses, homes and businesses. The Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board is very concerned and is now addressing the government. Is rural security also a government task, or is it the municipality that has to go in and make sure things work?
i-3332cf619e423afa-874	Mr President, I would like to I believe that a common responsibility must be taken for the security of the local community. It is not just about the police, it is also about what the municipality can do, what civil society can do and what the business community can do, for example, when it comes to preventing crime. If we're going to get to organised crime and if we're going to have a safer society, we all have to help. The state can do its part through increased resources, through more police officers, through more civilian workers and through better education. But everyone has to help. I am happy to have a dialogue with both the municipal councillor in Kramfors and many other municipal councillors on this.
i-3332cf619e423afa-877	Mr President, I would like to The Government Åsa Regnér is not only responsible for LSS but also for gender equality issues, and it is in this area that I have a question. For the Center Party, it is important that women's economic opportunities and freedom to actually be able to control their own lives are constantly strengthened so that we have a level playing field. During the alliance years, we made big investments in women's entrepreneurship, because we saw that we were the worst in the whole of Europe. What is worrying is that the current government, with surgical precision, succeeds in removing all the efforts that are promoting and supporting and increasing women's entrepreneurship, and creates a great deal of concern and insecurity in the sectors where women are in the majority. It is a question of reducing the RUT deduction, but perhaps even more of choosing to investigate publicly funded welfare – but only in those sectors where women's entrepreneurship dominates. I would like to hear the government's reasoning on these issues.
i-7kUr9gFm7vmbgYsShAx1rH	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Annika Qarlsson! The fact that women and men work and do so under dignified conditions, preferably through entrepreneurship or otherwise, is a good thing. Almost half of the women in Sweden work in the private sector. We sometimes talk about this as if a huge majority were to work in the public sector, but that is not the case. I and the government think it is good that women and men start businesses, and we want to promote this in different ways. We have no objection to the privatisation of the public sector and health and long-term care services. There are very good activities in the areas for which I am responsible, such as elderly care and LSS. The latter we have talked a lot about here today, and it is highly privatised. What we have something against is the taking out of huge profits or the use of funds for the wrong things. We have something against this in the case of private organisers, and so do we in the case of public organisers. However, this does not affect women's opportunities to start a business.
i-3332cf619e423afa-884	Mr President, I would like to But in that investigation you need to read properly between the lines, because what it means is that entrepreneurship in care where you invest in people and not in things is made impossible. I want to go back to the first part of the answer. I can be upset and, in fact, rather angry that there is such blindness in a feminist government that one does not understand and understand the importance of promoting efforts and measures in relation to women's entrepreneurship.
i-3332cf619e423afa-886	Mr President, I would like to I can't address this blindness because I don't have it. I think it is important that women, like men, start businesses. This government is for it. It can be in all sectors of the labour market. It can be in health care and care. It could be inside the RUT system. It can also be in trade, restaurant or other competitive parts of the labour market. We don't mind. On the contrary, it is important that women, as well as men, have their own income and work. Right now, women and men are doing it more than ever, and I am very happy about that.
i-3332cf619e423afa-887	Mr President, I would like to There is concern in Europe at the moment. We have seen this not least through the referendums that have been held in Italy and the United Kingdom. I am pleased with the efforts already made by Minister Linde on initiatives at home to strengthen public opinion and the work of the European Union. With my question now, I would instead like to look to the outside world and what is happening in Turkey. There we have seen a worrying trend over time. Not least, a number of parliamentarians have been imprisoned, including HDP's Selahattin Demirtaş. I was part of a delegation that went down with the European Social Democratic Party a few weeks ago. We manifested outside the prison. My question goes to Minister Ann Linde. What can the EU do to increase the pressure on Turkey to release these parliamentarians who are members of the sister party of the Social Democrats?
i-3332cf619e423afa-891	Mr President, I would like to Mr Büser! Thank you very much for the important question. The arrest of the two party leaders and other representatives of HDP is extremely worrying. I myself have had the opportunity to meet Selahattin Demirtaş on several occasions and to hear how difficult it has been for them to conduct their struggle, which has now unfortunately gone so far as to have been imprisoned. We have made several statements on this issue, we agree with the EU statement on this issue and we have called the Turkish ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to express our great concern about what is happening. The attacks against HDP representatives risk fuelling the already existing contradictions in the country. We have also tried to get the Turkish Government back to having normal talks and releasing both imprisoned parliamentarians and journalists and others.
i-76mALgchKgGLVu62ZPgk9m	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Linde, for that answer. Yes, we see how freedom of expression and other rights are restricted in Turkey. Are there any points of light following the strong criticism that has been made by the European Union, that is to say, that the government in Turkey is listening?
i-3332cf619e423afa-896	Mr President, I would like to I was at the General Council of the European Union on Tuesday. We had a very long discussion on Turkey in connection with the enlargement discussions. Unfortunately, we were unable to reach a uniform decision. There were 27 countries that had the same view, and it was that, after all, there are some opportunities to continue to influence, and so we should not freeze the accession negotiations, for example. In addition, several HDPs have expressed that they want us to continue.
i-3332cf619e423afa-898	Mr President, I would like to The market for personal assistance has changed since the turn of the millennium. Private operators have increased from about 20% to 65%. The persons entitled to assistance choose to a greater extent who they want to carry out the assistance themselves. They're making an active choice. This can be interpreted as meaning that the private organisers perform a better job than the municipal ones. Many are small, local companies that give their know-how and skills to the users they work for. The government's directives on the austerity of assistance are partly based on assumptions about cheating in the private assistance industry. About 16 000 people today live with personal assistance, and about 2 000 people receive their assistance reviewed each year. My questions to Minister Regnér will then be as follows: Is it the big companies that the government wants to get in touch with by giving the Social Insurance Agency a directive to reduce the number of assistance hours? And is it the government's assessment that private companies offer less quality and that economic drivers can lead to over-exploitation?
i-3332cf619e423afa-902	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The government has no problem with personal assistance having both public and private organisers. That's not the problem. However, it can be said that privatisation is quite far-reaching in this reform. Today, some 1 000 companies are competing for these 16,000 people, so to speak. At least that tells me something about the expectation of profitability in this sector. What concerns me, as I have also explained here today, is the fact that we know that some of these private organisers are using funds for other things than it was intended for. A certain design in the system also invites it. We are concerned that serious actors are involved in this reform, and that is what our work aims to do.
i-3332cf619e423afa-906	Mr President, I would like to It is true, as the Government says, that the cost of assistance has increased in recent years. However, instead of worrying about an already fragile group of people and their relatives with these cuts in personal assistance, I wonder whether it should not be investigated why the costs have increased and whether, if there were to be fraud in the assistance reimbursement, it would be the Economic Crime Authority and the police who would have to investigate those cases.
i-3332cf619e423afa-907	Mr President, I would like to Evidence already shows that there are irregularities and also misuse of funds under this legislation. It is also true that it is precisely the misuse that some companies are engaged in that we want to get to. We have put this issue in an investigation led by the Christian Democratic Member of Parliament, Mrs Pethrus. There is one, as I myself think, well written and quite clear passage on the corporate issue. There is one that I myself think well written and quite clear passages on the corporate issue. We will go further into it, as I have written in an article. We'll get back to you on how we work on the corporate issue.
i-3332cf619e423afa-910	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. We have just been able to read about seriously ill children who cannot have their parents living with them on or in connection with Nya Karolinska Solna. The social democrats in the county council pushed the issue of child adaptation of NKS and also suggested that there should be a children's impact assessment of how healthcare for children would work in the premises. If the Alliance had done so in good time, hopefully these sick children would have had their parents nearby, for example in connection with the hospital. There has been an investigation, the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes Swedish law. It says that there is often no analysis of the impact of a decision on children. My question is: Can the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Swedish law provide clearer support for the fact that child impact assessments are actually carried out in such large investments?
i-3332cf619e423afa-913	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The fact that the government wants the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law is precisely because we want to strengthen children's opportunities to be heard in decisions concerning them and that children's best interests should be taken even more into account when making decisions that specifically concern them. We have, of course, looked at experiences from Norway, where the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been made law. It shows that legal decisions and decisions taken by officials in matters concerning children have taken more account than before of children's rights and opportunities. The ambition is simply to look further at children and listen to their voices when making important decisions about them.
i-3332cf619e423afa-917	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. What you want to get at in this type of situation is to plan and also implement measures in good time so as not to end up in situations such as in this case that there is a lack of facilities for parents to be able to stay in close proximity to their sick children. Is there any other way to ensure that the children's perspective is included in this type of large projects and investments?
i-3332cf619e423afa-920	Mr President, I would like to I hope, of course, that this work will contribute to this. I think that's important. We also know from Norway that further changes have been made, that is to say that other legislation has also given even greater consideration to children's rights. Knowledge of children's rights has also increased in society. All of this together, I hope, will also lead us to take greater account of children's perspectives and children's rights from the outset in this kind of project and in other contexts.
i-3332cf619e423afa-922	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-3332cf619e423afa-923	Mr President, I would like to I must begin by correcting the false statement by Karin Rågsjö that the Christian Democrats do not have more funds allocated to the assistance in our budget. We have. It is in Category 25 and was also debated in this House yesterday, when our representative highlighted it clearly in that debate. The Christian Democrats therefore have more money for assistance than the Left Party has. The Left Party has had all year. After nine months it was found that the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan was a bit flawed. Only then did they choose to try to act. We have been acting on this issue throughout the year and ever since last autumn the Finance Minister began talking about the government making cuts on this. The Left Party is behind the budget which involves cuts in assistance. Mr President, I would like to My question to Karin Rågsjö is about the other influence that the Left Party has on the government's budget and thus on Swedish health care. It is about the dogmatic pursuit of other practitioners in health care. At all costs, we want to stop all those who are in any way prepared to take part in, spend their own time, their own commitment and often also their own financial resources. Many of those doers are women. They want to be involved in developing Swedish healthcare. Today, there are more than 200 000 employees in the private sector performing important welfare services. For them, many times the work situation is much better. There are examples from Västernorrland where at a health centre you do not have to walk around with vicaries because of this. Why is the Left Party so dogmatically opposed to other performers?
i-3332cf619e423afa-927	Mr President, I would like to We're not against the doers themselves. We're against the huge payoff. If you look at the boards of Capio, Aleris, etcetera, the big – and we can talk about Academedia in the school area, for example – it is not really the women who advise that business. We are not against free entrepreneurs in this area. But we are opposed to a huge return on operational capital in the welfare field. If you look at the health care system, it's 51%. I have nothing against small businesses run by women, as long as we do not levy a profit from our taxes. It is about profit from our taxes that enrich others and not welfare. That is what we are talking about. It is not that the Left Party is standing down in the basement itself and printing copies against this. We have quite a few with us. We have about 70 - 80% of the population with us on this issue. Now Reepalu has done his thing with the investigation, and it is now being referred for a referral. We're gonna look at it, and everyone else is gonna look at it. If you live in a country where you want equal health care, a fair social service, and so on, the tax resources we have in that country must just go to welfare. It is extremely central to this issue. Then, for example, the return on social contributions cannot be 72%, while we have social secretaries kneeling. Something's twisted.
i-3332cf619e423afa-931	Mr President, I would like to If it were the case that the Left Party was against any kind of profit in any kind of activity funded by the taxpayer, it would have gone after all the male industries decades ago. It is about all those who build our schools, hospitals, roads, railways and tunnels. It is all those who use taxpayers' money and build what is important in our welfare. The foundation of our welfare is built many times by private companies. But they are just when it comes to the women-dominated industries that left-wing parties, even though they claim to be protecting women, are attacking them. Last week there was a welfare entrepreneur here in Parliament. Karin Rågsjö often uses examples from Stockholm. She was from Stockholm and ran a retirement home. She wanted to develop her business because she had so many people who wanted to come to the business. She gets no from the one who's going to build. She has to pay one and a half years' rent herself in advance. They cannot get loans because the Left Party is involved in halting the development of this industry. Who makes the profit instead? Who's she paying the rent for a year and a half in advance to? Well, it's to the male-driven developer's company that reduces its risk and increases its profits because you go after the female entrepreneurs. Only a few days ago there was a report from the Social Insurance Agency showing how much more sick women are often with employers who are public even though they have the same type of workplace. These are work in the areas of care for the elderly, home care and personal assistance. Do you not see that there are many activities that make good efforts for patients but are also better employers?
i-3332cf619e423afa-935	It is not often that the KD is at the forefront of feminism, but now it is doing so for the companies and self-employed. Of course you have to look at every unit. This is about profits, what profits we as citizens should tolerate. We have nothing against freedom of choice. We have nothing against priv-at-businesses opening up health care centres, home care services, you name it. It's not a problem as long as you don't manage to get up into a huge capital. One can earn 51% more from one's private hobbies in health care than in the service sector. Then you've come quite a long way. This is a profitable sector. That's why more people go in. It is not that Wallenberg goes into Academedia to promote education. He doesn't go in because he goes in because there's cash to serve. That's how it is with these big companies. It's about the economy, it's about the market. We have nothing against small businesses. I'm sure they're going to make a small profit, but they're going to take me 17 not to pick millions out of tax money and put them in their own pocket. And I say again that it is 70 – 80% of the population that we have behind us. We live in a welfare state – so far. Take a look around Stockholm! See what the money goes to here, where you have so many private health agreements. Look what became of it – financial chaos and care chaos!
i-3332cf619e423afa-940	Mr President, I would like to Members and listeners! As the last speaker of the debate, I would like to begin by thanking you for a good debate and a good discussion. It deserves health care. It is, I would say, the very core of the Swedish welfare model. When Swedes travel abroad and meet people from other countries, I can imagine that if it is something most people want to emphasize as something unique for Sweden, something that makes them proud of their country, it is the Swedish health care system. That it covers everyone. Without anyone asking how much your parents earn, how much you earn or what kind of health insurance you actually have, you actually get care as needed. We can also note that Swedish healthcare stands very well in a wide range of international comparisons with its amazing medical results and its care that is for all citizens. This must be the basis for looking ahead and discussing the health care of the future and the challenges that we will face not only then, but also here and now. As many in the debate have already highlighted, we have a number of major challenges to address in Swedish healthcare. I would say that the largest of them all is to modernise Swedish healthcare from a rather traditional system that has been largely adapted to so-called infrequent visitors. It is basically fully healthy individuals who have an accident, an infectious disease or the like at some point in their lives, and then need the support and help of the healthcare system but may not have to come back for 10, 20 or 30 years. That system was perfectly acceptable to you in the 20th century. Today, however, 80% to 85% of every dollar we spend on healthcare goes to people who have at least one chronic disease, who need to have a many times lifelong relationship with healthcare and who may need to see doctors not only several times a year, but several times a month or weekly. Then our systems are no longer enough. Then they need to be reformed, because today we have far too many patients falling between the chairs. There are far too many stories about especially elderly people with various diseases who are forced to visit health care 10, 20, 30, 40 times in a year without really getting the help and care they need. We cannot have a system in which we refer elderly patients to the emergency departments, where they have to wait hour and hour in. We need to have a system where you can see a doctor or a nurse directly and get the help you need. That is why the government is now primarily responsible for preparing a major health reform. We do so on the basis of the investigation we received at the beginning of the year and which has been treated with almost hallelujah in large parts of the healthcare system in Sweden. I am, of course, talking about Göran Stiernstedt's investigation into effective care. It will require the state to make a number of legislative changes. We hope to be able to make proposals on this issue next year. But it is above all about county councils and municipalities having to do their part of the effort, and there the state must take a clearer responsibility to coordinate, help to point out direction and offer some resources. What we have presented in the budget takes up the urgent problems of health care here and now. We can see that one of the most important problems is accessibility, i.e. that the queues are growing. There are many who enter the debate and have a universal solution for how to shorten queues. They say that if you just do this action, then we will solve the queue problem. I want to state here and now that there are no universal solutions. There is no alexander chop that will solve the queuing problem, and we will definitely not fix it if we just deal with the symptoms. We have to go down on the basic problems, and then it is about the supply of skills. Why do we have closed care places? Why do we have queues in primary care? Why can even severely ill people wait to receive the care they need? Well, in most cases it's because we don't have the staff – be it nurses, specialist nurses, doctors or other categories. It is also to remedy this deficiency that the government has for a year been investing in a so-called professional billion. It is money that should be used to improve the supply of skills in health care and lead to concrete changes. One of the best examples is the salary of nurses who choose to train as a specialist nurse. We also make a general effort on the whole welfare with the 10 welfare billions. We are making efforts to improve supervision in the healthcare sector, where we contribute SEK 70 million in a long-term addition to the Inspection for Health Care. These are some examples of what we do to improve the supply of skills in health care, but also to ensure that the structures, those that will take responsibility in municipalities and county councils, follow the regulations that are set up and are always in the best interests of patients. I would like to conclude by giving a concrete example of how I think we need to work in more areas of health care. That is what we are currently doing in the field of cancer. The cancer initiative that the government is now strongly committed to and intends to continue to develop during this term of office, it began already in the bourgeois years. I think it was good that it was done, and I think it is good that we can continue. But it also shows that when we go down on structural issues and talk about the challenges in which we can agree on what the problems are like but also find common solutions, then we find ways forward that will lead to better care for patients in the area of cancer, a more cohesive care where individuals do not end up between the chairs but also a care where we now see and have seen in recent years that queues are beginning to decline sharply. I hope that when we reach the end of this parliamentary term, the money and commitment that the government has put into the area of cancer mean that we have not only shortened the queues and improved cancer care for the individual patients, but also created models that we can use in other areas of health care. Let us have a frivolous debate on health care, going on and on outside this House, but let it deal with the major issues of the future. Let it be about how we can improve the structures of health care and modernise a health care that is basically good in many ways but which is in great need of new interventions.
i-3332cf619e423afa-963	Mr President, I would like to I thank the responsible Minister for being here at the budget debate. The second minister responsible for the questions has been here, but chose to leave Parliament as soon as possible. We regret that. Care queues are increasing sharply. I understand that the Government devotes many thoughts to this every day and will do so in the future. Therefore, it is important that the Government reflect somewhat on the first steps he made when he stepped into the Ministry two years ago. For two years, the Government has been in power and has been able to act, take action and make proposals. But the bill list is so far empty. It was with surgical precision that the Government stepped in and removed the then successful queue billion. The Alliance parties wanted to continue to develop these important instruments, which had an effect and halved care queues. In October 2016, we had the worst situation regarding healthcare queues and accessibility since 2011. That's not good enough. It is not enough, then, to just speak, but to act. This is the leadership we are looking for from the Swedish Parliament. My first question to the Government is: Why did the government deliberately remove such a successful queue billions? It can't be political prestige. There must be something behind this analysis – that there were some better instruments to throw in to improve accessibility. My second question is: what are these better instruments and tools? We have not yet seen them, as the healthcare queues are, unfortunately, continuing to increase. So question one is about awareness, and question two is about which tools should shorten queues, improve accessibility and ensure that patients receive care within a reasonable time.
i-3332cf619e423afa-969	Mr President, I would like to It was precisely this kind of universal solution and alexander hewn that I just warned against. In fact, I do not believe that any reinstated cue billions would solve the situation we find ourselves in. It does not recognise that there are problems with the supply of skills that are at the root of the growing queues. The embodiment had its merits. We saw the queues decline during its first year. But we also saw how the queues began to increase in the last year of the queue billions, that is, the last year of the alliance government in power. That is why not only this government alone but also the alliance parties did the analysis that the queue billion in its then form was not much to hold in hand and would not solve the accessibility problems that one saw began to grow. From the government's side, we decided to focus precisely on the problem of skills supply. Perhaps that is the question to which I have spent most of my time as responsible minister. First of all, this should be done through the money that we allocate to county councils for improved skills provision. As I explained just now, they should be able to go to study salaries for nurses who are trained as specialist nurses, improved digitalisation and, of course, improved working methods in healthcare. Secondly, in very close cooperation with the parties and together with the responsible authorities, we will rig systems to improve the supply of skills. A clear example is the bottlenecks that exist in collaboration between higher education institutions and principals. For example, due to lack of communication, there are no VFU sites or other places that allow students to carry out the internship or placement to which they are entitled.
i-3332cf619e423afa-972	Mr President, I would like to I'm very worried, I'm afraid. I asked two specific questions related to accessibility. I, too, spoke in my speech about the important supply of skills. But that's not who I asked the government questions about. It is clear that the government has gone in with precision and removed something that has worked successfully. The alliance parties were very clear. I quote from the former joint budget of the alliance parties: We therefore wanted to use the good qualities that made it possible to halve queues, increase accessibility and improve continuity and improve this further. My question remains. What universal tools will improve accessibility but that the Government has still not presented to the Swedish people, to the Riksdag or to anyone else? I'm still talking about accessibility. When are these reforms coming? They chose to remove something that worked – not the optimal, but something that worked. When will this be improved? In Sweden of the Social Democrats, it is now the place of residence that determines whether you receive treatment within a reasonable time. According to the waiting time base, it is right now in Halland County and Jönköping County that it works. There is a very good work linked to the warranty periods that we have set up together for this work. But is it reasonable that it is the place of residence that governs this in Sweden of the Social Democrats? I have two questions, and I want two answers. My first question is: what is the analysis behind removing something that actually works and that can be developed, adjusted and improved? My second question is: if anything is to be done, when are the proposals coming? Or is it still the case that we should ask ourselves if there are any proposals? Do we get any suggestions for the Swedish Parliament?
i-3332cf619e423afa-978	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to have to repeat my previous line, where I talked about the analysis behind the fact that we removed the queue billions. As I said, the Alliance also wanted to remove the cue billions, even if it wanted to develop it into something else. The analysis was that it had played its part and no longer had the effects seen at the beginning. We simply thought that we could use the money better, and we felt that a better way was precisely to get to the bottom of the problem, that is, the supply of skills. Cecilia Widegren once again calls for a universal tool. I can only once again warn against an over-confident belief that an alexander hem or a universal solution will solve the problem of accessibility in healthcare. There's no such thing. What we are facing is a situation in which we have an increasing number of elderly patients requiring more and more care, while many experienced specialist nurses, doctors, nurses and people from other categories of staff are retiring. That is the basic problem behind our skills supply problems and our accessibility problems. It is the supply of skills that we need to solve in health care. Here I am lacking the answers of the alliance parties. Cecilia Widegren has presented a skills supply strategy," she says. But there is 100 million on one piece of paper, and the strategy lacks total content. For my part, during my two years as a minister, I have been working closely with the social partners who have a great influence and, together with the responsible authorities, see what we can do fundamentally to improve the provision of skills in health care. But I understand that this is not a good idea for Cecilia Widegren, because she is still looking for a universal solution.
i-3332cf619e423afa-981	Mr President, I would like to It is a rather rosy picture that the Minister for Health paints of Swedish healthcare. Those of us who are out in reality know that it is not so positive. We also see in the reports that we get that queues are increasing, that more and more Swedes lack a permanent medical contact and that confidence in health care is declining. Then the Minister for Health must still be quite happy about all that he inherited from the Alliance government. The cancer strategy was highlighted here. It was the alliance government that pushed it, against the will of the opposition. The investigation that he now intends to do something big of, Göran Stiernstedt's investigation, was also something that the alliance government set up and then delivered. Queues have been a major problem. I get a little worried when I hear the Government say they're because there's a shortage of staff. The National Board of Health and Welfare carried out a very thorough investigation that showed that the queues were not mainly due to a lack of resources or staffing, but to the use of inefficient methods in healthcare and, above all, that the management had no focus on trying to do anything about accessibility. Since the Minister for Health himself began thinking and ordering investigations, things have not gone quite as well. Let's see what the Minister of Health has launched! The first was about abolishing the choice of care in Sweden. Landstingen would decide, not the patients. How does this solve health problems? The second was the proposal to ban the sale of university hospitals, on which investigation resources have been spent. This proposal has been completely cut by most consultation bodies. How would it solve the problems? Finally, we have the proposal that is now in place, which means that we want to remove the carpet for 40 per cent of Swedish primary care, which is run by private practitioners, where we do not depend on relay doctors, where the patients are satisfied, where the staff are satisfied and where they have high quality. In what way does it benefit Swedish healthcare to close this, according to the proposal put forward by Ilmar Reepalu?
i-3332cf619e423afa-988	Mr President, I would like to I'm disappointed in Anders W Jonsson and the Center Party. I know Anders W Jonsson as a person with whom it is possible to reason and who usually has wise opinions about health care and in what direction we should modernise it. But that he so mildly trivializes one of the biggest challenges of Swedish health care, namely the supply of skills, I am disappointed. We get time after other reports. Since Anders W Jonsson is in the so-called reality, it cannot escape him either. You have probably been told by old colleagues, nurses or doctors around the country how staff shortages lie behind closed care places or that primary care now experiences queues. I believe that this is also where we need to focus. It is not a question of recreating a queue billion or some kind of system in which county councils compete against each other for the scarce resources available to bring the queues down. What we saw in that system was that it was the county councils that already had a good idea from the beginning that managed to cut off the largest share of resources, and that the county councils that had needed help with more money or more support from the national level did not get it, because the competition made them more or less knocked out. It doesn't make sense. The reasonable thing is that we give resources to the county councils and that we also give national support, so that they can take their mission and responsibility more seriously, and that, above all, we help to tackle the problem of skills provision. Here the state needs to do more. I fully agree with Anders on that.
i-3332cf619e423afa-992	Mr President, I would like to Therein lies my concern that the government will not succeed in the problem of queues. There is, of course, a fairly extensive investigation where one has looked at what is the reason why we have major problems with accessibility in Swedish healthcare, unlike other countries. When the National Board of Health and Welfare went through this, it was not said that staff shortages do not matter. It was not said that financial resources were not the problem. It was said that it was also there but that the most important thing was to ensure that the political leadership in the county council and the official management focused on the problem and that they were prepared to use effective methods in health care to ensure that the queues were cut. The National Board of Health and Welfare made it clear that this is where the focus must be. We also made large extensions. We increased medical training from 900 to 1,400 a year. We also made extensions of nursing training. But that is not where the answer is when it comes to why we have problems in Swedish healthcare. There is only one country, Luxembourg, which has a greater frequency of doctors than Sweden. If the problem were that we had too few doctors and nurses in Sweden, we would not be in this situation. After all, we are the country with the highest medical density and the highest nursing density. I am not saying that we should belittle that problem, but I am concerned when the Minister says that we will solve the problems of health care if we make sure to educate more people. When we saw the problem, we set up Göran Stiernstedt's investigation. We have significant problems with inefficiency in Swedish healthcare. Thankfully, this evidence was produced by the Alliance Government, which set up an investigation! This is what will hopefully enable the Minister to finally come up with a proposal in this area. But what worries me is that when the minister himself is going to try to figure out what the problem is, he points out that it is private companies in primary care that are concerned or that some county councils are successful with the choice of care. There is a lack of analysis.
i-3332cf619e423afa-997	Mr President, I would like to I hope everyone has noticed that I have not talked about healthcare choices or private healthcare companies here today, but it is Anders W Jonsson who talks about it. What I have talked about is how we solve accessibility problems in Swedish healthcare. I have talked about the supply of skills as a crucial factor behind this, especially in a short perspective. I have also highlighted the lack of efficiency in healthcare, where we need to make a major effort to reform Swedish health care, not least so that patients with the greatest needs, i.e. multi-sick elderly and chronically ill, can receive the care they are entitled to and deserve. You can always have a discussion about who should have the honor of setting up an investigation. I could counter that Göran Stiernstedt did most of the work during our reign. Can we not just be content with the fact that a good basis has now been established? Now, for the first time in many decades, we have the basis for a major health reform in this country. I look forward to discussing this with the alliance parties. I look forward to finding common solutions. The journey we are going to embark on in terms of reforming and improving Swedish healthcare will not take a year or two, but a large number of years, because there are huge changes that need to be made. However, if we are at the same time to deal with the acute problems in Swedish health care, we must not just go to symptom treatment, but we must go to the root. The question must then be about the supply of skills in Swedish healthcare. Leadership and governance are not unimportant, but if we do not improve the supply of skills, we will not solve the problem. Anders W Jonsson is absolutely right that we have a lot of doctors in this country. But you did not mention that at the same time we are one of the countries in the OECD area with the lowest percentage of general practitioners. That is an important reason for the problem.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1001	Mr President, I would like to If I'm not mistaken, the area of eHealth is a matter of concern to the Government. People in the everyday life of healthcare have waited a long time for journal systems to be able to talk to each other and to be able to print prescriptions effectively, but this is an area that is much wider than that. It is about automatic monitoring and means of various kinds. It is very important that you have the development and quality assurance of these systems and also train the staff who will use it all. The E-Health Agency plays a very important role here. Now it's moving. What has happened to other authorities that have moved? There is a skill gap that is very important. The authorities, as it were, lose their memory during the move. For the medicine control, which moved only from Stockholm to Uppsala, i.e. not so far and from one university to another, it took ten years before you were in the standard again. Now the E-Health Agency is moving to Kalmar. How can we prevent that authority, which loses almost all personnel, from also losing its memory during the move?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1004	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Westerholm, for raising eHealth issues in this debate. These are issues that are extremely important for the modernisation of Swedish health care. They are also important in the light of the recently completed line shift on how we improve the supply of skills. We know that when we compare ourselves with other countries, we can see that Swedish health professionals devote an excessive amount of time to documentation and administration of various kinds when they should instead spend time meeting patients. This creates not only frustration but also patient safety problems and can ultimately lead to a loss of confidence in the health care sector on the part of patients. That is why this is an issue that is very important to the government. We chose to move the E-Health Agency, because we had a review of a number of authorities where we saw that it is important that the state's activities are located throughout the country. It is important not least on the basis of the objectives that I think we are fairly agreed on in this House – that the whole country should live and that it is not only basic tasks or activities but also qualified ones that should be able to exist throughout the country. We decided that the E-Health Agency was an appropriate authority to move to Kalmar. There is already a small cluster on eHealth issues. And we believe that, not least with regard to Linnaeus University's educations, we should be able to cope with the skills supply. That doesn't mean it's unproblematic. Therefore, the government has both allocated funds to the agency in order to be able to cope with the relocation and given proper support in the form of organisational competence to the agency to fix this. There are examples of government transfers that have not been as successful. But the whole point of departure is that we have learned something from those examples and can now do this better.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1010	Mr President, I would like to I can't find a government transfer that's been successful. The establishment of new authorities is another matter. For example, I think it is excellent that the gender equality agency comes to Gothenburg. The Medical Products Agency moved to Uppsala. There was the Faculty of Pharmaceuticals, and there was an education in clinical pharmacology. But it didn't help. The agency lost its memory on the way. Then my question is: how can the skills that currently exist be handed over to those who are going to take over so that there is no glitch? It is a fairly small part that exists in Kalmar today, and it is about a very wide field. Then I cannot help raising the issue of HIV and the halving of the funding. We heard in a previous line round that it should not affect the organisations. But it has a signal value to go out and say: Now we are halving the grant. Then it sounds like you've blown the danger over. Those who are treated with drugs are no longer contagious. But it is still an incurable disease. It's deadly if you don't get a cure. It is sexually contagious, and there will be newly infected. Sexually transmitted infection is unstoppable. It will then be important to signal in generation after generation that this is something you take seriously. I would like to ask: how is it underlined that it is still serious, despite the fact that the allocation is halved?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1014	Mr President, I would like to I am a little surprised, because Mr Westerholm used a large part of his main contribution to the debate to talk about the importance of the person responsible for a question being given that responsibility and taking that responsibility fully. In Sweden, disease control work is a responsibility for county councils. In the area of HIV, there has been a special solution, where the state has gone in with targeted funds to the organisations and to county councils and municipalities. This is based on the view of HIV and AIDS. This has been pointed out as something specific and special, distinct from some other infectious diseases. This has probably been necessary during the journey, for it was a special situation. At the same time, however, it has helped to create a stigma and to deal with it in special order. With this transfer of funds, we want to say: HIV is an infectious disease like others, and the main responsibility should lie with the county councils in this case. At the same time, we increase the general state grants to the county councils by several billions, which means that there is money for the county councils to continue to be able to prioritise this work. For example, I know that Västra Götaland will do just that. As far as transits of this kind are concerned, we know that non-profit organisations sometimes get caught. That is why we chose to say: precisely the money for the organisations should be earmarked so that they do not get withdrawn funds and thus difficult to reset and modernise the business. We have chosen to do this with reference to the principles of management and the principles of disease protection.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1019	Mr President, I would like to I will say something about the last debate on the HIV allocation. It would have been one thing if the responsible authorities had been notified in good time, if they had notified the county councils, who are responsible, that there will be a difference before they had established their budgets. Many county councils had already decided on the budget for next year when they learned that the aid would be halved. But my question to the Government is really about something quite different. It's about the increased queues. In recent years there has been a drastic increase in care queues, and we see that queues continue to increase. I fully agree with the Government that it is not possible to believe that there is a single measure affecting the queues, but there are many things. The staff is of course an important part, but we see how well-being among the staff is reduced because the government chooses to focus on the wrong things. You can look at the latest public figure for the queues. There are 424 300 people waiting in line. Many of them have been waiting for more than three months. Should all these people stand in a queue that starts outside the parliament chamber, the queue would stretch all the way to Mjölby. So many people are waiting for care today. My question to the Government is: Has the decision to remove the queue billions affected in any positive direction? There was a small percentage point increase in the care queues at the end when we chose to broaden the assignment time after time with the queue billion. But it is nothing compared to the drastic doubling of queues that has taken place since then.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1025	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but respond to Emma Henriksson's speech on the HIV allocation. Why didn't the county councils find out about this before? When I am in Parliament, I have to say that it is, of course, out of respect for Parliament. Surely it cannot be the right order for county councils to know what comes in the budget before it has been presented to the Swedish Parliament? It seems very strange. With regard to the problem of queues, I would like to assure both Emma Henriksson and the House that I am as worried as Emma Henriksson. The problem risks undermining confidence in health care. And, of course, it is an inconvenience and perhaps a suffering for individual patients. Therefore, we need more than we have done so far from different parties to prioritise increasing accessibility within Swedish healthcare. I would like to emphasise once again that it is a question of improving the supply of skills. It is about remedying the root causes of the problems that we see. Everyone well realizes that accessibility is deteriorating if there are no doctors or nurses in place. It is clear that care places may close if patient safety cannot be guaranteed, for example, because of the lack of specialist nurses. That is why the government's efforts have focused on this. That is also why we removed the queue billions. We saw that this money could be better spent and that it would be more useful if it were used for efforts to improve the supply of skills. One of the areas where they may have done the most good is to provide good financial conditions for nurses who choose to train as specialist nurses. It is an area where there has been a shortage in Sweden for a very long time.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1029	Mr President, I would like to I usually in many contexts when I'm out talking about health care issues highlight that the government actually does some things that are good when it comes to health care. The government has chosen to pursue efforts in several areas. The government stood in the speaker's chair and beat its chest when, for example, it concerns the area of cancer. These are actions initiated by the previous alliance government. At least much of the work has been carried out. And Sweden delivers good health outcomes in many areas. But there are areas where the government has chosen to make proper efforts by making new decisions. There are areas where people have chosen to go in and change, or where they have created a strong concern among the very health care professionals who are crucial to the functioning of Swedish healthcare. Yeah, that's where we see the effects. The embodiment was a tool that we noticed worked. The government made a unilateral decision to remove the queue billions. This was a billion that was used to stimulate shorter queues and that gave effect – it gave shorter queues. Because of the government's decision, we now have people who could line up all the way to Mjölby. Instead, the government refers to the fact that other efforts have been made, but the result of these efforts is that the queues are growing. Is there not, then, any insight on the part of the Government or the Government that the measures taken have produced the wrong results? It's time to redo and do the right thing.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1034	Mr President, I would like to I realise, of course, that it is part of the opposition's task to criticise the government. However, I am concerned that it has now been so unilaterally postponed that the removal of the queue billions is the whole reason why the queues are growing, while at the same time saying that the introduction of a new queue billion is the whole solution to the queuing problem, especially since the so-called Alliance does not seem to agree on the excellence of the queue billion. Emma Henriksson used part of her replica time to ralli over Karin Rågsjö and over that Karin Rågsjö and Left Party claim that there are evasive effects. She also read aloud from a number of reports. That line might as well have been addressed to Cecilia Widegren, a leading representative of the Moderates, who not long ago stated in an article in the DN Debate that the queue billions had evasive effects. So there seems to be complete disagreement within the so - called Alliance about the excellence of this. Your draft budget contains slightly different wordings as to whether or not to introduce a cue billion. Some have money for a queue billion, in full. Some have money for three quarters of a million. Others have no money at all for any queue billions. The question is: How can you put everything on a card of which there seems to be so much confusion in the bourgeois camp?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1039	Mr President, I would like to This is the last debate of the year in this House, if I have seen correctly. Then it is right and proper that we discuss and debate jobs. the sun shines on large parts of different industries and on many people who have a job to go to. Unfortunately, there are also a lot of dark clouds in the labour market, and I intend to highlight, discuss and discuss that with you. Many people are doing well in the labour market, but others are not doing well at all. Many struggle to return after a long sick leave, while others struggle to return after long unemployment or to get their very first job. Those who do are many now, Mr President. Those outside are becoming more and more, even though it is booming. It is a rather unusual situation, and it is very worrying. Outsiders are approaching 1 million. The people who struggle in different ways to get in and come back are not very helped by the picture that the government is trying to give of the Swedish labour market – that everything is peace and joy. Of course, they are not helped by the government not seriously presenting reforms so that they will have a chance to get back to work. In our budget motion in the report, we moderates have highlighted several reforms that are needed in the Swedish labour market. I would like to mention four, which I recommend to the government to take on board and implement. Firstly, there is a need for reform of the LAS. In our budget exercise we lift up parts that are central to getting the first job. It is about first-job employment, which is a completely new form of employment in the Employment Protection Act and which all companies should be able to use. When you learn the job at work, you have some training, and you do a job. We have seen that job creation contracts have become far too few and that they are very limited by the agreements that exist. More companies and employers need to be able to use this option. This is an important step that we need in the Swedish labour market. In our motion, we have also proposed extended probationary periods. Secondly, reform Arbetsförmedlingen! We have heard that the government intends to do this, but we have not seen much of it. We simply have to stop dwindling with an authority that does not deliver results. It is largely an ineffective authority, which the Minister for Labour seems to have completely lost its grip on. We have major problems with procurement. We see that employment intermediaries discriminate. These are very bad results. That is why the previous government and I as Minister of Labour appointed the largest review of the Employment Service since the 1990s – we saw major problems. We wanted to develop new reforms and propose changes. Among other things, it was about how Arbetsförmedlingen should work with private actors. There are others who are very good at matching, but the Arbetsförmedlingen is not always that. This investigation threw the government into the trash can. I find this sad, because it delays important reforms. Thirdly, in our budget motion, we propose a reform dealing with labour market training. There is a kind of strange preference among politicians for these educations. In its budget, the government spends around 1.8 billion a year on labour market training, even though we know that they have very little effect. In some cases it is actually worse to take a job training course than not. It is exactly the same with the preparatory training and efforts. It is totally reprehensible that we use taxpayers' money in this way and in something that does not work. We propose shorter vocational training courses, which allow employers to participate from the outset in the selection of those who are to attend the training courses and during the programme design of the training courses. We need vocational training, there is no question of that. But we cannot waste the money on what does not produce results. Fourthly, we are proposing a reform concerning wage subsidies. We suggest more, but to gain time, I only mention four. I have heard this government's Minister for Labour mention that some time in the future it is envisaged to simplify wage subsidies. It can't be that hard. We have made a good proposal, with eight different wage subsidies being one. It is effective and easier to use for employers and much easier for a job seeker to understand what it is all about. It will thus be easier for everyone, for employment intermediaries, employers and job seekers. We Moderates have presented this proposal. It's done. I do not understand why the government should need so long to present this. The Employment Service has also presented a proposal to the government, so that the government does not even have to do the job itself. Still, it's taking a while. Mr President, I would like to My speaking time is almost up. I was going to say a few more things. But I'm gonna keep time today, and I hope everyone else after me will too. I'll have to deal with other things later in any lines. Sweden needs reforms. It is remarkable that a government of social democrats and environmentalists, who, for eight years in opposition, had a very high voice about all that needed to be done, did not deliver reforms.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1056	Mr President, I would like to Reading the moderate exercise in this area is very much about helping different groups of people in different ways. Those who are unemployed should be helped by receiving lower unemployment benefits. Those who need it most, as you put it, should also be helped by getting lower wages. Then there are other areas related to this, where sick people should be helped by receiving lower compensation. If we focus on unemployment, unemployment insurance during the moderate-led government's time was changed in such a way that Sweden went from belonging to the countries that were among the better in the OECD to giving compensation to the unemployed to fall far below the average when it comes to how much of the previous income was, so to speak, insured. Moderate policies seem to remain unchanged. Whether it is a question of increasing unemployment during the bourgeois period or of reducing unemployment during this period, the unemployed should receive lower compensation. Then I have a thought. Is it a correct description that the Moderates are proud of the policies that they pursued and that caused Sweden to fall in its position in relation to unemployment insurance and that they want to continue to lower this allowance further if they are given the opportunity to do so? That's my one question. My second question concerns probationary contracts and the extension of the probationary period. I wonder if Elisabeth Svantesson has thought about the following: if, after six months, an employer has still not understood whether an employee is suitable for her job, does it possibly say anything about the employer's suitability as an employer?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1061	Mr President, I would like to Let me say a few words about the eight years of alliance that Ali Esbati and I have debated many times before. So did we when I was in the government. If there is one thing that I am very happy and proud of, it is that in very tough years we managed to cope well with the financial crisis and managed to increase employment. What does all the expertise – the government's own expert authority and researchers – say? Well, they say that the policy pursued meant actually making it more profitable to work. We lowered the treasure. Ali Esbati doesn't usually like it so much that nurses get to keep more in their wallets. But all of this, together with the fact that we tightened up the unemployment fund, has led to an increase in employment. Employment grew by 350 000, despite a very severe financial crisis and difficult economic years. This is to a very large extent due to the economic policy we conducted. I'll never be ashamed of that. On the contrary, I will find that very good. It is no secret that we still think it should be even more profitable to work. How do you help people to work? Yes, this is done through policies that stimulate entrepreneurship, so that companies want to grow and hire. That's how you can help people to work. In addition, labour market policies are needed that facilitate and lower thresholds through, for example, good wage support. I think that's an incredibly important effort. I would like to put a question to Ali Esbati, who belongs to a party that supports this government. Is Ali Esbati satisfied with the level of A-cash currently in force and with the taxes currently in force? Are you satisfied with the policy that is currently being pursued and that you support?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1065	Mr President, I would like to I'm a left-winger, so I'm never happy. There are lots of things that we want to change and improve. That's a bit of the driving force for me in politics. But of course I'm happier when things go in the right direction than when things go the wrong way. There are, as it were, always different degrees in this. It is interesting that Elisabeth Svantesson mentioned nurses. It is precisely nurses and other groups working in welfare who have had to deal with a lot of the problems created by the major tax cuts carried out by the government that Elisabeth Svantesson put in. You can clearly follow the figures and see that the number of welfare workers in relation to the size of the population decreased. There's something we need to fix. Among other things, the government and the Left Party propose together in this budget 10 welfare billions, which Elisabeth Svantesson's party rejects. The issue of employment is interesting. It is clear that the employment rate has increased, but the employment rate has remained fairly stable. But the question is what the changes in the unemployment fund had to do with this. Elisabeth Svantesson says that all the expertise shows, and so on. I am, like Elisabeth Svantesson, an economist. I know how these models work. If you have models that say that if you lower the tax, there will be more jobs, then it will give rise to tax cuts. But if we look at figures and facts from reality – Sweden compared over time and Sweden compared to other countries – it turns out that reality is very complicated in a completely different way from what Elisabeth Svantesson suggests. What we definitely see, then, is that if we pursue a policy of employing fewer people, for example in our common welfare sector where the needs are great, it is not good for employment. When you talk about profitability and jobs, you might think that you should look in the same way at profitability for ordinary people who work as for the richest ones, namely that what makes it the most profitable to work is to have a high salary.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1071	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati is pleased that things are moving in the right direction. I am pleased that things are going in the right direction in several areas in Sweden, for example that we have achieved better results in school and that we have a boom. That's great. The problem is, it's going to be very wrong for a lot of people. It is going in the wrong direction when there are more long-term entries at Arbetsförmedlingen today in boom than it was in recession. It's going very the wrong way, I think, when you phase out phase 3 – you can definitely do that – but you don't give people any input. Many – several thousand – are at home and have no activity. They don't get that extra service they were promised during the election campaign. Many people who never enter the labour market are going in the wrong direction. We also have a government and a support party that does not want to broaden that door and that makes people never get in. You don't want to make it any easier. You don't want to make it easier for people to get in. Raising the tax is the Left Party's answer to all questions. When it comes to winning the competition for who wants maximum A cashier compensation, Ali Esbati will win it. It's not something I'm ashamed of. We have increased the A-cassage compensation in our budget after we left the government in 2014. But it is still lower than the government, because we think it should be profitable to work. You should have a conversion aid for the first time as an unemployed person. But there's supposed to be a difference between working and not doing it. That is something we stand by. There's nothing weird about that. Ali Esbati and I have talked about this many times.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1076	Mr President, I would like to I will ask Elisabeth Svantesson two simple and concrete questions. What are the objectives of the Moderates for labour market policy? And what kind of unemployment case do the Moderates have?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1077	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start with the last question. I do not believe that a target should be set for unemployment. I do not think that is the wisest thing to do, because I think we should focus on full employment. Then you have to have a policy that actually stimulates that very thing. So you must continue to make it more profitable to work, i.e. not raise taxes too much for ordinary people who work – and preferably not raise them at all, but lower them. That's a very good point. I have already forgotten the first question. I'm sorry about that. I don't know if it's because I've had too little sugar in my body. Can Patrik Björck repeat the first question? I didn't write it down.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1079	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the questions were simple. I do not know whether I need to repeat the first question because the remarkable thing is that Elisabeth Svantesson could not answer any of the questions, neither the one she remembered nor the one she did not remember. I can tell Elisabeth Svantesson that the Moderates have a target for unemployment, Mr President. It is easily remarkable that the party's spokesperson is not aware of this. As I know politics, Mr President, one goes into an electoral movement and meets the voters. It imposes obligations on the electorate by saying: if we are allowed to implement our policies, that is what we are going to do. When Elisabeth Svantesson met voters in the election movement that resulted in today's Parliament, the goal for the Moderates was to work 5 million in 2020. That is probably what the voters have been promised; otherwise Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates will have to go out and deny it. When this target was set – that was two years ago – it was found that it would correspond to an unemployment rate of approximately 6.4%, according to the Institute of Economic Development. It happens to be the unemployment figure that Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates took over when they won the 2006 elections – and which they then called a mass unemployment. I understand that Elisabeth Svantesson, as the spokesperson of Moderates' labour market policy, does not want to know that objective, Mr President.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1083	Mr President, I would like to It is even more remarkable that a person who has been on the Labour Market Committee for ten years does not know the difference between employment and unemployment. There is a difference between having an employment target and having an unemployment target. I'm just saying. Let me remind you of some of the election promises of the Social Democrats in 2014! It is now that Patrik Björck's party has the government power. In the 2014 election campaign Patrik Björck met the voters and said that they would arrange 52,000 trainee services and extra jobs. Let me remind you that right now it's well 254 trainee jobs and somewhere around 1,500 extra jobs – maybe 1 600 if you count nice. That is about a 3% achievement in terms of what was promised to voters in 2014. Number one: we did not have an unemployment target; we had an employment target. Number two: It is probably good to remind yourself, now that you have government power, not to sound like you did during the opposition period. Take responsibility for the election promises you and your comrades exhibited, Patrik Björck, and make sure you live up to them! You also promised many other things, which we do not have time for in this change of line. For example, you would reform Arbetsförmedlingen. Now everything goes even more downhill with Arbetsförmedlingen than it did before, I would say. Think about the election promises you exhibited, Patrik Björck! For now it is you who rule. It is you who govern the kingdom. Then meet the voters a little later – perhaps by trying to achieve the goals you set out.
i-TrwPBsdQ5dHHeBLD5krtsv	Mr President, I would like to We are today debating both the AU2 Area of Expenditure 14 Labour Market and Working Life and the AU4 Labour Market Policy and Unemployment Insurance, which mainly deals with sports from the general period of exercise. At my disposal, like everyone else, I have only six minutes' speaking time for my speech. The President and the group leaders have also announced requests for restraint in line with the changes to the debate. On this basis, it is quite remarkable that Mr S. has three members registered for the debate. When we debated the AU1 yesterday, there were six speeches by social democrats. It is, of course, everyone's right to take part in the debate; it is not. It is a self-evident democratic right to participate in the debate as a member of this Parliament. So do not misunderstand me on this point! It's obvious. But there is, of course, a reason why the Social Democrats do so. For the party sees a need to show internally that you are doing something – that you are doing a job. To be honest, there hasn't been much about it in the last year, has there? On the contrary, you sit at the Ministry of Labour and roll your thumbs. Nothing's happening. No political reforms are being implemented, there will be no proposals and there are no dossiers for us in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to deal with. Two of the most important policy areas to meet the challenges of the future, the labour market and the establishment of newcomers, are managed by the elbow. It has been so bad at times during the autumn that we in committee did not hold a single committee meeting for almost a whole month. We simply had no business to deal with — for almost a month! On other occasions, some Director-General or Minister has been invited to give talks, mostly in order to put a committee meeting on the agenda. We members from the other parties have therefore had to find other important assignments and tasks to justify our fee. I myself have, for example, been on behalf of Parliament on three election observations during this little holiday from the Labour Market Committee. I have been twice in Moldova and once in Macedonia. The total number of working days has been 13. Mr President, I would like to In the AU2 report, we have a special opinion because unfortunately the government has achieved its budgetary framework. They passed parliamentary treatment, of course, to the chagrin of companies, entrepreneurs and citizens who are now once again having to pay the world's highest taxes for an increasingly poor welfare, a police authority in a state of disintegration and a non-existent defence – not to mention an integration policy in a free case and a labour market policy that has no means whatsoever to meet the challenges of the future. Fortunately, the disastrous red-green government lives on borrowed time, but the Alliance's inability to take responsibility for the country unfortunately gives the government another two years to make life miserable for the Swedish population. As far as the AU4 is concerned, I am in favour of reservations 4, 10 and 15. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats are investing about 2 1⁄2 billion more for the next year than the government in labour market policy. We redistribute resources from a long-standing outdated and failed integration policy to an offensive labour market policy that has the potential to provide jobs, self-sufficiency and thus a solid foothold into Swedish society. Today we have around 600 000 adults in Sweden without upper secondary school education. Many of them were born outside Sweden. We also have many young people who, for various reasons, finish high school without a high school degree. We Swedish democrats have proposed in our budget for the expenditure area an apprenticeship which we believe can be the solution to many of today's problems for foreign born adults, for young people and also for Swedish born without upper secondary education. We have analysed what has gone wrong with previous governments' efforts and how apprenticeship schemes have been successfully developed in Germany and Austria, for example. We have also listened to the wishes of companies. Our proposal provides substantial support to employers who wish to receive one or more apprentices. It is both administrative and financial support – including the abolition of employers' contributions. We also understand that an employer does not want to take the risk of hiring an inexperienced youth or a foreign born with a hard-to-validated background. Therefore, an apprenticeship should be considered a probationary period, with a maximum duration of three years. Furthermore, we do not want to exclude a large majority of the country's serious small business just because they are non-collective. Our proposal is aimed at over 600 000 adults without upper secondary school qualifications and over 300 000 upper secondary school students. Nuclear material is then studied in school a few days a week. Other days you learn a profession in a workplace and get paid. We propose that, for this form of employment, a minimum wage be legislated outside collective agreements. An alternative is if the social partners can agree on a reasonable level of remuneration. It is, of course, preferable for this particular training on the labour market. We also propose that such a salary be fixed in relation to other subsidies or support, in order to avoid negative marginal effects. Mr President, I would like to The Government's Löfven declared early in its term of office a kind of overall goal for its policy: that Sweden should have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. I can inform you that Germany and Austria have the lowest unemployment rates over time. There, 52 and 53% of young people have taken part in apprenticeships. This compares with Sweden's modest 7%. That is something for everyone in this House to consider. The key to success is probably in apprenticeships. But it is necessary to make the form of education more attractive, both for businesses and for unemployed young people. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I am pleased that the LO leadership has now supported the long-standing demands of Sweden's democrats for the re-regulation of labour migration. This is a means-tested labour migration where possible labour migration is redirected to sectors with a shortage of labour. We welcome that. What do you always say? Even a blind hen may find a grain. LO has just found its grain.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1106	Mr President, I would like to It is always strange to listen to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. So he used 1 minute and 17 seconds of his six-minute debate time to explain the rules of debate to us. That is something the President has already done, and they are in writing in front of us on the benches. Then Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström speaks for 7 minutes and 12 seconds. It's a rather strange approach. Mr President, I would like to However, my question is of a different nature. Will Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström tell his constituents that he is deceiving them? Will he tell us that what he tells in the streets of the electoral movement and possibly when he meets the voters on his so-called trips out in the country is not true? He doesn't act the way he says he should. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and his party colleagues do not vote for their own politics. They vote for Moderate politics. To take a small example, this means a reduction in unemployment benefit. Mr President, I would like to Is Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström going to tell his constituents that he is deceiving them?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1110	Mr President, I would like to It's very simple, Patrik Björck. You're lurking your own and others' voters right now using this rhetoric. You know very well how it works. In this House, we are voting primarily on our own draft budget. That's what we want through. We also call on everyone else to vote for it. That's what the bill system looks like. When our proposal, which was our first-hand option, had fallen and no longer applied, we stood and chose between either abstaining or choosing a different overall option, in which the unemployment fund was a small part of the framework. What did we do? Then we chose to support the Moderates' options, because their overall options were better than those of the government. However, the unemployment fund was included in our proposal. And that was our first choice. Patrik Björck knows that very well.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1115	Mr President, I would like to The consequences of the somewhat strange behaviour of the Swedish democrats, not voting for their own policy but for another policy, were that the unemployed had to wait far too long before they got their increase in unemployment benefit. In practice, this meant that the unemployed in Sweden had a difficult economic situation. It's problematic in itself. However, if you had told the voters before you came here, it would still have been acceptable in some sense. I have no problem with the Moderates wanting to lower unemployment benefits if they tell the voters before the elections. It's fair play. However, the deception and falsification of the Swedish democrats is democratically questionable. I just wanted to draw attention to that. And I will continue to pay attention to it.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1118	Mr President, I would like to At that time, after our own draft budget had fallen, we chose to vote on the Moderates' proposal: The citizens of the country avoided burdensome tax increases. 中 Companies in the country avoided burdensome tax increases, which the government is now implementing, a little later, instead. We could keep some of the jobs in the country. We were able to maintain some of the faith in the future. But now, with the tax charges imposed on the Swedish people by the government, you feel the weight. I can promise you that, Patrik Björck. And that's not a funny weight to carry. When it comes to not standing up for their election promises, it is probably two weeks since the Social Democrats voted against our proposal on main responsibilities for, for example, contractors for construction companies. It voted against its own policy in this area. The social democrats themselves have said that the main contractor's responsibility should be introduced when a developer in the ranks takes in subcontractors who do not offer the right conditions. But the House voted against it. Don't throw stones in glass houses, Patrik Björck! You know very well how the bill system works in the Riksdag. Don't play theater in this chamber! It doesn't honor you.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1126	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating Area of expenditure 14 Labour market and working life. It is an extremely important area for many people. The Swedish labour market is currently facing a rather unique challenge. We have a fantastically strong economic situation, which we should just be happy about. But at the same time, exclusion increases. The labour market divide is strengthened and matching is deteriorating. If nothing is done forcefully, Sweden risks getting up to one million people who could work but who instead live on benefits or unemployment funds and who, with it, are increasingly away from the labour market. To break that, responsible reforms are needed. The demand for labour needs to be strengthened by the creation and growth of more businesses. The Center Party wants to reduce the cost of hiring, simplify the rules for starting and running businesses and make it cheaper to invest in growing companies. The supply of labour needs to be strengthened. It should always pay off to work. It is essential that the education system works and gives people the skills they need for jobs and development. This applies to both theoretical and practical education, both in school and further education. Matching in the labour market needs to work better. The Center Party believes that it is necessary to substantially reduce the scope of inefficient labour market policy programmes and reform the Public Employment Service in essence. Learning at work must be made easier by combining work with education and practice. These three things – demand from growing companies, labour supply and a well-functioning match between job seekers and job creators – together form the basis for a well-functioning labour market. Structural problems in the Swedish labour market make it difficult for groups that are far from the labour market to find jobs. The group represents a growing proportion of the unemployed and is expected to account for more than 70 per cent of those enrolled in the Employment Service in 2017. Despite Sweden entering a boom, employment will turn down in 2018, and equilibrium unemployment will rise. The need for reform is evident. Surprisingly, both the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finances consider that the government's measures reinforce the problems rather than remedy them. The government also makes it difficult for entrepreneurship and job creation by increasing the cost of hiring. During the first two years of the government, a special wage tax has been introduced for those over 65 years of age who work, and the employers' contribution for young people has tripled. The increased costs of hiring make it difficult to enter and advance the exit from the labour market. It is particularly problematic in the light of the major socio-economic needs of extending working life. In addition to raising direct employment costs, the government has also chosen to reduce the financial conditions for ROT and RUT. This is done despite the fact that the Minister of Finance describes the RUT reform as a cost-effective measure to create jobs for those groups with relatively weaker links to the labour market. Overall, the government's measures will tighten domestic demand while at the same time reducing the conditions for employers who employ and want to employ those groups that are most difficult to enter the labour market. With regard to the proposals that form the basis of government employment policy, labour market policy measures and training efforts, there are several objections. Particularly serious is the risk that these measures will have a limited impact on the groups that should be given the highest priority. This applies to the most vulnerable groups who are furthest from the labour market and are currently increasing as a proportion of unemployment. Mr President, I would like to The Employment Service defines new arrivals, people with a short educational background, older people and disabled people as having a vulnerable position in the labour market. The Center Party has proposals to break the division and increase these people's chances of getting into work. Not all our efforts are locked to certain groups, but entry deductions, entry jobs and entry companies and an extended RUT deduction would be good for many new arrivals. For persons with a short education, apprenticeships and entry deductions are two well-balanced actions. For the elderly, short labour market training has proved effective. We also want to remove special payroll tax and strengthen the job tax deduction. In order for more disabled people to get jobs, we see fewer, simpler and, if necessary, more powerful employment support. For the young, we propose, in addition to the initial deduction, a summer job deduction. In addition, there are proposals for improved matching through the introduction of a job fixarpeng, greater job focus in various transfer systems and an improved business environment that can be expected to benefit all these groups. More may need to be done. However, the proposals that have now been put forward represent a first powerful programme aimed at breaking the division of two into the Swedish labour market. The starting deduction means that during the first two years that a person enters the Swedish labour market, no employer's contribution shall be paid on the part of the salary that is less than SEK 16 000 per month. The Centre Party also calls on the social partners to take responsibility for those who are out of work today and to lower the thresholds for new arrivals by creating entry jobs with lower entry wages during a period for new arrivals who do not get a job, in order to switch to regular entry wages after a while. In this way, new arrivals who are far from the Swedish labour market will have more opportunity to establish themselves in the labour market. It's a first step in. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations of the Centre Party and the specific opinions contained in the AU2 and AU4 reports, but for time-winning I only call for reservation 12 in the AU4. Later in the debate, Fredrik Christensson will present more proposals from our budget on behalf of the Center Party. Finally, I would like to wish colleagues and colleagues a joyful Christmas.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1144	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing both the budget proposal and a number of proposals on labour market policy and unemployment insurance. Let me begin with the budget, which is the result of negotiations between the Government and the Left Party, which continues the arduous work of redeploying labour market policy after a long, irresponsible and ideologically one-eyed right-wing approach. Sweden deserves a labour market policy based on the challenges and complexity of reality, not from fantasy notions that unemployment is some sort of self-chosen balance between pay and leisure time and that all problems can thus be solved with lower taxes for those who have a job and through economic pressure on those who have lost their job. The journey to an effective and inclusive labour market policy is hardly complete, but I am proud to have contributed to the right direction. I am also pleased to note that the budget bill forms part of a long-standing Swedish tradition in modern times, namely that the economic situation in general and the situation on the labour market in particular will improve if one avoids having a bourgeois government. Unemployment is falling and employment is increasing. In an international comparison, the employment rate in Sweden, i.e. simply the spirit of the population working, is very high. That's good. It is particularly gratifying that youth unemployment has fallen so sharply and also that the start-up mission has worked somewhat better. This should not be interpreted as meaning that everything is peace and joy in the Swedish labour market, far from it. We see a clear division where the situation is very strained especially for those who have low formal education, typically people without completed upper secondary education, and people who for some other reasons have had difficulty gaining a foothold in the labour market for a long time. It is also a serious social problem that many people who have jobs – especially young women in LO areas – have precarious jobs that make it difficult to manage even on a salary and who go with constant concern for the future. These are things that a good labour market policy must address. The budget shows that the government sees the problems of a two-tier labour market. A great deal of effort is also being made to increase opportunities for education and to strengthen targeted wage subsidies that can be very important to enable the long-term unemployed, often also disabled people, to enter the regular labour market. It is also to be welcomed that more concrete cooperation between different bodies is being initiated in order for newcomers, especially young newcomers, to establish themselves in the workplace. This is done by the delegation for young people to work – who have just worked to get the municipalities and the authorities together in a flexible way – now getting an expanded assignment. This is how you can take advantage of what is really good in Swedish administrative tradition. At the same time, on the Left side, we want to be clear that the really effective policy for more and better jobs is not about screwing labour market policy measures, but about a strong economic policy, about investing in what we need to do more of – common welfare, infrastructure, shift to sustainability. There too, of course, is more to be done, although, for example, the 10 billions of wealth in this budget is a proper and very welcome injection. Mr President, I would like to What, then, is the right-wing opposition's proposal in this area? How does one relate to the complex reality? Yes, simply expressed with ideas of wage cuts and cuts seasoned with flosskels recovered from their failed reign. The Moderates are releasing unemployment insurance, which during their time in government they carefully dismantled so that Sweden sank to the bottom of international comparisons. Apparently, it is thought that more people will get jobs if the unemployed find it more difficult to cope with everyday life. The contrast is great against the red-green budgetary cooperation, which has raised both the ceiling and the basic level of the unemployment fund after the election. It has gone hand in hand with an improved labour market situation. The bourgeois parties also want to use the state in various ways as a tool to push down wages in areas where the wage situation is already low today. It is important to pay attention to this. When Sweden needs more and better jobs, and political measures to equip people for today's and the future labour market in an advanced welfare country, then the political instincts of the right opposition instead lead them to call for active efforts to stamp out low-productive jobs with conditions that break down instead of building up. It is sad, but it is also an incentive to fight trade unionism and politics against this nightly politics. I also note that the right-wing parties in various creative and irresponsible ways are trying to scrape up money for their tax cuts. In this area, it is done by sneaking in a lot of ne cuts on government grants without caring about reflecting on the consequences. It says something about how you view your own role in opposition and also about their priorities. Not least, it is about cuts at the Swedish Work Environment Authority, an institution that felt huge cuts during the previous government. It is clear that the right-wing parties simply do not see it as so urgent to follow up on health and safety problems and to develop effective methods of remedying them. We are of exactly the opposite opinion, and I am proud that we are strengthening the Swedish Work Environment Authority, not least in order for more inspections to be possible. Mr President, I would like to As I said at the outset, today's AU4 report also deals with some other things than the budget. I would like to take up one of the Left Party's proposals in the report and also ask for the approval of reservation number 8, although I naturally support all the reservations. This is a problem of abuse and over-exploitation of subsidised employment, a problem which has grown widely in certain sectors, such as taxis, bus services and parts of the trade. Today you can find activities where even all employees receive some form of support from the Employment Service. So we have put in a system to bring someone in with support, and when the support stops, we say thank you and goodbye, and then we bring someone else in with support. More recently, the trade union press has highlighted examples where employers simply ask and demand that anyone who wants to work there should bring state aid. That's not how it's supposed to work. It is easy to see that meaningful supervision and follow-up will not be possible. A maximum limit would be needed for the number or proportion of employees with subsidised pay received by the same employer. In addition, trade union representatives normally have a good knowledge of the local labour market and of individual employers. Although they are to be consulted, it happens all too often that it does not happen in reality, and it also happens that you do not care about signals coming from the union. It is not good if you want to ensure control and quality according to the Swedish model. That is why we want it to be made clear that consultation should be carried out before each workplace's instructions, including in the case of new jobs, and that the opinion of the trade union organisation should always be carefully considered. We really need more order here. Mr President, I would like to We have more proposals, and there is much more to say about the need for stronger labour market policies and further reforms for broad and well-functioning unemployment insurance. However, since I have exceeded my speaking time and it is almost Christmas, I will end my speech here.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1163	Mr President, I would like to Before entering the chamber, I read my horoscope. It said, "Now the ideas you hatch should be able to be the solution for many." This is certainly not a hocuspocus, I have to say. For other things, it also says: ..................................................... Liberals have a number of proposals in the labour market area, and I would like to mention some of them because there are some lines of conflict between the alliance parties on the one hand and the government and the Left Party on the other. First of all, I would like to mention Sweden's two-tier labour market – at least it is becoming more and more two-tiered. The unemployment group is also becoming more divided. The part that is far from the labour market is growing. At the same time, we have a group of unemployed people who find a new job quite quickly. We have many new arrivals, which is a challenge. In fact, including them in the labour market is an extra challenge for Sweden. The supply of labour has increased considerably over the last ten years. We in the Alliance made changes in health insurance, which meant that people became active job seekers and then entered the statistics again. The financial crisis took out a lot of jobs. We have digitalization and technological developments that cause some jobs to disappear. In addition, we have had a large immigration to Sweden. The sum of all this means that we have a very important mission in the Swedish parliament to formulate a policy that allows more people to get jobs and that many new jobs can be created. Liberals believe that it is better to manage to get a job even if the job initially has a little lower salary than that people do not have a job at all and are forced to live on benefits. I am quite convinced that many people in Sweden agree with this for the simple reason that the first job you rarely get is the last one. It will be an entrance ticket to get into the labour market and gain experience and be able to learn things, to get contacts, a better CV, references, words of wisdom and all that. Then you can move on to the second, third, fourth and fifth jobs. We need to see how we can lower the thresholds so that more people get a fair chance to get in, be involved and help. We don't give up on people. When it comes specifically to the group of new arrivals, not all of them will be able to learn about the Swedish labour market. There are people who need a job faster. The European Commission, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund, the Financial Policy Council, the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs, yes, virtually all the expert bodies indicate that the high Swedish entry wages are problematic for employment and jobs. It seems mostly the government that doesn't really want to see this. There are also other conflict lines where we have some different perspectives. For example, the liberals have made it clear that Arbetsförmedlingen should focus mainly on the people who are the furthest from the labour market. Young people who are gone for a few months and who live in a full-speed-forward-exist can today find jobs without Arbetsförmedlingen. Employers do not have much confidence in the Employment Service, nor do many unemployed people. That time is over when we have one giant and swelling government agency to match up all the jobs. Today, people get jobs in other ways. A number of industries are completely self-recruiting on labour. This means that Arbetsförmedlingen must focus on those furthest away from the labour market, not on those closest to it. Mr President, I would like to I not only read horoscopes, but I also read the government website. There was today a press release with a very rich headline: Thus, the word amorous has slipped in there. In the text, it says:. Today, the Minister for Labour and Establishment and the Minister for Civil Affairs have invited several heads of government to a conversation about the implementation of modern preparedness jobs. ..................................................... These are very sossy and typical sossarna. The whole idea is that the labour market grows by a Social Democratic minister sitting down with someone from an authority and coffee. Then, unemployed people should be locked into a state or public place of work. There is no thought here of dynamism or companies that can grow where people become employees. You take a group, you give 100 percent subsidy, you send them into a public place of work, and the sosse minister solves everything together with the head of government. This is typical of the sossians and of a tradition with a rigid and static view of the labour market. Mr President, I would like to In this, only the five-year plan is missing. In the Liberals we do not have the same starting point and do not look at the labour market in the same way. We believe that the important thing is that jobs are created in a market. This means that we must have good conditions for our companies as well as good tax conditions. We must invest in education and research. You can't have an excessive rule. In an earlier change of line, the issue of labour migration came up. We have here in Sweden a lot of IT programmers that are being hunted with some kind of ajabajasocialism. They do not want to renew their work permit because of some minor misdemeanour by a former employer, a misdemeanour that occurred three years ago and has now been corrected. In Sweden, we need to shape a labour market policy that is flexible and where regulatory and bureaucracy do not burden the business community in a way that goes beyond jobs and growth. I would like to endorse Amendment No 6 to the AU4 report and wish all my colleagues a Merry Christmas.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1178	Mr President, I would like to I just swallowed the gingerbread that I got from the Minister for Employment, but I don't know if I'm going to be very nice– although we Christian Democrats are probably quite nice anyway, I think. This debate is very important and we are dealing with two reports in one fell swoop. For time winning, I begin by saying that I support our specific remarks in AU2 and AU4. I would also like to support our Alliance-wide reservation 12 and the Christian Democrats' reservation 2, both in the AU4. Mr President, I would like to We look with great concern at how the government in various ways makes it difficult for people in vulnerable groups to enter and remain in the labour market. Deterioration of RUT deductions and an increase in wage taxes for older people do not improve the situation, but increase the cost of hiring and hiring them. The government has started a lot of finding jobs, such as trainee jobs and extra services. The other day at SVT Nyheter you could see an article about Södertälje's employment agency. There they had not got a single person in a trainee job, even though they had the resources to do so. Jobs cannot be created. It is better for companies to be able to employ. There is a great deal that needs to be done. We probably have Europe's highest entry wages. Of course, it is good that people have high wages. It also creates growth. But many of the new arrivals in Sweden today have a very low level of education, many times extremely low. In this context, our entry wages are very high. This is a group where according to Arbetsförmedlingen many will not even be able to take in different types of education. Then, I mean, extraordinary efforts are required. As I mentioned here yesterday, today we have something that we call career introductions: the person works 100% but receives 75% of the salary and will learn the job less than 25% of the working time. It is a good model that has brought many into working life. We Christian Democrats just think it's a little complicated. Why should everything go through Arbetsförmedlingen? This applies to different ages, or you should be new arrivals and have been in Sweden for a certain number of months, or you should have been unemployed for a certain number of years or something else. This is extremely difficult for Arbetsförmedlingen to convey it take to know which group you belong to, and for employers who are going to trouble with a lot of application forms. Why not, we mean, make it so simple that the employee and the employer themselves agree on this? We have focused our introductory employment proposal especially on the group where according to the Konjunkturinstitutet there is no requirement for upper secondary education and where the salary is below approximately 22 000 according to the collective agreement. We relate to the collective agreement and do not intervene there. We say: let us use collective agreements up to 22 000 and bring about an educational situation. When you have come to Sweden, there is quite a lot you need to learn – in the Swedish labour market and in working life. In addition, this is not the case in all the different labour market measures that the Employment Service provides. There are exceptions to the Employment Protection Act. We think that is bad; it should be a serious employment process. So, Mr President, we advocate an introductory employment model for the future, which we hope will be heard. There is another group that I also use to mention here in Parliament, and it is they who have been part of the third stage of the employment phase called phase 3. We have had about 40 000 who have been involved in this effort – now the figure is down to about 14 000. Where, then, have these people gone? We know that many of them have great difficulty in finding employment, but if they get the right experience and support, they may be able to get out on the regular labour market. But no, a lot of people in this group are sitting at home today. And you know what they're called? Well, they're called in-house. It means sitting at home. This is a frightening development! My questions to the government parties are: What are you doing for this group? Where has everyone in phase 3 gone? Do you think they should sit at home, or what should they be offered? We in the Christian Democrats are proposing an increase in wage support. The government is raising wage subsidies, and we think that is a good thing. We are one of the few alliance parties that have supported the increased ceiling in order to receive wage support. We want to raise it to 17 260. In addition to the government's efforts in this area, we are therefore adding SEK 100 million. We believe that this will mean that more people dare to employ people in this group, who are sometimes difficult to place themselves in the labour market. Labour market policy programmes currently amount to around 11 billion. That's an incredible amount of money! In addition, Arbetsförmedlingen costs SEK 8 billion. All these efforts pay very little, and we have therefore withdrawn a large part of them. Instead, we invest SEK 1.8 billion over four years in professional adult life. We have seen that it has produced better results than labour market policy measures which sometimes even lock people up and delay entry into the labour market. When it comes to the Employment Service, where we have a reservation, we think it is a tragic situation. There are 12 600 employees who administer approximately 10.3 jobs each at a cost of SEK 8 billion. It's less than one job a month. This has reduced confidence in the Public Employment Service. Something needs to be done, and we have therefore continued to argue that part of Arbetsförmedlingen's activities should be opened up to competition. There are things that can be done. Then there are government-specific issues which, of course, must remain with some type of authority. But let people get some kind of work money! Look at how other systems work, and make sure to find a Swedish model of competition for Arbetsförmedlingen! Finally, I would just like to mention the special salary tax for the elderly. During the alliance government, we removed the salary tax for the elderly at 8.5%. The new government reintroduced payroll tax at the turn of the year 2015/ 16, so it becomes more expensive to hire older people. This tax on the diligence of older people reduces the drive to remain in the labour market. We think that's stupid. In addition, we believe that the special job tax deduction that older people have had should apply from 64 years instead of 66 years. We therefore want to see more efforts to ensure that more people remain in work and more resources for Swedish welfare. It also creates good health for a lot of older people, who can stay longer in working life. Mr President, I am sorry to have gone over time.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1199	Mr President, I would like to School results are rising. Unemployment is falling. The construction of new homes reaches record levels. It is half-time in the term of office of the Socialist-led government. Much has been achieved, and much remains to be done. The challenges are great, but progress has been reversed. After eight years with a moderate-led government it looks once again bright for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to When I started the computer today, I received a new report from SCB: The number of employed persons aged 15 to 74 was 4,947,000 in November 2016 – a non-seasonally adjusted figure. This is an increase of 74 000 compared to November 2015, of which 51 000 men. The number of unemployed persons was 328 000, or 6.2 per cent. The average number of hours worked was 164.5 million per week. Seasonally adjusted and balanced, this corresponds to an unemployment rate of 6.8 per cent. This is a picture of Sweden in November 2016. In order to understand what is happening, it is important to understand the differences between the policies that we Social Democrats represent and the policies that the Moderates represent. According to the Moderates' analysis of the labour market, Mr President, there is unemployment because the unemployed do not want to work. It is believed that by making unemployment difficult in various ways and the unemployment fund bad people will choose to work instead. If you do that analysis and take action on it, you will never succeed. That is not why we have unemployment in Sweden. We Social Democrats have a completely different analysis. We know that people suffer unemployment because they do not get jobs for various reasons. It can be recession so that the number of jobs is reduced. It may be that you are knocked out of a job and when you are going to enter the labour market you do not have education or experience that allows you to take the jobs offered. With this analysis, we Social Democrats are putting in a completely different policy. We are equipping the unemployed so that they can take the jobs that exist and that come. That is why, Mr President, we succeed – it is as simple as that. Sweden is doing well, Mr President. A well-known Swedish hamburger chain is also doing well. I thought I would use it as an example to highlight the difference in policy analysis and action. This Swedish hamburger chain is currently so good that you will hire 750 people, the vast majority of young people. This is done despite the fact that it has become a little more expensive to hire young people. It is not because it is more or less expensive that a hamburger chain hires someone, but because it depends on whether you can sell more hamburgers. When things go well in Sweden thanks to the Social Democratic-led policy, more, often young, buy burgers. Then you need to fry more burgers, and then you hire more. That is the analysis, and it is simply to congratulate the well-known Swedish hamburger chain on the fact that we have a Social Democratic-led government, Mr President. The aim of labour market policy is to contribute to the smooth functioning of the labour market and to contribute to improved matching between job seekers and labour seekers. The promotion of diversity and equality in labour market policies is obvious to us Social Democrats. Discrimination must be countered. The government's goal is for Sweden to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. This objective is to be achieved by increasing the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy. A well-functioning labour market that takes advantage of people's skills and willingness to work forms the basis for Sweden's welfare. The government's unemployment target is ambitious. The challenges are great, but this is an important part of the government's job agenda, and it is an important part of our labour market policy. Labour market matching should be improved. The shortage of labour is great in several parts of the Swedish labour market, and then the Social Democratic analysis is that we will equip the unemployed and invest in education and school. That is, of course, the requirement that exists. Too many young people begin their adult life in unemployment. Of course, even if the figure is falling now, it is important that it sinks even further. The group that is having a difficult time is those young people who do not have completed upper secondary education, young people with disabilities and young people who are born abroad and have come late to Sweden. That is why the government is taking the initiative to solve unemployment precisely for these groups, and that is why, among other things, it has introduced a so-called 90-day guarantee. We have a large number of asylum seekers and a rapidly growing number in the start-up assignment, which means that we must invest in providing the Public Employment Service with resources so that we can ensure that those who are newly arrived quickly get to work and that a larger proportion goes to work or training after completion of the establishment plan. It is important for Arbetsförmedlingen to be able to meet this challenge, and that is what the government does in this budget. Long-term unemployment is, of course, a continuing challenge. The inflow to phase 3 is now stopped. In answer to Mrs Pethrus' questions, I can answer that labour market policy should be offered instead so that you can get back to work. One should not be parked in a measure that does not lead anywhere, as was the previous government's labour market policy. As you could hear in my line shift with Elisabeth Svantesson, that with goals and unemployment is interesting. The government is clear with its objective: we shall have Europe's lowest unemployment. We discussed the Moderates' goal a little bit, that 5 million should be employed by 2020. Of course, we can reflect on this objective a little. I noted in my line shift that it corresponds to the level at which the Moderates took over in 2006, which was then referred to as mass unemployment. You can continue to reflect on these figures for a while, and then you can see that Ylva Johansson, our Minister for Employment, who is sitting here, has in principle already achieved the Moderates' objectives. As you heard me tell here earlier, SCB measured 4,947,000 people employed in November. It is clear that the target that the Moderates wanted to achieve in four years is achieved in less than two years, and this summer, Mr President, we were actually above the target – in July, the SCB measured 5,059,000 in its Labour Force Survey. Ylva Johansson thus scored the Moderate's four-year goals in half the time. But we Social Democrats want so much more, and I therefore support the committee's proposals in the AU2 and AU4 reports4.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1218	Mr President, I would like to I've got a thought. Patrik Björck argues that it is thanks to the current government that school results have been raised in Swedish schools. The Swedish Government Gustav Fridolin himself promised to save the Swedish school in 100 days, and Patrik Björck is probably the only one who assists that view. So far, I have not seen anyone from the Social Democrats seriously think that it is thanks to the government's restorer last year that the school results have been raised for the pupils who started school in 2006 and thus the first group to go through the Alliance school after the reforms we made. It's a rather strange attitude for me. Then it is better that Patrik Björck is honest and says that the reforms carried out by the Alliance Government in the field of education have contributed to the increase in school results and that it is good. I think it's fantastic that Swedish students perform better in school, but these students started school in 2006 and are thus the first group of students who have undergone Swedish school system with the changes made by the Alliance government and not least my own party. We made the biggest investment in Swedish school since the 1800s with a new curriculum, a new grade system, previous grades, national tests from year three and so on. Patrik Björck sat in this Chamber year after year and pressed the red button on every reform. The reforms are now in place and the results are improving. Then Patrik Björck has the stomach to stand in the pulpit and claim that this is somehow the government's credit. Moral is good, Mr President, but double standards do not have to be twice as good. Patrik Björck is welcome to explain this.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1224	Mr President, I would like to It's not that hard to explain. I began my speech by describing the world in which we live, and in Sweden school results are rising, unemployment is falling and the construction of new housing is reaching record levels. This is the environment we are in now, and on this basis I describe the government's labour market policy, because these three elements are interrelated. If we do not invest in school as we Social Democrats do now, we will have problems in the labour market in the future. If we do not ensure that housing is built, it will be an obstacle to a functioning labour market. I give a picture of the environment and the situation in which Sweden finds itself, and that picture is the starting point for my speech, Mr President. It's no stranger than that. We're prioritising these parts. Education is an important part of combating unemployment, and it is of course important that we invest in school. I therefore find it difficult to understand Fredrik Malm's despair over the positive situation. Even if you are in the opposition, you should be happy that the country is doing well, our common country in which we are all citizens, and in which, hopefully, although we have different political inputs and perspectives, we are delighted when things go well. The fact that school results are rising, unemployment is falling and the construction of housing is reaching record levels is only a correct description of what it looks like in Sweden today.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1229	Mr President, I would like to The arbitration here is not about whether you think it is good or bad that Swedish school students perform better. Of course we all think it's fantastic! I guess everyone's happy about that. Patrik Björck stands in the speaker's chair and beats his chest and believes that it is thanks to the current government, which is a completely absurd claim given that the students who have performed better are the ones who started school in autumn 2006. Then I do not know Patrik Björck's party at the helm. It's getting a little bloated. The same applies to housing construction. It is clear that after land instructions, appeals and other things, the construction will start. But those decisions may have been made years ago. Mr President, I would like to Patrik Björck uses his speech to argue for why the Alliance's policy in all its parts was bad. But it is clearly the policy that has meant that Swedish school students perform better than before. Patrik Björck is therefore welcome to explain what he wants to put into school politics. What is it that Patrik Björck thinks is bad and wants to change? We can still agree that we should be happy that Swedish school students are now performing better. Then you should be proud of the changes that have been made and that have led to this.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1234	Mr President, I would like to Again, this is a description of the environment we are in today in Sweden. That is a correct description, and I have not quite understood Fredrik Malm's irritation about it. Let me explain the background a little more. If we are to maintain a labour market policy, we must, of course, have an education policy that works. The government that Fredrik Malm belonged to the foundation of in this House invested many times more in tax cuts than in the school. Let's turn this around and put money into the school. We do this because we know how important it is for us to succeed in labour market policy. This is about the group of young people I spoke about in my speech. They are the ones who are not in high school education, and they are the ones who become long-term unemployed young. If we do not go in and make substantial efforts in school, as we Social Democrats do, we will not stop the flow of young people who go out without a high school diploma. We need to make a school effort in order to manage labour market policies. That was the logic of my speech. It is the same with housing construction and the other parts that are positive here in Sweden. We are now investing heavily in housing, which the Alliance's parties do not want to do. You are opposed to our proposals in which we invest in housing construction. Of course, you will not be able to meet the challenge of building the required housing. It is partly about getting housing for people and partly about improving the functioning of the labour market. Housing is part of community planning that may not be as important as school but comes as number two after it in order to get a labour market that works.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1238	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved in both reports. The Government's investments in the construction of Swedish society for more jobs, better school results, faster climate change and stronger welfare are a prerequisite for Sweden to be a sustainable society in the future. The economy is moving in a positive direction, unemployment is falling and employment is rising strongly. Housing construction is on the increase, and new businesses are being created. At the same time, I would like to point out that, despite the positive developments, the problems of society remain, which must be combated. The unemployment rate of foreign born children is five times higher than that of natives. Unemployment remains high for young people, newcomers, older people and people with disabilities. Support of various forms and dimensions is needed to increase their ability to enter the labour market. Mr President, I would like to Unemployment is unevenly distributed in the population. The background from which you come plays an increasingly important role in your future prospects, while labour demand is high and more than 100,000 jobs are waiting to be filled. Matching needs to be improved. Mr President, I would like to Employment services should act as a key player to increase labour market matching. It is an authority that has received a lot of criticism for a long time, and it has been both justified and unjustified. However, I am pleased that the Public Employment Service has taken a number of measures to modernise and strengthen the Agency and its activities. An important part of Arbetsförmedlingen's ongoing development work is that the agency's management and head office should no longer in detail govern the local operations and priorities. Instead, managers and administrators at regional and local level will have more room to decide what needs to be done and how to do it based on the overall objectives, the regulatory framework and, of course, the local conditions. The ongoing rescheduling of labour market policies aims to improve matching. Labour market training needs to be improved so that it leads more to post-graduate work and can counter labour market shortages. Mr President, I would like to The government has set aside funds to introduce start-up support aimed at increasing recruitment for studies among some unemployed people aged 25 to 56 to strengthen their ability to enter the labour market. The agency's activities need to be more adapted to the needs of employers, as this is where the jobs end up. Mr President, I would like to There are some voices among the opposition who argue in various ways to lower entry wages in order to facilitate the entry of newcomers or young people into the labour market. According to the report "The road to full employment and fairer wages" there seems to be no clear correlation between low wages and an increase in employment rates. The Green Party believes it is important that work leads to security. It is important to be able to make a living without becoming dependent on benefits, to have a job with a salary that can be lived on, to have power over your own life and, above all, that everyone should be able to realize their dreams.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1248	Mr President, I would like to We have developments in the labour market which in many ways are very good. But we also have major challenges in the labour market. It is important to be able to see both of these perspectives at the same time so that action is taken in areas which do not work, while at the same time benefiting those who are already working well. Sweden has very strong growth. We stand out in the outside world with our high growth. Bnp is growing, and it's growing into new jobs. This is, of course, due to a good economic situation, but it is also due to the fact that the private sector is making very large investments. So they believe in Sweden and in development and want to invest in new jobs, and for that matter also in research and development in Sweden. This is also due to large public investments from both the state, municipalities and county councils. Clearly, then, there is confidence in growth in Sweden. It's obvious that a lot of people want to hire. So many people want to hire that today we have a shortage in almost all the professions registered in the Employment Service's code system. Obviously, many also want to retain older workers. The employment rate for those over 55 is the one that is increasing the most. Many people want to employ foreign born people, because among them too, the employment rate is increasing strongly. Sweden has the highest employment rate measured in Eurostat. Some things are obviously going the right way. However, we also have major challenges. Not everyone's coming. We have a two-way labour market where many people are left behind. Fortunately, we have a situation in the Swedish labour market where virtually all people are included. We have a record employment rate, but we also have an alarmingly high unemployment rate. When we look at those left behind, we see that they are people with a lack of education, often a disability and often for a short time in Sweden – or for other reasons they have had difficulty getting into the Swedish labour market for a long time and may never have entered the Swedish labour market. We also have significant risks in terms of growth, and that is the lack situation. Today, an increasing number of employers feel that the difficulty of recruiting staff with the right skills risks hampering growth both economically and in terms of new jobs. This is, of course, something we need to remedy. There is one area in which I think the government and I must state self-critically that we have not reached enough, and that is education. The government has invested heavily in more training places, but there are still relatively few participants in education. Not least the new arrivals. It is 5 – 6 % who, after the start-up assignment, progresses to regular training, and I think that is a very low figure. It is often said that education does not solve everything. I agree with that, but education could solve and facilitate the situation for more than 5 – 6 per cent of the new arrivals, not least when we look at the educational background that many people have with them when they come to Sweden. So it is an area where we need to do more to get more people in. We also need to do more in terms of getting more of labour market policies in education and training policies in labour market policies. Thessa need to draw close to each other in order for us to cope with the shortcomings that exist. I thought when listening to my opponents, not least when listening to my predecessor Elisabeth Svantesson, that there is reason to recall why I am the Minister for Labour and not Elisabeth Svantesson. That's because the old government failed at the jobs. It was precisely on this point that the voters failed the old government. We had a situation where youth unemployment was so high that we received EU support despite the fact that the government invested enormous resources – over 20 billion a year – in subsidies for the employment of young people, which apparently did not work. Now I listened here to Elisabeth Svantesson. I almost feel a little sorry for the Moderates, Mr President. They were concerned that they thought that the Social Democrats had a bri standing competence in opposition. But perhaps the concerns of the rulers were that the government parties lacked competence in government. Actually, that's what led to you not being able to do the jobs. The Moderates claim to be concerned about people who are far removed from the labour market. At the same time, the proposal that is now on the table, Mr President, reduces by 1 billion people with disabilities with wage subsidies and Samhall. I think it does not make sense to worry about those who are furthest away from the labour market. Moderates are concerned about the poor performance of labour market education. When the Moderates took over the Ministry of Labour, 70 per cent of those who attended labour market training received jobs afterwards. When the Moderates left the Ministry of Labour, we were down to a level where labour market education had zero or almost negative effects. So much had been done to reduce the workings of labour market training. Now it is turning upwards, but it is a little strange that you only now worry about the quality of labour market education when it was you who made the big change. Perhaps most remarkable, Mr President, is the fact that the Moderates want to lower the unemployment fund. Unemployment insurance is to be reduced on the grounds that people will then be given greater incentives to take up work, while new arrivals receiving start-up benefits will receive double compensation for incentives to take up a job. How does this make sense? Why does reduced pay work well for some groups of unemployed, while double pay is what stimulates other groups of unemployed people to take a job? I think it's a bad thing. My six-minute speaking time has been spent. There is more to say, but I will respect speaking time. I would like to conclude by wishing my fellow debaters – those I do not meet tomorrow at the exciting interpellation debates that we will have here then – Merry Christmas. Finally, I would also like to say, Mr President: Sweden has changed direction. We have left tax cuts that led to unemployment. Now we have a policy that goes towards jobs and justice.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1264	Mr President, I would like to I find it remarkable, or perhaps interesting, that the Minister for Labour is spending half his speaking time talking about Moderate politics and asking questions from the speaker's chair rather than telling you what you are going to do now when you are responsible for what actually does not work so well. The Minister for Labour usually says that labour market policy should be assessed according to the results. I think that's wise. If, then, we look at the results and precisely labour market policy – much of what the Minister for Employment spoke about before was not about that – we can ask ourselves what has happened over these two years. What are the results of what has been promised? As I mentioned earlier, the Social Democrats promised 52 000 trainee jobs and extra posts in the electoral movement. The result is a total of approximately 3 per cent of the target. If we look at Arbetsförmedlingen we see that validation of professional competence is now missing from November and up to six months ahead for the new arrivals. It is simply the case that labour market training has been postponed for billions due to a breakdown in the procurement of labour market training. If we look at the results at Arbetsförmedlingen we see that men and women are still treated differently. Men's efforts are much higher than those of women. In the midst of a boom, the result is that there are more long-term entries at Arbetsförmedlingen than it was when the Minister for Labour took office. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour: if it is the case that we should be judged by results when we have responsibilities, is the Minister for Labour satisfied with the results that I have now mentioned?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1270	Mr President, I would like to As far as the form of debate is concerned, we are debating two opposing policy options, and it is reasonable that the two options should be compared. I believe that those who listen to the debate want to do so. I am in no way satisfied with the developments, and I believe that was demonstrated in my speech. We are heading in the right direction, but there are very big challenges to be addressed. There are also areas that have not delivered as well as I would have liked, and this is particularly true of the investment in education. There are efforts, but the number of people involved in them is still too small for us to meet the challenges we have. On the other hand, I am not ashamed that we do not have many people in labour market policy measures. That is not the main objective of labour market policy. Labour market policy is designed to ensure that the labour market functions as well as possible. The main policy for finding more jobs and combating unemployment is to make employers able and willing to grow and employ. That is what is happening right now in Sweden. But labour market policy is needed, and targeted action is also needed especially for those furthest away from the labour market. Actions that do not work as well as they should have to be changed, because reality is always the case.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to those questions, the Minister for Employment. I can only say that we can certainly debate in different ways. I devoted the large part of my speech to telling you what reforms the Moderates want to see in order for the Swedish labour market to function better. I did not hear much of it from the Minister for Labour. I would like to ask one more question about results. I know that it was important for the Social Democrats to abolish the employment phase, and I respect that decision. What concerns me is that it is being phased out before giving people new, sensible and meaningful activities and efforts. We are now receiving reports from Arbetsförmedlingen that many are, as Mrs Pethrus mentioned before, inactivity. In fact, there is no effort at all. We are told by non-profit organisations that have contributed in a commendable way, for example in social enterprises, that many are now at home and are completely forgotten. I would like to hear the Minister for Employment put out a little bit of the text on the extra services and training promised to this group and for which there was great hope. Where does the training come in? Finally, when I have only 50 seconds left of my speaking time, I would like to wish everyone in committee, the Minister for Employment, Mr President and all the officials a really good Christmas. Thank you for a good debate! We will also be seeing and discussing results in labour market policy next year.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1279	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say something more about the results. Sweden's official labour market statistics are the most important findings to be obtained in terms of results. It is delivered monthly, and it was delivered no later than today. It shows that all curves are heading in the right direction. This does not mean that we are without challenges, as I have said several times, but the trend continues to move towards both an increase in numbers and an increase in employment, despite the fact that we have a very strong influx of new arrivals. This is proof of a very strong labour market. No, Elisabeth Svantesson, I am not satisfied if it is that people end up in passivity. That is not acceptable. I was very concerned by the report that the Public Employment Service presented, and I have raised the matter with the Director-General of the Public Employment Service. All the measures available in labour market policy at all are available to people in this group, who have been unemployed for a long time and who have been in phase 3. It is totally unacceptable that people should be left in passivity.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1283	Mr President, I would like to I say this again today: it is extremely welcome that the Minister is taking part in the budget debate. In my speech I understood that things are going very well, for which I think we should rejoice and be extremely grateful. At the same time, however, there is a structural problem, and we see that some groups are increasingly away from the labour market. We are pleased that things are going well, but the focus is still on the challenge that lies in the fact that a large proportion is far from the labour market. Both the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance Policy are also concerned and feel that the government's measures aggravate the problems rather than remedying them. In connection with the change of government in May this year, Mikael Damberg was given a special assignment to look at how to create more simple jobs in the business world together with the business community. It has been announced that reforms would be launched that would create opportunities for anyone who lacks a longer education. In the Minister's speech, she mentioned just that by providing opportunities for more people who want to grow to be able to employ. However, this is something that hangs in the air and does not land in any kind of concrete measures that can be seen in the budget for next year. I would like to hear how this work is going. Although I know that it was not Ylva Johansson who received that assignment, it is still closely linked to the minister's responsibilities.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1288	Mr President, I would like to It is not quite correct that groups are increasingly excluded from the labour market. When we look at group by group we can see that you have a positive development or at worst stand still. It is not the case that some groups move further away from the labour market. Annika Qarlsson is quite right, however, that we have new challenges. Traditionally, the group of short-skilled, or low-skilled, in the labour market has been people without upper secondary skills. Now we have a very large number of people who have very low levels of education, sometimes none at all. It is primarily about women who have never had the chance to go to school precisely because they were born as girls. This is, of course, a new challenge. The roads needed for these groups to enter the labour market have not existed in the past, but we must build those roads. There I give Annika Qarlsson the right – these roads we have to build more of. We've started building some of them. Extra services are one such thing – jobs that are not performed otherwise, which now seem to grow at an ever better pace out in municipalities and county councils. It is a question of modern state emergency work, especially because the state must also play its part. I have had a meeting with a number of Directors-General on this today. There will be instructions in all the regulatory letters. It is a question of extending the RUT deductions to more sectors, which can also contribute to the type of work with lower qualification requirements. It is also a matter of dialogue with the business community and with the social partners, which both me and Mikael Damberg have in terms of finding more easy ways into work. Such a route may be matching, using temporary agencies to equip, assist and relieve the employer in terms of risk-taking. This is a proposal which was made by the previous government and which I believe has the potential to become a reality.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1296	Mr President, I would like to The minister picked up several pieces here, but none of them feel like it could make the whole thing come loose. Extra services do not rouse the market, if you put it that way. As far as modern preparedness jobs are concerned, I do not think that women who have not been allowed to go to school at all are the target groups for such interventions and measures. It's not going to be big anywhere, it's going to be small parts. I was pushing for the investigation on matching positions to be done, and I think there are great opportunities there, but neither does it get real air under its wings. What's the concern? What's the problem? Is it about not pushing, or is there other resistance? Are all things in place for this to be a good thing, or are more efforts and measures needed? I know that we have different views on entry wages, but it is still somewhere in this line that discussions and reflections must move. Is there anything in those parts that could be brought into this that could move things forward?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1301	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I do not believe, Annika Qarlsson, that there is any quick fix. I do not think that there is a quick fix for people who are far from the labour market and who need quite a lot of effort to get into the labour market. You have to face each individual differently. There are very different types of paths that are needed for different individuals. When I look at the proposals of the bourgeois parties, it seems to me that you also realise that there are several different ways that together can solve the problem, but there is no quick fix. Nevertheless, I would like to point out, again, that this is an issue of education. It is remarkable that almost no short-educated, newly arrived in Sweden, goes on to regular education. It's close to zero. This is remarkably low. There should be an opportunity to train, not least young people under the age of 30, who have a short education, so that they can be equipped to take jobs in areas where we have major shortcomings. This will not be the solution for everyone, but it is one thing that we must be able to improve. I think starting wages are one thing to discuss, but it is one thing for the social partners to discuss. That's the big difference. I've been in politics for a long time. I have been there when the parliament and government have tried to control wage formation. To be honest, Mr President, it has gone completely wrong. In other words, this is not something I recommend, but let us leave it to the parties. It is possible that they make some mistakes, but they certainly make fewer mistakes than we would if we were to take over responsibility. When it comes to matching positions, we had a proposal that was out for a referral and met with quite extensive criticism in the consultation round. Of course, you have to listen to that criticism. Perhaps we need to make adjustments to the proposals before they become a reality. That's why you have consultation sessions – to listen to the criticism. Such a process is underway.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1307	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for being here and participating in the debate. I think that's good. There has been a discussion here. Some of those behind the budget think it was night black before and that it is bright now. Then you have to remember that it is only in one year that the government has ruled with its own budget. So there was a great deal in the old which was still very positive and which strengthened Sweden's economy so that today it is one of the strongest in Europe. This was because we had a focus on the job line and on breaking the exclusion. In this connection, the Left Party, above all, and the Social Democrats usually take up all these tax cuts. But many of these tax cuts went to RUT and ROT, not to lower taxes for high wage earners. This was done in particular to reduce taxes on low-income earners and to create new jobs. Many unemployed came into RUT and ROT. I hope that the government continues to listen to what we say about job creation. I miss a discussion about companies. They're the ones who're gonna hire and increase the bnp. There is talk of all the services to be created in the public sector. But where is the talk of companies? What will make companies want to hire all those who are currently unemployed?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1312	Mr President, I would like to The big problem with the major tax cuts carried out by the old government was that we went from a situation of 70 billion plus to 60 billion minus. It is not sustainable to have large deficits in public finances. You have to have a policy that can handle unexpected challenges, because unexpected challenges always come. You know that both in the old government and in us. You have to be equipped for it, and therefore it is not possible to conduct a policy where plus and minus do not make sense. Tax cuts are always nice, but they are to be financed in order to be able to carry on. Mrs Pethrus raises the important issue of companies. It is companies and public employers who are hiring, so their demand is absolutely crucial. I began by saying that in terms of demand there is hardly any problem. It's a huge demand. There are a lot of people who want to hire, and both public and private employers make huge investments. They obviously want to employ not only now, but also then, and that is why they are investing heavily. I often meet employers, and the overriding problem for them is the lack of skills, i.e. the difficulty of finding staff with the right skills. It's definitely their biggest headache. That is why the government is investing heavily in education, and that is why I am concerned that no more people are taking part in education. We should invest even more in getting people away from the labour market into vocational training that can lead to employment. We need to reform labour market education, and we are doing so. We hold talks with the social partners and look at skills supply strategies by industry with employers and professionals. Here they really are calling for help, and it is clear that we need to do more to meet their needs.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1318	Mr President, I would like to The problem when the government discusses these issues is that it is willing to spend any amount of money on labour market measures. It's about 11 billion. But there is very little talk about what to do to make companies want to hire. Then we'll come to introductory positions. Much of the new arrivals have a low level of education. Some will be able to be trained, but Arbetsförmedlingen itself says that some of them will not be able to assimilate education. Then you have to think about whether you can create new jobs. Through the RUT and ROT deductions, we opened up a whole new labour market that was a little easier to enter and where there was no need for high education. We imagine that there may be several employers who want what is similar to extra services but who want to hire themselves. The employment agency and the state do not have to go in and control everything, but let us make it easier. Can we not jointly find ways for employers and employees to find each other themselves in the match without a lot of labour market policy measures? We are investing in professional adult education in order to get more simple services, which can actually be a good entry point into working life. I think we need to have a completely different type of employment service and completely different forms of employment than we do today. We need other forms of employment, not just labour market measures. What does the government say about that?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1325	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that we should invest in labour market policy at all, on the contrary. I believe that the other elements are more important, although labour market policy is also needed. I said at the turn of the line with Elisabeth Svantesson, and I have said it in I do not know how many interpellation debates, that I see no intrinsic value in people being in labour market policy measures. I think they are needed, but one should never think that this is the solution to unemployment or to the demand for labour. It's just like Patrik Björck said so exemplary earlier. If you're going to be able to hire more people at the hamburger restaurant, more people have to buy hamburgers. That's the simple logic. There must be demand in the economy. Now we have a demand in the economy. When I listen to employers, it is not primarily new rules they are asking for, but greater freedom to use the rules in other ways. One example is that employers can take over the responsibility to train new arrivals in Sweden if they find it difficult to get it together with the sfi training scheduling. This is a very interesting proposal, which Anna Ekström and I are looking at together. Can we find more flexibility rather than new rules? Maybe we have too many rules. Désirée Pethrus calls for a system in which workers and employers can find each other and create ways into the labour market. Here we are in complete agreement, and the best thing is that we have such a system. It is called the Swedish model and means that employers and employees jointly solve the vast majority of labour market challenges without the involvement of politicians. Sometimes they ask us for help, and then we listen, of course, and see if we can contribute. But in essence it is a very well-functioning model.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1330	Mr President, I would like to During the years in which the Alliance ruled, we carried out a substantial reduction in employers' contributions for young people. According to the Institute for Labour and Education Policy Evaluation, it provided between 10 000 and 15 000 jobs. This criticised Ylva Johansson most strongly, and you removed the reduction. To compensate for this, you would instead offer trainee jobs. It was a large number and one of the most important electoral issues. It was on your posters, in your ads, on your flyers and in your election manifesto, and that's what you said in the streets and squares and in TV studios and more. You promised 32,000 trainee jobs. The idea of these jobs is to combine traineeships with education to combat youth unemployment. That was your answer to our reduced social security contributions for young people. Last report on how many trainee jobs there have been in September. There were 125 of them. This was when Jan Björklund stood in the TV studio and calculated that a snail could walk around the world and also stay on a coffee break for 50 years in Ulan Bator in Mongolia and still finish faster. But according to one newspaper, he miscalculated for 100 years. So it would take even longer for trainee jobs to get done. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is Ylva Johansson satisfied with this? That's 0.39% goal fulfillment on the trainee jobs. Is it the Swedish model?
i-3332cf619e423afa-1335	Mr President, I would like to The question was asked to the Prime Minister, but I take the liberty of answering it. It's late, Fredrik. Youth unemployment was disastrously high under the previous government, although around 20 billion a year was spent on the almost scandalously ineffective reduction in employers' contributions. Our promise is to cope with youth unemployment. Our promise is ambitious. No young person should go more than 90 days without work, training or action leading to work or studies. I intend to do this. We thought that many more labour market policy measures would be needed to achieve this because youth unemployment was so high. However, through other efforts that we are making and through the demand for labour for companies, youth unemployment has fallen rapidly. This is not mainly due to labour market policy but to economic policy and there is a demand to employ without subsidies and without it going through the Public Employment Service. That's excellent. I see no reason whatsoever for having as many people as possible in labour market policy measures. It is not a failure for me if it takes fewer trainee jobs to cope with youth unemployment if people get jobs anyway. We will make our promise. I'll be able to deliver. No young person should be unemployed for more than 90 days before receiving work, training or work-related activities. We're still not quite there. There are some missing, but soon we'll be there. We're gonna make it. If we do it with fewer trainee jobs, that's not a problem for me.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1341	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit difficult to see which is most scandalously ineffective: a reduction in employers' contributions for young people, which provides between 10 000 and 15 000 new jobs, or 32 000 promised trainee jobs which then become 125. What Ylva Johansson promised and believes he was given a mandate for was to deliver 32,000 trainee jobs. The Government made this statement on the Social Democrats' website a year ago: Trainee jobs will also be able to contribute to an orderly supply of skills in sectors where more and more people retire. The reform has been designed to be accessible throughout the labour market to professions where there is a shortage requiring vocational training at upper secondary level. ..................................................... That was a year ago. Then it would have been 1 trainee job. Now it's 125. Ylva Johansson stood on the streets and squares, month in and month out, promising 32 000 trainee jobs. The question is: Is the Government satisfied with this? Please explain your best arguments, Ylva Johansson! It would be interesting to know what the best arguments for trainee jobs are.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1344	Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely satisfied with youth unemployment, because there are still young people who are unemployed. But I am very pleased that the development is moving strongly in the right direction. Of course, it is not correct that we have promised 32 000 trainee jobs. It is correct that we have promised to solve youth unemployment. If this can be done without using labour market policy measures, it is of course excellent. If people get jobs and education anyway, we don't have to use taxpayers' money-- I don't see a problem with that. Just admit that we didn't need very many trainee jobs to get to youth unemployment, because many young people have got other jobs. However, the need for an orderly change of generation remains in the labour market and, as I said at the outset, we have not met this requirement. We still have major challenges with regard to shortage professions, which are almost all professions. There are major shortcomings, especially where upper secondary vocational training is required. It is quite obvious that we need to do more. It is therefore appropriate to redirect trainee jobs to other groups – those who are unemployed now and who need training to get into work, such as new arrivals. As for the group of young people, there are certainly young people who also benefit from a trainee job, but the volumes are obviously quite different there. Most people get jobs differently.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1349	Mr President, I would like to Fun points have not been missed in this debate. Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson had one about the Swedish model. It is there that the Minister for Labour is absolutely truthful. She is one of the people in this room who can really say that she has saved the Swedish model, then as a member of the Communists. Produced by Communist Youth, she stopped at the only time when the Swedish model was seriously threatened. It was when the Social Democrats came up with the proposal to interfere and legislate on wage formation. Absolutely – the Minister for Labour has been in the past and has actually done what she says in this context. Otherwise, there is reason to agree with what Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström started this debate with – that it has been a quiet year in the Labour Market Committee, very calm. For various reasons, I have some committees to compare with, and so little to do as I had in this committee I have had nowhere else. It is simply because the government does not come up with any policy. Therefore, the debate has perhaps been filled more with oneliners and speech points than with political contradictions and discussions on how Sweden should stand strong and the labour market develops. The Moderates and the Alliance have a number of such proposals, and I am in favour of reservation 1 and alliance reservation 12. I was going to devote some of my speaking time to reservation 12. It is about people who are spoken of far too little in Sweden today. Mr President, I would like to It's coming for Christmas. In many Swedish homes one can really take on expectations. Perhaps packages are already under the tree, and the children are excited. But in many homes, despair and perhaps a great wait for the last wage mean that you can buy some presents at all. Christmas is an opportunity when it becomes obvious and clear why it must always pay off to work and why politics must always put work first. It means most for people's well-being to have their own job and livelihood. For many of us now await times of great fellowship. For others, times of loss and loneliness await. Part of this is the Alliance's reservation 12 about, namely Sweden's elderly and pensioners, which unfortunately is now very little talked about. The reservation is about how to get healthier, feel better and make your economy work better, but also about how our society can function better and how to get more stable public finances and more resilience in our common society by enabling the elderly to stay longer in the workforce. It is unfortunate that the current government removes the driving forces and strengthened opportunities for older people to remain in work. It means a lot, not only for public finances but also for self-esteem, for the opportunity to strengthen their economy, for health and for the opportunity to have some extra good years in life. That is a very unfortunate priority. I am therefore pleased that the Alliance is making its priority in order to strengthen older people's opportunities for increased employment. I have a lot of things and I have it very tight, as we Members of Parliament have, Mr President, so I do not wish for a Christmas present. But if I could wish one of the ministers and the government, it would be to restore the importance of work and the line of work, because that is the way to health and a good society for all people. I therefore once again support our reservation 12 and wish everyone present and viewers a Merry Christmas.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1360	Mr President, I would like to I will not prolong the debate too much, but I would like to say a brief word about the efforts of the Swedish democrats in the field of health and safety at work. We share the government's ambitions there. In the area of health and safety at work, the Swedish Democrats continue to show a high level of ambition, and here we stress the important work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We want to make a special effort on the training of more safety representatives and on training measures against bullying in our workplaces, which is unfortunately a scenario that is increasing today. In order to deal with work-related problems and to encourage healthy health care, the Swedish Democrats propose a new grant of SEK 100 million in a special investment in companies' health care and occupational health care. We are putting an additional SEK 75 million in funding, which we want to invest in a national knowledge centre for health and safety at work in order to be able to deal with various health and safety issues and their effects on society through research. This is something that is sought from trade unions but also from several heavy players in the Swedish industry. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to continue to encourage work with SAM, systematic work environment management, through a number of important positions. We want to show the companies what is required, through the Swedish Work Environment Authority, with clear and clear information, and that in consultation with Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, we also choose to implement the public sector in the introduction of SAM. Many municipalities and county councils ignore this. We will also follow the work on the common strategy on health and safety at work that the EU is now developing. We believe that a common strategy may impair the conditions of the Swedish labour market. Both trade union organisations within Sweden and the European Union view parts of the proposal negatively. In Sweden we have good legislation regarding the working environment, and for us it is obvious that it is national rules that should apply first and foremost. We believe that Sweden is a long way ahead on these issues. I would like to conclude by thanking the government for finally bringing up the lex Laval battle. This was one of the issues that led me to engage in politics once upon a time. I was at the time active as a shop steward in Building. But for some reasons I was allowed to leave this mission when I became too active in a party that was not accepted. I hope that we can come up with a common solution with regard to lex Laval.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1369	Mr President, I would like to We are getting healthier and living longer and longer in Sweden. That's very good. However, we have not changed the retirement age in many years, and young people start working later. It creates a number of challenges for society when it comes to how we will cope with our common welfare in the future. At the same time, we have a situation in the Swedish labour market where more and more jobs are automated, which leads to the disappearance of jobs while new jobs are created. It is an important challenge to take on board. It requires substantial reforms to meet this challenge. It is important to have a longer working life, and I therefore support the Alliance's reservation 12. But not only do people have to work longer, but it also requires opportunities for people to dare to change jobs and workplaces in the middle of life. Reforms are needed, and we must ensure that workers are able to meet the labour market and the companies that want to employ. They have to find each other a better way. It is a prerequisite for reducing unemployment and for people to get a job, but also for companies to be able to meet the demand for their products and services. The lack of links between those looking for a job and those who need to employ is one of the biggest problems we have in Sweden today. The most important point in terms of labour market matching, which is one of Sweden's biggest growth barriers, is Arbetsförmedlingen. I was gonna say a little bit about that. The number of companies that choose to hire the Public Employment Service to recruit is steadily decreasing. Half of the companies that have tried to recruit through the Employment Service say that it has worked badly. Few of the small companies that are job creation in Sweden use Arbetsförmedlingen, and public confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen is very low. It is basically the fault of politics. There we need substantial reforms. It is therefore unfortunate that one of the government's first measures was not to allow the investigation that investigated Arbetsförmedlingen to continue its work. The Center Party wants to distinguish between the government mission and the matching mission and instead introduce a job fixarpeng. It is based on the job seeker getting a money and can choose to go to the agency that you think can get a job in the best way. It may be a private company, a non-profit organisation or a municipal activity carrying out this task. The point of a job fixarpeng is also that the job seeker is driven to fix jobs. In our model, we want to see a three-step job fixarpeng. The first money comes from enrollment at Arbetsförmedlingen or from the person who is going to provide jobs. The other money comes when you get a job. And the third and largest money comes when you have come to a permanent job. This job-fixing allowance should be based on the needs of the labour market. The money will also vary depending on whether you are close to or far from the labour market. This is a system that has been very successful in Australia, and the Center Party is pushing for this to be a reform that is being implemented in Sweden as well. This is extremely important. One of the biggest growth barriers we have in Sweden today is the poor matching of the labour market, and then we need to reform Arbetsförmedlingen. Mr President, I would like to In order for people to have the courage to change jobs in the middle of life, more reforms are also needed. The Center Party wants it to be a renewal of the Swedish model. Today, we have a labour market that is characterised quite clearly by the division between city and country, and between people who are well placed in the labour market and people who are less well placed in the labour market. We also have a very clear two-way labour market with regard to the people who have stable and secure employment and the people who are outside. For the outsiders, temporary and precarious employment is usually available. The strict employment protection that we currently have in Sweden is a contributing factor to the difficulties for those groups that are excluded from being able to establish themselves in the labour market. At the same time, it creates lock-in effects for people who are actually in the labour market. There are studies that show that every fourth person on the Swedish labour market today is unhappy. We need to ensure that labour market mobility is increased. The Center Party has therefore proposed that an independent and impartial commission be set up to develop the Swedish model and ensure that we have a more mobile labour market and also meet tomorrow's challenges. I hope that this is something that representatives of the government parties can also see as a good idea. The aim of such an independent Commission is to take account of the needs of companies for flexibility and skills provision, but also to take into account the needs and wishes of employees for security and the possibility of transition in the middle of life. In this way you can meet the people who are now far from the labour market and ensure that they actually get a chance on the labour market. It is extremely important for us to be able to meet the challenges of the future, such as automation, which means that the number of jobs is constantly decreasing, and that we need to constantly develop and find new ways to educate ourselves throughout our lives.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1382	Mr President, I would like to In this budget, the Government proposes, among other things, that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's administrative grant be increased by SEK 25 million per year from 2017. The aim is for the Agency to be able to employ more health and safety inspectors in order to carry out more inspections around the country. But the government's policy in the field of health and safety at work is also about preventing ill health, accidents and unhealthy competition. To achieve these goals, the Government has presented a strategy on health and safety at work based on these elements. It is about modern working life being able to work for people in the future, so that they do not get burned out, for example. It's about a zero vision of fatal accidents. It's incredibly important. But it is also about a substantial strengthening of the work environment on a broad front with over SEK 100 million per year during this term of office and which will remain stable in the future. The Swedish model, which has been mentioned here today, is based on the parties working together. This is why the government has established a dialogue forum for health and safety at work, where the parties meet together with the government and solve the future issues that exist. The government is also looking at the possibility of creating a national centre for health and safety at work. This is an incredibly important issue. Especially since the closure of the Work Life Institute during the period of the bourgeois government, research and health and safety at work need to be re-coordinated at the central level. The government also invests quite a lot of money in research on health and safety at work. These are questions and initiatives that I am proud of. The government's work means many positive steps in the right direction. What I am not happy with, however, is that I do not really know how the Swedish Democrats will vote here in Parliament when it comes to these very issues. I do not know how they will vote tomorrow, in a few weeks' time or, for that matter, next year or the following year. I have given some thought to this and I think it is important for us in this House to know where the Swedish Democrats will be asking themselves about these issues in labour market policy. I have therefore made a small Christmas calendar like this at Christmas time – the opening of labour market policy – to clarify what I was going to talk about here. Behind door one, it says 1988. Let's go back a bit in time. Then I was seven years old and was about to turn eight. You can check what the Swedish Democrats thought about labour market policy at the time. The Swedish Democrats were founded in February this year. At the time they were very positive about the Swedish model. They wrote in their party program that Sweden has a long tradition of trade unions and that trade unions play a very important role in society. One can say that they are generally positive. Behind hatch two is hiding in 1994. So we are going a few years forward, and we are looking again at what it says about labour market policy in the party programme. It says that Sweden has a long tradition of trade unions and that the trade unions play a very important role in society. We recognize the wording from six years earlier. It is therefore a generally positive attitude towards the Swedish model and recognition of the important role of the trade union movement in the labour market. We go to gap three and in 1999. I was going to go to high school myself, so some things had happened. The years pass, and the Swedish Democrats would be eleven. Here it is very exciting, because suddenly they want to abolish the Swedish model completely. They want to replace it with a new type of solution called the national mediating authority. The social partners should therefore no longer play a role in the labour market. I quote from the party programme: A national mediating authority should be established with the task of assessing the annual salary space and adjusting a national wage index on this basis. The National Mediator Authority shall have the right to participate in all collective wage negotiations and on the basis of the National Wage Index to promote sound wage agreements. All individual wage agreements shall be related to the national wage index. ..................................................... So it is a new type of labour market model that I would say is not quite like the Swedish model. To be completely honest, the wing strokes of history from the 1930s feel quite clear. If I am not mistaken, the second Vice-President of the Riksdag was in place on the party board in 1999, so it is still not very long since this was in the party programme of the Swedish Democrats. We move fast on to hatch number four and year 2007. I was a little older myself, that's all. What does that say? Yes, then you have changed your mind; then it is no longer the national mediating authority that applies, but the Swedish democrats have completely changed foot again. They want to abolish the MBL, and they want more exemptions in the LAS. They want to ban trade union action, and there should be no more money for work environment. It will be cheaper to resign for personal reasons, and the union's power in society will be reduced. It is very anti-union and against the Swedish model. Then you change foot again in 2010, which is hatch number five. How did you change your mind? We have talked about this earlier here in Parliament, and I think it is important that we hear about this again. In 2010, the goal is suddenly to defend the nation's collective interests. The nation is the important thing for the Swedish Democrats. There is a lack of ideological ties and protection of special interests in this area, which means that the political orientation of the party may change depending on the underlying conditions, political changes and economic conditions. So it is some kind of teflon policy, quite simply. It's quite exciting, because it really changed race over the years. We then have the sixth hatch – in 2015. Then it's the white-job model that applies. You leave a motion to Parliament about white jobs and that you want to introduce the so-called white-job model. There must be a number of requirements, among other things, for bidding companies; for example, companies must offer their employees collective agreements, i.e. collective agreements. They have somehow come back to the Swedish model again. Then we have 2016, which is the penultimate window in the calendar. I also have a copy of the calendar that the two Swedish democrats present in this House can get. Two weeks ago, a proposal was made in the Riksdag on requirements for procurement, and then we would be talking about collective agreements. The proposal meant that wage, holiday and working time requirements would be set in line with collective agreements. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and Magnus Persson, Swedish democrats who sit on the Labour Market Committee, voted against this. It simply voted against these demands being made. It is on the electoral roll, which I actually have with me. I find this very interesting, and what I really ask myself is what is behind the last gap – in 2017. Yes, there's a question mark. What's going on in 2017? I will finish my speech, but I wanted to take some extra time to do so. I think it is important because it is really this that will determine Sweden's future in one year's time, when we are once again debating labour market policy in this House and will ask ourselves how the Swedish Democrats stand. I would like to conclude my speech by asking the Swedish Democrats a few questions, because, as I said, it determines in many ways the future of the country how the party will vote in this House. The first questions I ask Magnus Persson. I think one might wonder if Magnus Persson is ashamed of the work he did as a safety representative. Was it shameful? Does Magnus Persson think it was a waste of time, now that he has new, good friends in business? Is that why Magnus Persson is now against his old colleagues getting better protection in the workplace and voting against it in the Riksdag? The other questions I ask Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. I wonder what I'm supposed to believe in. How can I know what the Swedish Democrats are voting for tomorrow or next year? 2017 is approaching, and what will the Swedish democrats think about the labour market? Mr President, I would like to These are important issues. Magnus Persson's old colleagues and the rest of the Swedish people deserve an answer.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1405	Mr President, I would like to It has been a rather good debate, and these are important issues that have been discussed here today. I was going to focus a little bit on youth unemployment, which is an important issue. Although we have reached the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, I would nevertheless say that there are many young people out there who are unemployed, including young newcomers. It is important that young people who have been excluded from the labour market for a long time be given access to it, and this is particularly important when labour demand is high and young people are needed in the labour market. As we have discussed before, it is also a question of coping with the generational change we face. I do not think that a young person should have to start his adult life in long-term unemployment. I don't think a young person should be outside the labour market. That is why it is important and good that this is still a high priority for the government. On the basis of this, the 90-day guarantee for unemployed young people, which has been discussed in the past, was introduced. It means that no young person should have to wait more than 90 days to be offered a job, an education or other type of action. As part of this work, in 2014 the Government appointed the Delegation for Youth to work, for a greater impact on labour market policy efforts against youth unemployment at local level. I have the privilege of sitting in the political reference group together with two colleagues who are here today, Marco Venega from the Green Party and Fredrik Christensson from the Center Party. Mr President, I would like to What we can note so far is that 287 of Sweden's municipalities have entered into agreements with Arbetsförmedlingen on how they intend to work together to reduce youth unemployment. The agreements include, among other things, a survey of the target group, i.e. young people aged 16 to 24 who are neither working nor studying nor underemployed. This will be reviewed annually by municipalities and the Employment Service jointly. In addition to Arbetsförmedlingen and municipalities, more actors can be included in the agreements, and this can also include several municipalities. We believe that cooperation between municipalities and the Public Employment Service is important in order to reduce youth unemployment. New and more flexible forms of cooperation are needed to solve this task, and the role of the delegation is to promote this collaboration. I think it is important to address this because the work of the delegation has not been mentioned so far in the debate. I would also like to add that 30 to 35% of every year's year-olds do not complete their upper secondary school studies. At the same time, we know that those who find it most difficult to establish themselves on the labour market are those who lack upper secondary education. Young people with disabilities and young people born abroad are also among the most difficult to find a job. To reduce youth unemployment, young people need to be able to complete their studies and more young people need to be given the right skills to take on the job vacancies. Therefore, it is important that there is a collaboration between municipalities and Arbetsförmedlingen. The municipalities are key players in reducing youth unemployment. In 2016, Dua held dialogue meetings with municipalities and employment services around the country. The aim was, among other things, to provide support for the cooperation work of municipalities and employment services and to deepen knowledge about the target group of newly arrived young people. Mr President, I would like to In order for us to get more young people to become Employable and create meaningful jobs, the collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities needs to be strengthened. Finally, Sweden's young people deserve to face a future filled with hope, work and opportunities, not unemployment and closed doors. That is why I support the proposal in the report. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members of the committee and everyone else in this House. I wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-3332cf619e423afa-1416	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say something about the situation in the labour market for the disabled. A group that has increased in relation to complaints to the Discrimination Ombudsman is disabled. I told you about that yesterday. They feel that their labour market is not being exploited. They feel that employers turn them down because they have a disability. In the budget, the government has highlighted labour-integrated social enterprises. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to cooperate with the Swedish Public Employment Service, within the framework of EU state aid rules, to develop and implement programmes with efforts to ensure that more social enterprises start up. We know that social enterprises are a major entry point for many people with disabilities. People with disabilities are needed in the labour market and should be able to participate in society and working life according to their conditions. For me, for the government and for our party, it is important that these people's skills are taken into account. That is why money in the budget has also been allocated a great deal. I am a little surprised that the opposition in this debate, which has been going on for quite some time now, does not say anything about why they are cutting back on this appropriation. The Moderates are down by 1 billion, the Center Party is down 820 million and the Liberals are down 834 million – on wage subsidies and Samhall. This money is important. People with disabilities need to enter the labour market if they are to be able to find employment. The fact that the three parties do not even want to mention the fairly large savings they make in this area is strange. The disabled, those in need of wage subsidy contracts and the contribution made by Samhall are thus neglected. I'm surprised. I would like to support the proposals in both reports and reject the reservations.
