i-93c644e6330edb5c-0	Mr President, I would like to Panama Papers is the latest in the series of revelations of how the world's economic and political elite engaged in tax evasion and aggressive tax planning and hiding assets in tax havens. The disclosure can be added to the list of Swissleaks and Luxleaks and does not come as a direct surprise to many of us. On the other hand, it is shocking in its scale, not least in view of the fact that it is the tip of an iceberg. There are many more who do what Mossack Fonseca does, and there are many more, both super-rich and big companies, even in Sweden, who are more than happy, with the help of consultants and advisors, using these services to plunder our society on resources. Not least embarrassing for Sweden is that Nordea and now SEB have been among the most active banks in the world when it came to helping customers set up letterbox companies via Mossack Fonseca and it was reported yesterday that all four major Swedish banks are part of the US Financial Supervisory Authority's investigation. Tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is not a new phenomenon, but it is clear that it has taken effect. At global level, it is at least SEK 1,200 billion in lost tax revenue each year. For the Swedish part, it is about over SEK 46 billion in lost tax revenue each year. The Swedish model is under pressure. Swedish welfare has enormous needs. In the wake of the crisis, a neoliberal austerity policy has hit the world and hit the poorest countries hardest. Every hidden crown in a tax haven is a theft from our common future. Now, efforts are needed to stop international tax evasion and, not least, the actions of Swedish banks. The time for moral condemnation is over. Let us therefore ensure that this debate means that we present proposals that lead to increased control and stringent legislation against tax evasion and evasion.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-5	Mr President, I would like to It is an urgent subject that we are debating today, and it is for a number of reasons. Firstly, it is about our common welfare. That welfare is important and perhaps even something that defines our whole model of society is something that has broad support among the Swedish people. This approach does not only exist in Sweden. The Swedish model has become a role model around the world. A key aspect of the Swedish model of welfare is that it comes to everyone as needed and not according to their ability to pay. On the other hand, it is to be financed by everyone according to their abilities. The Swedish model is based on work, or, to be more precise, on paying taxes on your income. Welfare needs to be financed, and there are no shortcuts here. Therefore, tax evasion is a direct threat to welfare and to the Swedish model. Secondly, it is bad for the whole economy. The basis of the market economy is free competition. If some companies do not do the right thing, then market forces and therefore the market economy will be destroyed. Then it is no longer the product that is best to sell the most or the company that has the smartest production method that is moving forward. Instead, it will be those who have the least scruples or the cunningest tax scheme that makes its way into the economy. One can ask any serious haulage company, restaurant company or construction company what happens when some competitors fs kar. When it's not the best that wins, the market doesn't work as it should, and it damages growth and job growth. Therefore, industry itself and its organisations should be at the forefront of combating not only tax evasion but also aggressive tax planning. Then it damages the market economy in a different way. Throughout society, we spend a lot of money as well as working time, creativity and innovation not on making up new products and solving societal challenges but on avoiding paying taxes. It does not create any added value in the economy. It doesn't solve what we need to solve together. To engage in tax planning and tax evasion is money in the lake, or rather in a channel. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, the government has chosen to prioritise the issue of tax evasion and active tax planning and tax evasion. It is both about things that we decide on ourselves in Sweden and about international cooperation. Yesterday, the government presented a ten-point programme. Firstly, Sweden will work towards more countries joining global standards for information exchange. Today, Sweden has information exchange agreements with 45 countries. 133 countries are involved in the automatic global exchange of information. Here all the countries of the world should be involved. Sweden will be active in this work. Secondly, we shall have an automatic exchange of information on who are the real owners of companies. This is central to meeting the use of goalkeepers and letterbox companies. Thirdly, the Government wants to introduce an information obligation for tax advisors so that they have to inform the Tax Agency about the arrangements they sell to their customers. We're going to have an investigation to review the possibility of this. Fourthly, we want to see a black list of countries and territories that are not cooperating. First we should have a blacklist at European level; then we should move on at global level. We will be actively promoting countermeasures against those on the blacklist. Fifthly, action against VAT fraud should be more effective. Sweden will have a review of the VAT law, and we will work together within the EU to limit VAT fraud. Sixthly, cheating should be more expensive. We want to strengthen the deterrent effect of the tax surcharge. Seventhly, resources for the Swedish Tax Agency to combat tax evasion will be strengthened. The Swedish Tax Agency should be able to use all the new tools you now have in your toolbox in an efficient way. Eight: tax issues should be raised at the level of the government of companies, at the very highest level of management. The government does not control this, but it is an urgent objective that fewer in the pipelines should be able to say that they did not know or choose to look in another direction. The Government will entrust the Swedish Tax Agency with this matter. We ourselves will also invite the business community to talk about this. For the ninth, Sweden will provide increased support to the capacity of tax authorities in developing countries. We have a problem with tax evasion and tax evasion in Sweden and the West, but the problem is even bigger in developing countries. Here they need support to build up their tax authorities. Tenthly, last but not least, we are going to sweep in front of our own door. We're going to fight tax evasion and undeclared work at home. Human resources are to be introduced in more sectors. Cash registers are also introduced for foreign traders and a monthly reporting obligation at individual level is to be introduced. This will have an effect, but of course we will not be satisfied with this. Whether tax evasion is carried out in a local restaurant or provided as a service in a bank or an audit firm, it will be combated with full force. The Swedish model is based on doing the right thing.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-23	Mr President, I would like to Everyone who lives and operates in Sweden should also be prepared to pay tax here. This is the obvious starting point for the Moderates and the reason why the Alliance government spent a lot of time and energy on signing and updating tax and information exchange agreements, as well as on the national work to establish cash registers for cash payments, human resources for certain industries and RUT and ROT deductions. The Alliance also took steps to put an end to the holes in the tax system created by the Social Democratic government before 2006. A good example of this is the so-called interest rate spin. The Alliance's work led to both a significant increase in net inflow of capital from different countries and more than 3 billion in tax revenues, but also to a dramatic increase in the acceptance of our tax system among the Swedish people. It was long-term work. It is a good thing that the government continues in part on the same track. But more needs to be done. There is no ideological conflict in Sweden on issues of tax evasion and tax evasion. We agree across the board that welfare is publicly funded, and so the tax bases need to be secured. The political conflict is on another level. We in the Alliance are focusing on order and order in the economy and that every tax chandelier should do the best possible benefit. It is a direct consequence of our wanting to keep taxes down for a more competitive Sweden but at the same time want it to deliver good quality welfare to the inhabitants. The three left parties do not make the same priority. International efforts to combat tax evasion and tax evasion took off in the context of the 2008 financial crisis. Above all, it concerns the so-called BEPS project, but also a large number of automatic information exchange agreements. BEPS stands for tax base upgrading and profit shifting. This was achieved by the fact that the world's 20 largest economies, namely the G20 countries, commissioned the OECD to develop a package of action plans to ensure that multinationals pay the right tax in the right country. Work has been very rapid and has resulted in measures such as minimum standards and recommendations. Sweden has successfully participated actively in the working groups. This has been important because Sweden is a small and open economy, dependent on exports. And we can be absolutely sure that the world's largest economies are not primarily looking to ensure that we get the tax revenues that we in Sweden believe should be allocated to us. To some extent, one can legislate nationally against tax evasion. But for the best efficiency, work must be done internationally within the framework of the OECD and coordinated within the EU. Now we are faced with the European Commission coordinating implementation for the Member States. This is where you can say there have been problems. These are partly caused by the very background: that it is the big economies that are behind it, that it has gone fast and that there are no impact assessments of what the various measures will mean. But above all, it is that BEPS now seems to be being dealt with as a base which, since the European Commission, but also the United States and other countries, are building on, each in its own way, when we are about to introduce. It is unfortunate and should be something that Sweden devotes its influence to stopping. In the case of the EU, it is a question of the European Commission pushing forward proposals that go far beyond what a larger group of countries has already agreed. It risks hindering or restricting urgent international cooperation against tax evasion and evasion. In addition, it risks seriously impairing the competitiveness of the EU. So we have a lot to lose both as a nation of Sweden and as an EU member of Sweden. Taxation law is a national matter, not an EU issue. We believe that it should continue to be decided on taxes in Sweden and have therefore taken the initiative to persuade the government to stop the proposal from the European Commission. We believe that we should be in line with the OECD and try to get the EU countries to move as fast as possible with each other, but of course also with the world's largest economies, such as the US and Japan. As far as the Minister for Finance's press conference was concerned yesterday, there was little new evidence. Five of the ten points are not Sweden which, as it were, controls and owns. The point about the Swedish Tax Agency's resources is a purely budgetary issue. The one on additional measures relating to human resources, cash registers and monthly data is old cabinet food, which was also largely run by the Alliance. The point that surprised me was that of investigating the tax surcharge. There, since the turn of the year, we have a completely new legislation and, moreover, a legislation based on the fact that the situation before that was untenable. Sweden was considered to be in breach of the ECHR by the fact that it was possible to be punished twice for the same offence. The new law was not self-evident. There was a lot of criticism, including from the prosecution. But the situation was untenable, and the questions had been investigated for a long time. That is why it was particularly stressed that developments need to be closely monitored and that we need to be prepared to revise the legislation. It is therefore spectacular and unserious that this move by the government comes after just under four months.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-35	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are a social-conservative party with a nationalist basic view that regards value conservatism and the maintenance of a solidarity-based welfare model as the most important tools in the creation and maintenance of good society, with peaceful and democratic development, with work and welfare for every Swede. A solidarity-based welfare model presupposes that all those who can contribute also do so, including by paying their tax jointly and severally. The tax system must be designed in such a way that it is perceived as fair. While tax collection is a prerequisite for the construction of a welfare state, companies must also have the opportunity to hire and grow, precisely in order for more workers to participate. An unreasonably high tax burden provides incentives precisely for tax planning, and sometimes it may also tempt to commit tax offences. Once we have a reasonable and fair tax system, tax offences must of course be combated. The Swedish democrats have always stood for improved law enforcement in all areas, and the tax area is no exception. Among the measures proposed or supported by the Swedish Democrats are, for example, increased tax controls and increased funds for the Swedish Tax Agency. We have been doing this both this year and throughout the last parliamentary term. And I would like to recall that the Swedish Democrats have allocated the greatest resources to the Tax Agency for tax controls. We have always supported the extension of information exchange agreements. It may not be so much to boast about, for in principle all parties have done so. Automatic exchange of information is even better. It is gratifying that the Minister for Finance was able to announce that Sweden is pushing ahead there. However, as in all other areas, it requires that it does not stop at words but actually becomes reality. Something that I felt I missed in yesterday's press conference with the Minister for Finance was precisely the updated tax agreements. Since the 1990s, Sweden has fallen behind in the case of updated tax treaties. Contrary to what the previous moderate speaker said, it has not been driven very well either by the bourgeois government, but has been neglected by both Social Democratic and bourgeois governments since the late 1990s. Both the Swedish National Audit Office and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have stated this in their report from 2010, among other things. This is something that causes Swedish companies to become less competitive. It can also lead to the creation of loopholes. These agreements are designed, inter alia, to avoid double taxation and avoid zero taxation. This is, as I said, a problem that has been ignored. I would like a more positive response in this area too. As regards the behaviour of banks, which is also part of the reason for today's debate, it can be said that in the last third of the 20th century and to date, the financial sector has expanded very strongly. We have seen an increasing number of crises which, in various ways, in whole or in part, originate from the activities of the financial sector. The short-term profitability of risky financial instruments and the general trend to assess a company's profitability with ever shorter time horizons have created a climate for financial transactions that has developed in the wrong direction. This is one of the reasons why the type of activity revealed in connection with the so-called Panama leak has spread out into the world. This is not a Swedish problem, specifically, but a global problem. When banks and other financial institutions contribute to and actively push forward approaches that have the sole purpose of minimizing the tax on capital and return on capital, we have a problem that needs to be addressed in some way. Of course, the best thing would be for the financial sector itself to be a bit self-cleaning and to get rid of the very worst of this type of activity, but unfortunately it has shown that it is not able to cope with that task very well. The craving for quick clips at the expense of others has grown quite uninhibited for a long time. Generally speaking, the gain on a financial instrument, which is not directly linked to the value change of a real asset, is always matched by someone else's loss. Then we are on something similar to gambling. At the same time, it is also important that the financial system is able to maintain the basic functions so that payment systems work, that savings can be converted into investments and that risks are managed so that the stability of the system is maintained. We believe that the financial services regulatory framework needs to be tightened up to deal with the worst of the worst. However, this does not mean that we should build systems that make a healthy financial market impossible. An increased link to real assets in different contexts can be a way forward. A clearer liability for losses in financial institutions is another measure that would be a good component of further regulation. In fact, it is a question of creating a trade and tax morality that places demands on both financial market players and those who use financial arrangements to obtain tax advantages in a questionable way.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-48	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Left Party for initiating this special debate on tax evasion and the actions of Swedish banks. We are many who have been upset about what we have seen on TV, in newspapers and in Mission Audit a few weeks ago about the different arrangements that have been made. In some countries this has had even greater political consequences than it has so far had in Sweden, not least in Iceland, of course. It is outrageous, although it is also very good and positive that this is being achieved. The foundation for the welfare society to function with everything it means in terms of free or heavily subsidised education, health care, care, infrastructure, culture and much more is based on a tax system that has a strong legitimacy. Everyone must be involved in contributing to the common. There are different views in the parties at the level of tax collection and what the system should look like, and that should be the case. However, there is a broad not only acceptance but an expectation from the Swedish people of the necessity that we pay for things together through the tax and the tax system. Tax evasion must be curbed at all levels. Some are about advanced legal arrangements, while others are in a grey area and still other direct criminal offences. It is about everything from the individual who works black in the local community, which leads to loss of income at the local level, to the national level in Sweden and the international level, i.e. the EU and also globally. However, the consequences are similar and there are several reasons why it is important to curb tax evasion. Apart from the legitimacy of the welfare state, it is also a question of competition neutrality between domestic and multinational companies and of not losing tax revenue. It is also important to be able to have sanctions for those who do not comply with the rules. Sweden has entered into agreements on automatic exchange of information in the tax field with a number of the world's countries, which is very good. We need to continue working for more people to come to, and we are currently managing several agreements in the Tax Committee and at the Ministry of Finance. What information is shared and how it is done needs to be developed as rules and conditions constantly change. Human resources systems have been put in place in several sectors, and further progress has been made. The systems need to be designed so that there is as little administrative cost as possible for businesses, but it is an important and effective tool to prevent undeclared work. The digital economy offers great opportunities in a wide range of areas. It reduces barriers and boundaries, which in many ways is fantastically good. At the same time, it poses challenges, not least in the area of taxation. This places increased demands on us to cooperate and share information with each other. The work that the OECD has done, which is approved by the G20 countries and which the EU now wants to implement, is therefore a direction that the Green Party welcomes. It is also good that there are several parties doing so, although we also notice in the discussion that there is a scepticism from some other parties. An important question is also how much money is lost due to tax evasion. Of course, it is also difficult to accurately calculate, but the estimate that the European Commission has made says that it is EUR 50 billion in the EU countries taken together each year. It is a rather breathtaking sum corresponding in the order of half of Sweden's state budget. On a global level, the OECD estimates that the loss is somewhere between $100 billion and 240 billion. It is a great span, but it is of course difficult to make an exact estimate. It still shows how important it is that we work together to prevent this.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-57	Mr President, I would like to Let me say that the fight against tax evasion is not an ideological issue. It is, of course, totally unacceptable to tax evasion and very provocative with advanced tax planning that is far removed from how ordinary people reason. Tax evasion has consequences in many different ways, concretely in the form of lost resources and emotionally when the system is not equal for everyone. Tax fraud and tax evasion limit our country's ability to withdraw revenue and fully implement economic policies. Combating tax fraud and tax evasion requires action at national, EU and international level. We must be clear in this House that international cooperation is crucial for successful work against tax evasion. The fact that companies and individuals through banks have used systematic and illegal tax planning via letterbox companies in Panama must of course be taken very seriously. It is important that banks take social responsibility. It is reasonable to place higher demands on banks to counter illegal tax planning and tax evasion in different ways. Mr President, I would like to It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. When we talk about tax evasion and advanced tax planning, the target should be the individuals and companies that abuse the system. While we must be proactive in our work, we must also ensure that it is easy to do the right thing so that the regulatory burden does not become even heavier and affect the competitiveness of companies. For example, there is a balance between disclosure requirements and companies' right to business secrets. For a small export-dependent country like Sweden, international and global standards are extremely important so that companies know what to do. Too sprawling patchwork of tax legislation is ultimately at risk of dampening business growth and leading to tax errors. The Swedish Tax Agency's own analyses show that the tax error is decreasing, and it is important that this trend continues. Mr President, I would like to We are not going to act as a court in Parliament's chambers. Our task is to plug the roads for tax evasion. Irrespective of the criminal consequences of the investigations now being carried out, one thing is certain: the scandal is renewing the debate on tax legislation, investigative resources, scales of penalties and increased exchange of information between countries to close the gaps. Only the other day, we decided in this House on two further agreements on the exchange of information. It will be easier to get support to stick harder rules after the Panama leak. The Swedish Tax Agency has about 200 people working offensively with foreign controls. Tax authorities in different countries are now cooperating jointly under the auspices of the OECD on tax data contained in the leaked documents. Building on the EU system, Member States and the EU, by adopting a strong and coherent position in the G8, G20 and OECD, can contribute to the automatic exchange of information becoming a new global standard. Mr President, I would like to It is important to recall that over a number of years there has been considerable progress in the fight against tax evasion and advanced tax planning. Let me highlight a few examples. Both in Sweden and internationally, work against tax evasion has escalated over the last decade. Automatic exchange of information agreements on large-scale information exchange were signed on an ongoing basis under the previous alliance government. All in all, it could be said that country-by-country work on information exchange agreements took off. The OECD BEPS project, which started during the time of the Alliance in government, is now complete, and work on EU implementation is ongoing. Last summer, the EU published a list of so-called tax havens. The possibility of tax planning by means of so-called interest rate spinners has been severely limited, even with an alliance signature. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that we now have a good opportunity and a new breeding ground to take more big steps both in Sweden and internationally to combat tax evasion. A lot will happen in a short time.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-69	Mr President, I would like to It's been a turbulent month for the world's super rich. None of them can be sure if the next leak reveals their dirty business or not. Similarly, it has been a tough time for many multinationals. An increasing dissatisfaction in many countries means that it is no longer okay for companies like Starbucks, Ikea, McDonalds and Google to pay corporate taxes that are approaching zero through aggressive tax planning with tax havens. It shakes under the feet of the banks and audit firms when they are hit with their fingers deep in the jam jar to help their very richest customers and companies escape taxes. Yet it is a ripple on the surface compared to the popular anger that arises when many of us who live in Sweden put together one and one – when many of us realize that the widespread tax evasion, the use of letterbox companies in tax havens and the mystery of our political and economic elite are actually hitting us all. It's about all of us who are honest and pay our taxes and in return expect us to have a functioning health care, that the daughter will go to a good school or that dad will have room in the nursing home when he needs it. It is about us who are tired of those who plunder and enrich themselves. Everyone we're gonna get pissed off. Ådalen rose the other week – 25 000 people demonstrated to their hospital and a stop to the management's insane cuts. Bjuv got up a few weeks ago – 4,000 people demonstrated to save their Findus jobs. Nurses in Region Skåne resign on assembly lines due to poor working environment and too low wages. This is all connected. For the money needed in our welfare ends up in someone else's pockets. The jobs needed in Sweden are closed by companies based in tax havens. For everyone who thought that Sweden had been spared corruption, tax evasion and tax havens, it is enough today to mention Nordea, SEB, Telia, Ikea, First AP Fund and Sandviken. Let us hold fast to popular anger and take our political responsibility! Let us make sure that we present proposals for changes and legislation that do not allow these scandals to roll on for another 30 years! Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has presented a comprehensive programme to correct the problems that exist, and I was pleased to note that Magdalena Andersson also entered the game yesterday and presented the government's proposals. Some of the proposals are really good, not least those on which the Left Party has already agreed with the government, but I also note the lack of key elements to tackle tax evasion and aggressive tax planning seriously and effectively. The Left Party programme contains eleven areas. The central elements revolve around: Re-establishing public confidence abolish the impunity of the super rich in self-righteousness a strong increase in resources for the pursuit of hidden wealth and tax evasion 中 make it difficult and impossible for banks, audit firms and consultants to provide services for the purpose of tax evasion 中 create full transparency in public registers and exchange of information 中 implement red tax reforms that allow tax evasion to be controlled and that the super-rich can also contribute to our common society. Mr President, I would like to We believe that, in order to restore public confidence, it is necessary for a public and parliamentary committee of inquiry to determine the damage suffered by Sweden, the premises used by the companies and their advisers and the loopholes that exist in our laws. The Audit Commission shall present proposals for reforms that need to be implemented in order to stop the tax evasion. Furthermore, the corruption of friendship between the former Secretary of State of the Alliance revealed by the Tax Agency's leadership must be remedied and the impunity of tax fraudsters in self-rectification must be abolished. Here Magdalena Andersson must take her responsibility and act much tougher. The Left Party also sees the need to strongly reinforce with new money – new financial resources – and legal muscles, including to the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that one important key in the tax avoidance industry is banks, audit firms and consultants providing services leading to tax evasion. The Left Party's proposal for mandatory legislation to report new tax schemes to the Swedish Tax Agency, which the government has agreed to investigate, is very good. However, this must be broadened by introducing notification requirements for suspected tax evasion and by reviewing the possibility of making letterbox companies illegal at Swedish and international level. In addition, banks and audit firms must publish in which countries they operate and which companies they cooperate with in these countries. For the Left Party, it is disappointing that the Red-Green Government, which promised before the elections to fight seriously for greater transparency in the system, has flagrantly failed its electoral promise. Instead, on Tuesday's tax committee meeting, we heard a very satisfied representative from the Swedish business community declare that the Swedish government is actively fighting full transparency and public country-by-country reporting, which according to all knowledgeable sources is an absolute must for us to be able to tackle tax evasion seriously – not least the one that affects developing countries. The government must change its position here and push for real transparency and publicity in country-by-country reporting for multinational companies. Full transparency and publicity make the work against tax evasion more effective because it enables both the media and civil society, researchers and activist groups to monitor their countries and authorities and thus contribute. Mr President, I would like to We have much to do before the battle against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is won. I am surprised that no more bourgeois parties in this House have been more vocal and creative in taking up this one of the greatest problems of our time. Few, if any, new proposals have been presented by the bourgeois side, and its party leaders are noticeably silent. But of course – it is not the sick and the unemployed who are to be hunted now, so the creativity and the ability to upset the bourgeois parties have surely ceased. Or it is because of all leading moderate politicians who have been exposed with hidden accounts in tax havens. You should know, however, that the game is still on! You are welcome, and you are needed, in it to stop the tax evasion.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-88	Mr President, I would like to Trust is one of the most important ingredients in a community building. The fact that people in Sweden know trust and trust in authorities and other fellow human beings is one of our society's greatest strengths. The tax morality – that I am prepared to pay my taxes and do my duty – is based on my belief, confidence and feeling that others are doing exactly the same. But trust and tax morality are slowly eroded unless everyone is right, if an A and B law is created in the tax system where some are involved in illegal tax planning. The logic is very clear: Because some people do not pay the tax they should be forced to pay more. Mr President, I would like to As liberals, we see a value in lower taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. It strengthens the wealth-creating forces. It increases people's freedom and the possibility of self-realization. It creates more jobs. It increases prosperity and gives more money to welfare. But with strong confidence in enterprise and freedom, responsibility follows, and that is that you live up to the principle of paying the tax you are required to pay. As Liberals, we never accept illegal tax planning as a method of reducing taxes. In the political debate, illegal tax planning has been – perhaps a little more often 15 to 20 years ago – explained on the basis that the tax burden is so high that it is a consequence of the tax burden being too high. Since then, however, the tax burden has fallen sharply, and illegal tax planning can never be excused. This is nothing but unacceptable behaviour. From the Liberals' side, the message is clear: we need to do more to deal with illegal tax planning. Mr President, I would like to The Panama scandal is not a Swedish phenomenon, but it is now being rolled up before an open curtain in many countries. This clearly bears witness to the need for international cooperation. In the coming years, new international rules will come into force that make illegal tax planning more and more countries – and they are becoming more and more – obliged to automatically share information with other tax authorities. The Alliance government was involved and driven in this work, and I expect the Red-Green Government to continue the international work on tax planning in the same way. The new rules which are now coming and which make illegal tax planning difficult are a step in the right direction, but there will always be those who want to round the rules. This shows the importance of constantly coming up with new initiatives. Mr President, I would like to When you consider the new initiatives, I think it is important to keep two things in the air at the same time. We need to come up with measures at national level that reduce the risk of undeclared work and ensure fair and fair competition. In the past, under the alliance government, we have already introduced a number of things, such as cash registers or human resources in certain sectors, which have had a significant positive effect on healthy and fair competition and reduced tax error and undeclared work. But I also want to raise the finger of warning. When implementing these measures, you must always keep the conditions of the entrepreneur in mind so that they do not mean increased administration for those entrepreneurs who are doing the right thing and who want to do the right thing. There is sometimes a tendency in the debate that, in our eagerness to combat international tax evasion and illegal tax planning, we describe the entrepreneur and the business community as the threat when, in fact, there is a small group that does or does exploit the system. As liberals, we stand up for the entrepreneur. We believe in fair, healthy competition and an economy, a market economy, which is dynamic and on equal terms with fair competition. Mr President, I would like to From the Liberals' side, we are proposing new rules that place higher demands on banks and financial operators. Our proposal obliges banks to consider all legal entities operating in tax havens as high-risk customers. This means that banks and financial institutions are forced to take specific measures to prevent money laundering. It is only to look at several of the major Swedish banks that are now under investigation, where we can see that there are periodic penalty payments against at least one or two of the money laundering banks, in order to recognise the importance and need for this. Mr President, I would like to I note that the government is now announcing that action will be taken. I also note the high tone of the Minister for Finance. I assume that this also applies to state-owned companies. The current discussion about Telia, where the state is the largest owner, and the tax planning allegedly taking place in Nepal creates enormous uncertainty. The government has a responsibility to be an active owner and thereby influence the company to operate in a responsible manner and follow the rules that exist. I note that Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg is not at all as clear as Magdalena Andersson on this point. Mr President, I would like to I believe in a tax system based on the fact that everyone contributes and everyone is treated equally, where economic conditions create dynamism and competition takes place on equal terms, where there is trust and where tax standards can be restored.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-104	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to stress how important it is to work with digging journalism. We have seen this in the Panamanian case. Without this overall activity, we would not have had this debate today. But we also need to understand that better control is to be sought. It should be quite clear to everyone in this House that the foundations of a well-functioning economy have seen their best days when big banks help wealthy people to hide assets in tax havens. The picture does not improve when relationships between persons in an authority and the person to be checked are incorrectly used. Much of our society is based on trust, and when such things are revealed, trust is damaged. Trust in other people is usually likened to a cohesive kit for society. Countries with high trust generally have stable democracy, a strong economy, good public health, low corruption, low crime and a high level of equality and equality. For this to work, we as citizens need to know trust in our institutions and banks, in authorities treating all people equally and in banks handling things according to the rules that exist. More action is needed against tax evasion. More action is needed against our banks. More action is needed so that our authority can properly control this. We citizens put much of our trust in the banks, in that they handle our saved funds well and our loans to houses, cars or other things properly. I would like to say that this confidence requires that we do not do things that we have now seen in Mission Review. We demand more of those banks. We demand better from those banks. We demand that they actually restore the trust that existed. We Swedes are the people who are most positive about contributing resources to build society. As a country, we rely on tax revenues to maintain the quality of welfare and public services that we want. The tax system is based on mutual trust, on everyone's contribution based on their own ability. In order to create an equal society, a tax system is needed where those with low incomes and low profits contribute less and those with high incomes and high profits contribute more. The public economy is based on high tax standards, that is, we, as citizens, are trying to do the right thing and pay the tax that we are supposed to pay according to the rules. If the tax base is eroded by a fall in tax standards, it will cause problems for both education, care and care for the elderly. That is why the scandal with the Panama accounts and the Swedish banks is so serious. Large banks and wealthy persons have a responsibility to handle their business in such a way that the tax is paid properly. When they do not, other taxpayers will have to pay the price through higher taxes, and the risk is that tax morale will fall further. It is a very dangerous development if more and more people start to withhold revenue and transactions from taxation. No one wants to pay more taxes than the other. And above all, if one does not pay taxes, the other does not want to pay anything either. This focuses on the fact that our taxes must be clear and understandable to people. If taxes become unreasonably high, it is a factor that plays a part in the morality of people's disclosure of income for taxation. I believe that you cannot act as the government seems to think you can. The population of Sweden cannot be taxed at any rate without reaction. The government seems to live in the belief that monopolies prevail, but that is not the case. Citizens can move, businesses can move and money can be moved. Of course, there will be reactions among citizens to ever higher taxes. We should bear in mind that the people who have the highest income always manage. Those most affected by increased taxes are those with the lowest incomes. Taxes that are reasonable and easy to explain to people are a good start for a good tax morality. Recent scandals make it clear that our control mechanisms have not been able to detect these funds abroad. Reliance on people's tax standards alone will not provide us with the necessary information. Although we are trying to create agreements with the exchange of information between countries, that is not enough. An automatic exchange of information where we receive annually information about which Swedish natural and legal persons have assets abroad should be of the highest priority to introduce. These are important measures for everyone to be involved in contributing to welfare. For us Christian Democrats, it is quite clear that a country cannot do without strong values, and people have an internal ethical compass. A value-oriented society has a greater opportunity to meet future challenges together. However strong control mechanisms we have, we still need good values to live on in society. It is values that hold society together, not control mechanisms. Through strong values and increased trust, transaction costs can decrease and the economy can function better. The alternative is frightening: that we should live in a society in which the state is increasingly controlling and ruling. Therefore, I am concerned when I see that no one on the government side is talking about trust or morals about taxes at all. You're just talking about putting more administrative burden on businesses and trying to look for faults in people instead of creating a society where we can actually trust each other-- like we used to.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-120	Mr President, I would like to When we work against tax evasion, it is extremely important that we work on all sorts of levels. We need to work in Sweden, but we also need to work internationally. Much of the tax evasion takes place through various forms of international transactions. Here we have to work in all the arenas that exist. We need to work at a global level in the UN. This summer it was agreed to strengthen the tax committee that exists in the UN and where Sweden will be an active part of that work. Among other things, it is about strengthening the opportunities for tax revenues in the world's developing countries, which we know are in need of their tax revenues. We need to work at European level. The Swedish Government is actively pushing for a priority on the issue of tax evasion within the European Union. We have also decided to join the G5 cooperation on the automatic exchange of registers of the real owners. But we must also work at national level. Here the government is actively working on further measures to reduce tax evasion. We need to tighten up the legislation and ensure that authorities have the necessary resources, and we also need to review the penalties. There are some dividing lines here that have become apparent in the debate today. It seems that the biggest dividing line is between the government and the Swedish Democrats. Here's what the Swedish Democrats say in the debate: When there is a reasonable and fair tax system – then tax crimes should be combated. In this way, the Swedish democrats are giving freedom to tax fraudsters. Just say that it is too high a tax burden; I do not like the tax system. I think the wrong rules apply, and then it's okay to tax fraud. That is the attitude of the Swedish Democrats today. It's not an attitude even the Moderates have anymore. The party of tax frauds in the Swedish Parliament is the Swedish Democrats. We know who can contribute when some avoid paying taxes. Who, then, will have to pay the tax to finance our common welfare when tax evasion, often with good economic conditions, is free-riding? Yes, it is the pensioners, whose tax cuts the Swedish democrats stopped with the alliance government. It is the early pensioners, the sick and the ordinary employees who will contribute when tax frauds are freed by the Swedish Democrats. There is also an ideological difference between the government and the Moderates. I have had many debates with Anette Åkesson. A clear difference is that Anette Åkesson believes that tax evasion should be combated by removing tax. The Alliance government, especially the Moderates, was proud of the ROT and RUT deductions, but they were introduced with such generous rates of deduction that they are in practice exempt. If we are to combat tax evasion by removing taxes, there will not be much money left for good school for our children and young people, the opportunity to build housing so that young people can move away from home, to preschool, health care and everything else. We cannot fight tax evasion by removing taxes. I am being criticised by Anette Åkesson because the government is not doing enough on the domestic level. At the same time, I do not see that there are very many proposals from the Moderates, nor that they are in favour of the proposals that exist. What about increased tax surcharges? It seems Anette Åkesson is against that. What about monthly reporting of employers' contributions? This is something the Swedish Tax Agency is asking for. Are the Moderates for that? Daniel Sestrajcic asks relevant questions about the tax morality of the Moderates. There are question marks here that need to be straightened out. What about the tax morality of the moderate parliamentary group? What does management intend to do about it?
i-93c644e6330edb5c-131	Mr President, I would like to For us Moderates there is no doubt that everyone who lives in Sweden will also pay tax here, as well as the companies that operate here. This also applies, of course, to the banks. We assume that you follow laws and rules and also that you work according to your own routines. I would be surprised if there is no internal work to ensure that these are followed after the events of the last few weeks. At the same time, a distinction needs to be made. Having a company in a tax haven is not illegal in itself. Of course you can discuss both suitability and purpose. It is important, not least as legislators, to keep a cool head. The day before yesterday, the Riksdag decided to sign an information exchange agreement with the United Arab Emirates. It was, in fact, the last information exchange agreement that remained. Sweden now has a comprehensive network of information exchange agreements. In other words, the likelihood of being discovered if money is hidden in a tax haven is great, which should have a deterrent effect. A lot has happened in recent years. The combination of information exchange agreements, tax agreements and self-fixing introduced by the Alliance Government has proved successful. In combination with abolished wealth tax, money has been collected and taxes paid. The opportunity to spend money on a large scale was, ironically, introduced by the Social Democrats. Although the Alliance has clogged some holes, some remains to be done. At the same time, we should be aware that tax lawyers, people and companies adapt and find new ways when the rules change. However, we shall promote the tax administration's determination to make it as easy as possible to do the right thing and be prepared to take further action. We have met in the Tax Committee this week with representatives from both the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and IF Metall to gather their perspective on the international work that is going on regarding tax evasion. They confirm that it is complicated and that it is almost impossible to evaluate what the proposals mean for Swedish industry, Swedish tax bases and tax revenues because there are no impact assessments. It is therefore difficult to say whether the proposals address the problems or create new ones. There are two general questions we should ask ourselves. One is whether we want to cooperate internationally on tax evasion and avoidance, and the other where we want the decisions on taxation to be taken. Here or in Brussels? Both questions we find moderates easy to answer. Our starting point must always be that it will be as good as possible for Sweden. The Left Party has never understood where the money for welfare actually comes from, namely from companies and entrepreneurs. Transparency shall apply between companies and tax authorities, not in relation to disclosure. The very requirement in itself to publish information that risks disclosure of business secrets and hence businesses' activities is in fact in danger of international cooperation against tax evasion and tax evasion – in the first place because the US has clearly stated that they will not disclose such information if it is in danger of becoming public.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-139	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson succeeded in committing the absolutely gravest misinterpretation of what I have said that I have ever experienced, frankly. Of course, the Swedish Democrats believe that it is never acceptable under any circumstances to cheat or commit crimes. When it comes to law enforcement, the Swedish Democrats have the highest credibility. What Magdalena Andersson did was simply to pull a single quote out of context. Of all the things I said, I think it was quite clear that tax evasion and tax evasion are never acceptable. Now that it is clear, I would like to come back to the tax agreements. Until the end of the 1990s, Sweden was top three in the world when it came to keeping its bilateral tax agreements up to date to give Swedish industry the best possible conditions. Tax agreements are also designed to avoid double taxation and non-taxation. However, tax regulations are constantly changing. As a result, old agreements risk serving as a competitive disadvantage for Swedish companies, creating incentives to either move business abroad or engage in aggressive tax planning. Therefore, tax agreements must be constantly updated. Unfortunately, over the last 16 years, Swedish governments have chosen not to see these problems with the Swedish tax agreements. This has been highlighted by both the Swedish National Audit Office and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which already in 2010 have examined the agreement situation and points to the risks of tax agreements not being followed up and that new agreements are not being developed at the pace that Swedish industry needs in order to be able to act competitively internationally. During Göran Persson's time as Prime Minister, work began to decline first and then become almost stagnant. Sweden has been at that level. Nor did the Alliance government take the work on tax agreements seriously, so the Swedish crayfish movement has continued. That the Alliance has not been better than the red-greens shows that there is a need for a substantial re-launch in the Government Office and the Ministry of Finance. It has also been shown that the political blocs differ from government to government and take the opposite approach to what they previously had. In 2011, the Social Democrats began criticising the Alliance government for not having enough momentum in the work on tax treaties, although they themselves were the reason why the work on tax agreements almost completely stopped during Göran Persson's government. Now that the Social Democrats are in government again, they have changed their minds. Now that we are criticising the receded attitude, the Social Democrats put forward the same arguments that they themselves met from the Alliance just five years ago. We Swedish democrats believe that the work on tax treaties is an important issue for Sweden, which deserves a much higher degree of seriosity than is the case today. The tax agreements aim to eliminate double taxation and non-taxation and to prevent tax evasion. They intend to create good conditions for mutual trade and investment between the parties to the agreement. It is about maintaining competitive rules for the taxation of companies operating in several countries, creating a basis for economic development rather than stopping it. Tax agreements also include agreements on exchange of information in the field of taxation. Sweden's most important competitor countries are working for high pressure to strengthen the conditions for industrial activities, including by developing bilateral tax agreements with their main trading partners around the world. Unfortunately, Sweden does not. Both the Swedish National Audit Office and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise show great concern in their reports regarding the outdated status of Sweden's bilateral tax agreements. Both Swedish industry and the Swedish state are losers because of this. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise estimates a few billion a year in reduced tax revenues. The new information exchange agreements are estimated to be about the same. One must not rule out the other.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-149	Mr President, I would like to I, too, note in this debate that there is a forgiving attitude towards tax offences and tax evasion with reference to the way in which the tax system looks. A little more or less between the lines have some of the parties been more obvious, others more insinuant. I think this is a problem. Crime in other areas would not be described in this way and with such a forgiving attitude. It also shows that this debate and discussion are very important to conduct. Free competition between companies is a cornerstone of the market economy. There are a number of laws and regulations, both in Sweden and at international level, to promote free competition. The fact that large companies operating in several countries should not benefit from tax treatment is a question of competitiveness neutrality. The OECD estimates that multinationals pay 4-10 percent less tax than purely domestic companies. It is, of course, a major advantage for the larger companies and a corresponding disadvantage for domestic and often smaller companies. The Swedish Tax Agency is one of the most important authorities that we have in Sweden. The fact that the Tax Agency has a high level of trust among citizens and businesses is crucial for us to have the tax revenue that we have decided on in this House. In recent years, the Tax Agency has also increased its confidence. This has been demonstrated in various measurements of confidence that have been made where different authorities have been compared. What has been revealed in Mission Review means that the management of the Tax Agency has a work to do to rebuild what has been damaged. We also come to the discussion about the reinforcement given to the Swedish Tax Agency to combat tax evasion. The Moderates believe that it is a purely budgetary issue, but it is essential to note in this context that there is probably no more political document in this country than the budget proposal. The fact that we are investing and giving the Swedish Tax Agency a permanent boost in order to increase the control of tax evasion and dubious arrangements is a political priority. In millions it is not a great burden on the budget, but it is something that is likely to have a great effect in money that can come in. It is, of course, also important for trust and confidence in the system. I think that we in Parliament should be sensitive to what the need is going to be, because this is a crucial issue for society. Combating tax evasion is important for almost all countries, but for the global South and developing countries it is all the more important. Trade, aid and exchange are crucial, and ensuring that poorer countries are not drained on tax funds is crucial for sustainable and favourable development. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance presented a ten-point programme to combat tax evasion. It is a series of measures that are important to work with. Some of them are in line with what we have done in the past. It is also important to work harder on these issues at international level at the UN.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-157	Mr President, I would like to It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. Therefore, we cannot just look at reforms that focus directly on tax evasion and advanced tax planning. We also need to implement reforms that make it easier for companies to do the right thing. Mr President, I would like to No complicated rules or time-consuming forms, just an idea and a mobile phone is all it takes to start a business with the Center Party's proposal for entry companies – a new form of enterprise for smaller companies. The proposal applies to companies with a turnover of up to SEK 250 000. The entrepreneur charges on his cell phone. For the payment, a flat-rate tax of 25 per cent of the turnover is charged directly to the Swedish Tax Agency. The rest is kept by the entrepreneur. It can't be any easier than this. Mr President, I would like to A major problem is that a large part of aggressive tax planning is legal or touches legal borders. This is because the rules are different in different countries. In addition, there are countries that retain generous tax laws to attract foreign capital, which is a problem in itself. Sweden will continue to be active in cross-border work to prevent tax evasion. Here, the BEPS work, i.e. the work against tax base erosion and profit shifting, is an important and highly up-to-date work at EU level. Corresponding work within the OECD has created a good position and an appropriate standard. It is desirable, almost necessary, for regulations to become global. Mr President, I would like to The IMF reports show that BEPS is possibly even more important for developing countries than for us. They are even more dependent on tax revenue. In Sweden, for example, income from corporate taxation does not even account for 10% of the total tax revenue. For developing countries, this figure is significantly higher. In Rwanda, for example, 70% of the tax base comes from multinational companies. In Burundi, a company accounts for 20% of total tax collection. This shows that this issue is crucial for developing countries. The introduction of country-by-country reporting requirements has been central for developing countries in order to be able to charge the right tax from the large multinationals. It is important to combat tax evasion and tax evasion and to ensure that more of those who should pay tax also do so. At the same time, it is of course important that the results of this work take into account the legitimate interests of small, open and export-dependent economies such as the Swedish one. We must protect Swedish companies and jobs. It is important that the measures taken to tackle tax evasion problems do not have other consequences. You should go as far as is necessary but no longer.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-168	Mr President, I would like to Much of the differences in this debate are heard. Basically, it is about doing it as well as possible for Sweden, and we all agree with that. But what is as good as possible for Sweden? It must be bringing in the 46 billion. It must be to protect small and medium-sized enterprises which are exposed to unfair competition because of aggressive tax planning. However, it does not seem to be Anette Åkesson's or Per Åsling's line. The Moderates, like all other parties in fact, were before the elections for public country-by-country reporting, but now it is quiet about this. Maybe it was just whale freckles in Diakonia's survey. As good as possible for Sweden must also be to get honest banks, honest accounting firms and honest tax consultants who do not do everything they can to evade tax and help their clients to evade tax. Anders Borg often said that politics is an industry of trust. But trust in the Moderates in this industry is completely exhausted, Anette Åkesson. You have no confidence whatsoever. Several of your parliamentary politicians in your parliamentary group have been caught with tax evasion. What has your leadership done? Have you ever said anything about this? Have you at all disassociated yourself from this in public? Make sure you do it now! Make sure that the Swedish people are told that you do not support the tax evasion that your own Members are doing! There is much to be done on this issue. Let me commend the Liberals who, unlike all other bourgeois parties, are presenting new proposals on what is possible, just as the Left Party and the Government have done. It's welcome, Mats Persson. Thank you for that! Otherwise, it's compact darkness. At most, there is something about the importance of information exchange agreements. They are certainly good, but they are certainly not enough and have major shortcomings – if nothing else to ask for information. You must in principle know the account number of the person you want information about. This is not enough; much more needs to be done. I am amazed at the ingenuity of the Moderates when it comes to hunting refugees, sick and unemployed. It's endless. The improbable bomb mat of press conferences and moves on how to make life even worse for those who have fled the hell of war are not matched by a single press conference to present a single proposal for setting up tax evasion or how to stop the elite's theft of our tax money. You didn't suggest anything. But of course, the Moderates do not want to attack their core voters or leading political representatives who are exposed with their fingers in the jam jar. The other day I saw the new low water mark of the Moderates: unannounced home visits to those who are forced to debase and to live on subsistence support. What is it? What world do you live in? Personally, I would prefer unannounced home visits to zero-taxing greaves and tax evaders living in a real alienation and parallel society where all the trixing seems to be okay. In lightning it shows your policy: control, repression and legislation for the very poorest and those who need the support of society – shrimp sandwich, bubble and high-five to your buddies who scam us all. It is time for more control, more stringent legislation and tougher penalties. Mr President, I would like to The extensive tax evasion costs Sweden over SEK 46 billion each year. It is far more than the extra costs for people who have fled from war Syria to Sweden. There is the money we can use to increase equality and reduce gaps. Tax evasion is a systematic problem created by political decisions or the lack of political decisions that facilitated and allowed multinationals and super rich to construct this world. This is a problem that we must tackle, and it does not need to be seen as a right-left question. I believe that the bourgeoisie is free to use a reduced tax evasion for your favorite branch to lower taxes – even if we want to improve welfare. Moderates, up to evidence! Do something about your own tax evasion!
i-93c644e6330edb5c-184	Mr President, I would like to When the Left Party called for this debate, many Swedes expected us politicians to debate and discuss how to combat and prevent illegal tax planning. They probably expected us to have a debate on what we can do, how we can do and what consequences it will have – not a debate marked by political rhetoric and the rhetoric of class struggles. I think people are very tired of hearing what we just heard – politicians who use events to paint black and white class struggle-oriented images – when they really want politicians to take the problem seriously and present solutions. Mr President, I would like to It is important to direct the strong measures that are needed to the right level. The Liberals feel that the international agreements that have been and will come are welcome. We want to focus our efforts on those banks and financial institutions that help or offer illegal tax planning. It is also important that measures are taken with a balance for the entrepreneurial small business operator, who should be able to operate on equal terms with fair competition. The rules must not make the day-to-day life of this entrepreneur more complicated or more difficult. This balance is important to maintain. I note that the government has put forward some proposals in the fight against international tax evasion and illegal tax planning that risk increasing the administration of individual entrepreneurs. That would be deeply unfortunate. We shall, of course, look at the proposals and analyse them carefully, but the Liberals' reply is clear: we will not agree to measures that weaken the daily lives of individual entrepreneurs. However, we will be putting forward all the proposals to make illegal tax planning more difficult and to ensure that banks and financial institutions assume their responsibilities. We have also presented our own proposals in this area. Mr President, I would like to This work is also about the state companies. Here the state is either majority owner, individual owner or large owner. The Swedish people own these companies. One can have views on whether it is reasonable, but now we have a system where the Swedish people are shareholders or fully own companies. Some are active in other countries; others are active only in Sweden. If state-owned companies operate in other countries, it is incredibly important that they act responsibly and comply with the international rules that exist. Right now there are discussions, suspicions and debates, including in international media, about state-owned companies. Telia is an example where we don't know what's going on. But the discussion is clear, and there is uncertainty as to how state-owned companies have acted. My question to Magdalena Andersson is asked about the Minister for Economic Affairs' statement, which breathes something completely different from what Magdalena Andersson does. Magdalena Andersson has very high tails on tax morals issues, but Mikael Damberg signals something else. How should the government ensure that state companies act responsibly, and how important does the Minister of Finance think this is? Liberals are fully focused on presenting measures that solve the problems, not on the rhetoric of class struggles.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-196	Mr President, I would like to It is incredible that the government managed to present ten proposals on this subject when the Left Party had requested a debate just the next day, so that we have something to discuss. The government reports that it wants more automatic information exchange. We Christian Democrats think that is a good thing. We think that's the way forward. Just having an exchange of information that is not automatic will not have the effects that we want. We are pleased to see that we want to add more money to the Cat Agency in order to be able to work on these issues. It is a pity that it was not decided according to the Christian Democrats' budget for 2016, where we delivered more money to the Cat Agency precisely for this part. I would like to read out what I said in my opening speech: A value-oriented society has a greater opportunity to meet future challenges together. However strong control mechanisms we have, we still need good values to live on in society. It is values that hold society together, not control mechanisms. Through strong values and increased IT, the national economy can function better. The alternative is frightening. I note that neither the Green Party, the Social Democrats nor the Left Party are talking about values in this case. I find it frightening that we do not see the link between values and how society works today. I'm surprised you don't see the connection between pushing so that we get a society where people don't have their own responsibility – not a responsibility towards other people – and that trust in other people and the state is constantly decreasing. We must be able to run a society where we see what is mine and yours and how we can create a community of community where we help each other. I believe that much of this needs to be done in a preventive way. Not only can rules, laws, regulations and administration be set up for companies and people, but the main reason must also be seen. I believe that we need to work with the development of society as a whole – preventive work. We do so in other areas, and we could do so here too. I would be glad if the government parties and the Left Party were to reflect on this in any way, because I think it is extremely important. We can set up as much rules as we like, but the people who engage in tax evasion will find new solutions and ways of getting away if we do not ensure that they have a moral compass in themselves. That's where we have to go to work. I can't believe you don't see this.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-204	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Sestrajcic has a powerful rhetoric, but the questions he asks are relevant. Clearly, the Moderates spend more time and effort chasing the long-term unemployed and sick than chasing tax evasion. It would be interesting to see the Moderates focus on some other things in their politics. My question to Anette Åkesson remains: are you up to the domestic measures proposed by the government which can come into force if not for too long? It is both a question of increasing the cost of cheating the tax or providing incorrect data and of introducing monthly reporting of employers' contributions, which we know would be a powerful instrument for pursuing tax evasion. Anette Åkesson does not correct the questions that exist in the moderate parliamentary group about tax morality. How do you view it, and what steps have been taken after the information that came out of the Mission review? There are some question marks to straighten out. As far as the tax standards of state-owned companies are concerned, this is an issue that the government has been actively working on since we took office. The government's definition of business ethics includes how to pay taxes; it is important. The government addresses this issue in ownership dialogues. We have gathered all the members of government boards to discuss tax, among other things, and it is also a focus issue in recruitment. When we listen to the Swedish Democrats, it is symptomatic that a debate on tax evasion is mainly talking about tax treaties. It is a very marginal issue when it comes to pursuing tax evasion. It is clear that this is not where the interests of the Swedish democrats lie. Attention, Sweden's tax-fiffler! The Swedish Democrats are the party for you.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-209	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt whatsoever: We who live or operate in Sweden should also be prepared to pay tax here. We are facing challenges in the future, such as an ageing population and increasingly tough international competition. It also imposes requirements on the tax system. It must be well designed to secure tax revenues for the financing of welfare while safeguarding jobs and growth, but also to ensure that taxes are perceived as legitimate. Therefore, the work against international tax evasion but also tax evasion within the country is important. The Alliance government gave priority to the issues and delivered many measures, such as tax agreements, exchange of information agreements, work on BEPS and on home level human resources, cash registers, RUT and ROT deductions and a halt to the interest rate spin of the Social Democrats. We take a position on proposals when they come to Parliament, Magdalena Andersson, not after a press conference. In general, we agree across-the-board to take the challenges seriously and that work must largely take place in international cooperation. But the rules must be implemented wisely and effectively. We need to move in line with other EU countries, and the EU needs to move in line with the US, Japan and others to ensure not only Swedish tax bases and tax revenues, but also a generally good business environment and therefore jobs. Viable companies are important to the well-being and should be able to engage in the development of their business. It should not be tax schemes that are the basis for their existence. I therefore admit that I would have felt more confidence if it had been an alliance government that ruled Sweden today, not this weak Social Democratic and environmental party government that is dependent on the Left Party.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-214	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Finance is making persistent attempts to keep a distance from the Swedish Democrats. In her last post, she went beyond all bounds of what someone can reasonably take seriously. The areas where the Swedish Democrats have the highest credibility and even exceed the Social Democrats are immigration policy and law enforcement. The Swedish Democrats are fighting crime in all areas. The Minister of Finance would be happy to tell the Minister of Justice that this is not just a tax offence. Given that we are probably quite in agreement in this House that tax offences should be combated, we should be able to move from words to deeds. I suspect that the Left Party and perhaps also the Social Democrats want to go so far with regulations that it even harms honest companies. As far as the tax surcharges are concerned, I agree that it should be more likely to deter multinational companies that carry out aggressive tax planning and commit tax offences. The Swedish Democrats will always be very open to and interested in supporting proposals that curb crime in whatever areas.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-218	Mr President, I would like to In my closing speech, I would like to say something about the importance of prosecuting tax evasion, tax crime and evasion even at the municipal level, because that is of the utmost importance. Many towns and cities around the country have problems with crime and a black economy. For many, this is the single biggest obstacle to achieving sound economic but not least socially sustainable development. It can take different forms. It can be about undeclared work in a restaurant, contraband cigarettes in a kiosk and illegal alcohol in a car in a parking lot. It can be about weapons and, in the worst case, human trafficking. There are, of course, different degrees of this. Some things hurt people very directly and are of course the very worst. But even those forms that appear to be more innocent, we must fight vigorously, because what seems to be milder is more connected with it. They are the same people who smuggle cigarettes and alcohol, who also engage in more serious crime. We have to fight everything. An important part of this concerns cooperation between authorities, the possibility for different authorities to share information and cooperate. Yesterday such a proposal was dealt with in the Committee on Justice. We must continue to work on it. As politicians, we must be very sensitive to the need for these authorities to be able to work together to combat crime.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-222	Mr President, I would like to The debate is largely about how we can secure the tax bases. It is important to indicate that the tax bases should be national – these are national competences. Decisions on tax collection should be made here in the Swedish parliament and nowhere else. Mr President, I would like to It is a small group of individuals and companies involved in tax evasion. The criticism must be directed against them and action taken. The regulatory changes that are being implemented and that we will have on our table here in the Swedish Parliament in the future must also be directed with precision precisely towards these problems. Creating a krångelsverige for Swedish small businesses and entrepreneurs is not a solution. It is important to problematise the issue to deal also with the consequences for trade and global development, among other things – I have commented on it earlier in the debate. The consequences for the large countries of the EU and the US differ from those of a small, export-dependent country such as Sweden, where the multinationals have the bulk of their sales and profits abroad. The advanced tax planning in Panama is far removed from how ordinary people reason, and it is outrageous, provocative and unacceptable. Even more remarkable is that large Swedish banks are helping to make it possible.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-226	Mr President, I would like to It is clear, Mats Persson, that after eight years of government with class politics that have deteriorated for the weakest and improved for the richest, you don't need class struggle rhetoric. But you should listen to my first speech, in which I actually presented many suggestions: changes in self-justification rules, restoring confidence in the Tax Agency, strengthening resources for the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Economic Crime Authority, reporting obligations for banks, audit firms and consultants on suspected tax evasion, disclosure of tax havens, public country-by-country accounts and more. In fact, your party was the only one who did not promise before the elections that you were in favour of this, while everyone else was in favour of it. As you know, we have many suggestions. Why don't you comment on them? Let me also agree that the problem of state-owned companies is big and crucial and that we have to get to the bottom of the problem in Telia. Larry Söder talked about morals and values. I agree. It's crucial. When we get a society that cracks, where the welfare of the common people deteriorates because the super-rich elite can draw to the Cayman Islands and hide their money, then there will be a collapse. But I don't hear a single concrete suggestion from you. I do not hear any suggestions as to what to do about the big banks, no suggestions as to what to do about tax evasion. What are your concrete suggestions, Larry, beyond values and morals? I also note that tax evasion has increased during the reign of the Christian Democrats for eight years. Was morale so low in society then? Was morale at the bottom so that no money could be collected from tax evasion? I hope that this debate has shown that there is an important issue to be tackled, and I am pleased that the government has presented proposals. They are not enough, but there is much more to be done. I hope we can have fruitful discussions on that. We have to tackle the counselors. We have to tackle the banks. We need to restore confidence in the administration of the Tax Agency. We need to get a country-by-country reporting that is public. Thank you for the debate. I hope that we will work together to stop aggressive tax planning and tax evasion.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-235	Mr President, I would like to This debate has at least been about trust, that people trust in economic policy, that people trust in fiscal policy. It is clear that this is an important debate, not least in the light of the fact that we now have a Minister of Finance borrowing in a boom and in the light of the fact that we have the debate that we have on the Panama scandal. For trust to remain, it is incredibly important that we politicians take action, not least when it comes to tackling illegal tax planning. It is also important because it should never be acceptable to conduct illegal tax planning. It can never be allowed. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, it is important to say that the individual entrepreneur should not get caught up in the implementation of the measures. It is important that we focus on the right actors and the right bodies – not on those entrepreneurs who are trying to do the right thing. On the Liberal side, in the debate, we have clearly pointed out the need for international agreements and that, on a point-by-point basis, we move forward positions but do so in such a way that the individual entrepreneur does not suffer from increased regulatory burden and increased bureaucracy. Illegal tax planning can never be accepted. It is a threat to trust in Swedish society. It should be vigorously combated that people escape taxes and deliberately engage in illegal tax planning. Mr President, I would like to The debate has clearly shown that there are those who are very keen to talk about the rhetoric of class struggle and that there are others who are happy to talk about what concrete measures we can take to get all the way through.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-240	Mr President, I would like to I want to give the Left Party the right thing: this is not an ideological question, but those who withhold taxes in the way that has been reported must be opposed, because that is not acceptable – none of us in this House think that. We must have a tax system in which those who earn more pay more in tax and those who earn less pay less in tax. It is also to be resisted that those who earn a lot of money find ways that they do not pay any tax at all. What we do not agree on, however, is that the solution is not only to increase control and increase administration – and actually to pursue those who have businesses – but perhaps there is another side that we also need to work with, that is, the value work that we need to have in society. I believe that there are many different signals in society that show that evaluation work needs to get a renewed start in Sweden. Not least in recent weeks, we can note in the newspapers that the valuation work needs to get a fresh start in Sweden on many different levels, but also in this part, that is, that people who make money must also have a moral compass that you are involved in paying to society and that that money is being used properly. I am convinced that we in this House are trying to distribute the money as well as possible, and with regard to all the money that we allocate to municipalities and county councils, I am convinced that they are trying to manage it in the best way possible. But people must also feel that not only can we think about ourselves, but we must think about someone else around us, and we must feel that society remains together and is not a society that constantly separates. I am very sorry that the government parties have not raised this issue at all. Honor to the Left Party, which in any case tried to do a small part of this!
i-93c644e6330edb5c-245	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for a good and important debate which has been very clear. It sounds as if we agree that we think it is important to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. But when it comes to action, it is clear that there is a profound ideological difference in the way we see it. Everyone says it's really important to fight tax evasion. But it must not be more complicated for companies," says the bourgeois parties. It's very important to fight tax evasion. But we must not increase the tax surcharges," says the Moderates. It's very important to fight tax evasion. But we do not have any concrete proposals from the Moderates for further action. It's very important to fight tax evasion. However, we have not heard a single measure presented by the moderate management about what they intend to do with regard to the tax morality of their own tax group. This is evident from today's silence and Anette Åkesson's answer to the questions that have been asked and which are highly relevant. Then there is today's gossip – the attitude of the Swedish democrats. They devote this debate on tax evasion to discussing tax agreements. Tax agreements are important, but they do not in any way combat tax evasion. It's a bit like going to buy a bathing cap if you're going to learn to swim; it's a good start, but you don't get that far. It is important to combat this in a powerful and effective way, because if those who are well-off are not involved and contribute, tax morale will be eroded and the social contract will be destroyed. We can never accept that. There are no shortcuts to closing these loopholes for tax fraud. It will take hard work. But step by step, we will tighten the nets for those who do not do right. Step by step, we will tighten the nets for those who ride free-riding on others. And as Socialist Minister of Finance, I will never condone tax evasion.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-260	Mr President, I would like to Annika Qarlsson has asked me what legislative initiatives or other measures I am prepared to take with regard to the rules on the replacement of tracks for asylum seekers. The rules for the change of tracks were introduced by the previous government. They mean that those who have worked during the asylum process and established themselves on the labour market can, under certain conditions, be granted a work permit without having to leave the country first. In order for a change of track to be considered, certain conditions must be met, including an application for a change of track to be submitted to the Finnish Immigration Service no later than two weeks after the decision to refuse the asylum application has become final. The temporary asylum law proposed to enter into force on 20 July of this year provides for temporary residence permits for persons in need of protection. In this context, it introduces the possibility for a person who has previously received a temporary permit and for whom the grounds for protection have ceased to be granted a permanent residence permit if he or she is able to make a living through work. This was part of the agreed measures between the government and the Moderates, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party. The possibility of a track change is an exception. The main rule is that residence and work permits must be granted before a person enters Sweden. I understand that it may seem unnecessary for those who are in Sweden and offered employment to have to leave the country to apply for a work permit. For the individual, it can entail costs and other negative consequences. At the same time, it is an important and fundamental principle for maintaining regulated immigration. The requirements for a change of track represent a balance between different interests. On the one hand, it is reasonable for a person who has established himself or herself in the labour market to be able to stay in the country under certain conditions. On the other hand, it is important that the asylum process has a clear start and a clear end and that decisions that have gained legal force are respected. It is important not to create a system that makes use of the asylum system by people who want to enter Sweden to gain access to the labour market. This could lead to longer processing times in the asylum process and could undermine the system and the right to asylum. Finally, I would like to point out that anyone who has been refused his asylum application but does not qualify for a change of track is, of course, able to apply for a work permit from his country of origin. Against this background, I do not currently see any reason to take further action on this issue.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-266	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I have read the answer many times and try to understand the problem referred to by the Minister – the risk of undermining the system. People who come to Sweden to work contribute to welfare. With a troubled world, it means that many people are on the run or have been on the run from war, terror and starvation. Many also seek opportunities for a better life for themselves and their children. The reasons for flight and migration differ, but it is a big step to leave your home country for something else unknown far away. For those who have been here for a long time during an asylum process, it is natural for them to root. For the children, Sweden becomes their only country, Swedish often becomes their only language and here becomes home. Depending on the reason people come here, there are regulations that regulate the different tracks. It may be a question of asylum reasons, of labour migration or of their coming because of love. The reasons for one or the other differ. But when the reasons change, it must be possible to change tracks. I can't see it in itself eroding the system. When asylum reasons do not exist and people are working, making a living and contributing to the welfare of our country, I do not see the possibility of a change of track as a threat to the system, but to a very great extent as a natural part of the system of regulated immigration. The Minister says in his reply that it is not a problem that leads to action that we have a change of track in a window for two weeks after the rejection of the asylum application. The Minister says that a temporary residence permit will be permanent if they can make a living through work. The Minister also says that applicants for residence and labour permits from their home country to come here are not grounds for taking any action either. But if the window is extended or from where you are looking for changes, the system will be eroded. What, then, is the worst thing that can happen, Minister, if we extend the possibility of changing tracks? Let me tell you the best thing that's gonna happen. It is about people of meat and blood who have rooted themselves in Sweden and gained support, such as the family Ghazali, who has started and run a business and owns their business property. They have children who have completed their entire schooling in Sweden, work and study further and who want nothing more than to do right and be involved in contributing to a richer and better Sweden in a place called Svenljunga. But the Minister's answer means that they will be allowed to sell and travel elsewhere. With an entry ban, it is impossible for them to come back and run their business further. It becomes an illogical consequence of a square system that the Ghazali family in Svenljunga, and many more in the same situation, do not have the opportunity to change tracks. I know that the Minister cannot answer questions about individual cases. But there are principles in this which can still be met. In this case, a whole district reacts to the unreasonably square system. However, it is a system whereby those who can work and make a living are welcome here. That is even the subject of the first May train on Sunday. There, your party colleagues, Morgan Johansson, will say that the family must be allowed to stay for humane reasons. Mr President, I would like to My supplementary question to the Minister is: what is the Minister afraid of with an increased possibility of a change of track?
i-93c644e6330edb5c-277	Mr President, I would like to The system that Annika Qarlsson now calls unreasonably square and against which she is horribly critical was introduced by her own government. These aren't new rules. They were introduced during the bourgeois period, when the Center was part of the government. There are qualification requirements for a change of track to be carried out. One requirement is that you have had a job for four months. The employment must have had conditions at the level of collective agreements. It should be a serious employment relationship. Another requirement is to be able to offer a duration of at least one year after that. As Annika Qarlsson says, you must also submit your application no later than two weeks after you have received a rejection of your asylum application. That was the order the old government created. It was the order that went through here in Parliament and that the Center was behind at the time. Maybe you don't anymore, Annika Qarlsson. I think that, after all, there are quite good reasons for these rules. I believe that a change of track is an exception to the general rule, i.e. that when it comes to labour immigration, you are looking for it from your home country. If we were to open the way Annika Qarlsson obviously wants – I don't know if the party wants to do it now – it would mean that anyone who receives rejection could immediately register as a labour immigrant instead. In practice, then, we are introducing free immigration. Maybe the Center wants that. The last government didn't want that. Neither does this government. We want regulated immigration. Most difficult would be such a system to deal with right now. We already have a situation of 160 000 asylum applications that came in last year. 140,000 people are waiting to hear from us. A little over 100 000 decisions will be taken this year, two thirds of which will be approved and perhaps one third rejected. This means that there will be a little over 30 000 rejections this year. If these 30 000 people could immediately move into labour immigration, we will have to take care not only of those who are granted consent but also of all those who are rejected. Then, as I said, we are opening the door to free immigration in practice. That is why, like the previous government, this government is not prepared to extend what is today an exception to the general rule. We believe that there must be order and order in the asylum process. The person who is granted the asylum application may stay. Anyone who does not get consent without rejection can go back to his own country. That must be the guiding principle. If we move too far away from this principle, we will end up in a situation that we will not be able to cope with. That's what the last government realized. This government has the same attitude.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-284	Mr President, I would like to The Minister is very much concerned about the system, more than people. We hear this in both the first and the second answers. It's a frightening human sight. In this case, as in many cases, it is about people who are already on the Swedish labour market. They have either started and run businesses or are employed. On the basis of that, they want to be tested for a change of track. The fact that it would ruin a whole system, that it would ruin the whole of regulated immigration, is a picture that I do not share with the Minister. On the contrary, these are clear principles that we have; those who can support themselves have the opportunity to come here, stay here and be part of Swedish society, even if they do not have asylum grounds. To claim that the whole system would be destroyed and demolished because of it is a threat that does not match reality. The Minister asked where the Center Party stands on the matter. The Center Party is in favour of regulated immigration. We also say that we want to increase the possibilities for track change. We see that it is part of the system of regulated immigration. Opening up to further opportunities there does not run the system. We were, together with the Green Party, involved and contributed to the reform taking place in 2008. We know that the Social Democrats were very critical. This is interesting. I asked Minister Fridolin at Question Time yesterday about how he views this. He sees that there are things that make him ready to review these parts. It may not be illogical, but rather logical. What does not make sense is that it is not clear from the Minister's reply today that the two parties that are part of the government have slightly different views on this. I have a slight feeling that the opposition to the whole labour immigration reform also fades into the view of whether to make further expansions. You don't want people to come here to make a better life and contribute to our common well-being. We in the Center Party are proud of the reform that we carried out. But we see that there are things in the regulatory framework that need to be adjusted. It is important to ensure that it is not misused, but also to ease the strict constraints on the reform. We would like to see us opening up the possibility of a change of track for those who can make a living – regardless of time in the asylum system, whether they have had time to reject the asylum application or whether they are in Sweden or in their country of origin. The requirement is to be able to make a living. It is interesting that the minister's party colleagues on Sunday will stand and say that it is not reasonable for the family to be expelled, that it is not reasonable for the rules to hit a family that has established itself, that has adapted, that has started its new life here, that is contributing and that wants to contribute more. If track change isn't the road, is there another way? What message does the Minister want to send to his party comrades about the path they are going to take? What will it say on their poster in the demonstration on May 1st?
i-93c644e6330edb5c-292	Mr President, I would like to Here I stand defending the rules for the change of tracks imposed by the previous government. Then I'll hear from Annika Qarlsson that it's a frightening human sight. That's exactly what the Center was up to. It must be recognised that migration policy and the whole issue are full of conflict objectives and difficult decisions. Then one must be able to stand up for a system in which one dares to take the difficult decisions, for example that anyone who is refused their asylum application must go home. This is fundamental to the issue of asylum. If we were to do it the way Annika Qarlsson and the Center now want, but they didn't want it when they were sitting in the government – they didn't do it – we are actually opening up to free immigration. Then it will be much less important if you are rejected, if you go home or not. Instead, you will try to get into the labour migration trail. Today we already have a number of 160 000 people who arrived last year, with 100 000 in our asylum accommodations, with another 50 000 people in the EBO and with increased processing times in the asylum system. In fact, it's also about people. It's not just about the system. In the coming years, we will be able to integrate a few hundred thousand people into Swedish society. That's the biggest task we've ever had. I think we can do it. We have 4% growth, we have falling unemployment, we have falling youth unemployment, we have falling long-term unemployment and we have all-time-high in terms of the number of job vacancies. If that boost in the economy continues, we can do this. However, if, at the same time, we are to be able to deal with all those who are refused asylum applications, I can say that we will not be able to do so. They will enter the Swedish labour market. We need to build housing and everything else that needs to be done. In addition, we risk ending up in exactly the same situation as we were in during the autumn, i.e. getting a very strong increase in the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. The issue of migration policy is full of these conflicts. I would therefore appreciate it if we could avoid having the debate in such a way that we are talking about one or the other having a frightening view of people. Respect for the difficulties in this area should be respected. We can do this, but we can't do it if we open up to a truly free immigration, which – if I understand Annika Qarlsson correctly – the Center really wants. That is what this would lead to. We must stand up for regulated immigration and order and order in politics.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-301	Madam President, I would like No, the Minister misunderstands me, and he certainly does so on purpose. Opening up the possibilities for more people to change their tracks does not mean removing the requirements for regulated immigration. If only it were as easy as the Minister describes it for those who are denied easy access to the labour market and then seek employment permits. I do not know which labour market the Minister is living with. Even if there is now pressure in the labour market, fewer people go unemployed and more people get a job, we cannot believe that we have a labour market that only swallows everyone. In that case, it wouldn't be a problem. But there will be a somewhat strange debate when you want to make it that we want to remove all regulated labour immigration, that there will be no demands for a change of track. It is clear that demands should still be made. What I want to expand is the possibility of opening the window of time that today extends to two weeks to be open longer. But you should also have the opportunity to do this and not just from your home country. When asylum reasons do not exist and people work and make a living and contribute to the country's welfare, I do not see the possibility of a change of track as a threat to the system, but it is very much a natural part of the system of regulated immigration. The possibilities exist today, but they need to be further adjusted. That is what I wish and ask for, that is to increase the time and to let the fact from which one seeks to make a difference for people of flesh and blood and with dreams of a life in Sweden. I firmly argue that this in itself would not overturn the system of regulated immigration.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-307	Madam President, I would like Then I have to ask: in what way would the two weeks we are talking about now be a problem? When you receive a refusal you have two weeks to report that you have worked for four months and have a lasting and serious employment, which will last longer than for a year with serious conditions. Why should these two weeks be a concern? The big thing here is whether a non-compliant person should have to go home to apply from his home country. The valve that exists is that you meet the requirements of having worked for four months and have a permanent job. Otherwise, you can go home and search from there. However we twist and turn the question, we come back to whether the change of track should be an exception or whether it should be part of a general rule. Should we, in this situation, extend these rules, which were created by the former bourgeois government of the Center, I am quite convinced that there would be enormous effects. This would mean that those who receive a rejection can take advantage of the situation and instead of going home will remain in Sweden. It is a matter of concern, especially if the other regulations on permanent employment, the level of collective agreements and so on are being touched. This would create a strong effect when it comes to remaining in Sweden and also increase the number of people who would come to Sweden significantly. We already have enough serious concerns about the regulatory framework and the situation that already exists. It would be a lot worse if we were to go the way that the Center wants us to go.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-311	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what immediate steps I am prepared to take to maintain the availability of the fighter aircraft. The Defence Materiel Administration, which is responsible for the maintenance of the fighter aircraft, has stated that the situation that has arisen is not acceptable and that, of course, comments from the military aviation inspectorate are taken very seriously. I'm not making any other judgement on this matter than FMV. After the transfer of air workshops from the Swedish Armed Forces to FMV, it is for FMV to comply with the regulations for military aviation, RML. This transfer of activities from the Swedish Armed Forces was decided by the previous government in June 2012. FMV has been tasked with demonstrating to the Military Aviation Inspectorate that the action plan prepared by FMV in November 2015 is also being implemented. The action plan includes clarification of delegations in working methods and governance documents, additional training on RML and increased audit responsibilities at management level for licensed activities under RML. FMV is working intensively to solve the task. In this context, I would also like to remind you that the Government has already appointed a special investigator to review the supply of equipment and logistics to the Swedish Armed Forces. That task includes the question of how logistics services – of which the maintenance of combat aircraft is one – should be organised based on the need for increased operational capabilities in the armed forces.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister of Defence, for the answer to my interpellation! The background to the interpellation is that a few weeks ago the aviation safety inspector decided to withdraw the air repair shops' permission to issue certificates of release for the fighter aircraft. This immediately led to a number of fighter aircraft not being able to be delivered to their respective divisions and participate in the activities for which they are intended. Madam President, I would like It is important to remember that this came as no lightning from a clear sky. The aviation safety inspector warned six months ago that he might withdraw the permit. It is really only when it is too late and the decision has already been taken that FMV seems to have taken the criticism of aviation safety very seriously. Yesterday, the Air Safety Inspector was present at his meeting. He spoke of conflicts of interest between the management of the Defence Materiel Administration on the one hand and the regulatory framework governing aviation safety on the other. Simply put, the management of FMV wants deliveries and orders and creates pressure on air workshops that they cannot handle, at least not if it is to be compatible with the rules on military aviation. This raises the question not only of how the air workshops are organised and under what authority they should be, but also of whether we have sufficient capacity in the air workshops. A couple of years ago, one of the three air workshops was closed down, namely on F 17 in Kallinge. A few years later, when we find that the pressure on the workshops is far too high, the question must be asked: do we have too little production capacity? Doesn't it stand in pairs to the need of the Air Force? It would have been interesting to hear whether the Minister for Defence had any comment on that issue. At all, we are considering how the logistics and operations of FMV are rigged based on what the Minister of Defence chooses to end his response with, namely: Is it rigged based on the demand for increased operational capability in the military units – what is the single most important directional decision? Has FMV refuelled and taken on board the changed threat picture that Sweden today has and the changed defence policy direction that we have got? On this point too, Madam President, it would be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Defence believes that there is still a journey for the defence logistics to make in order to adapt to the content that exists not least in the defence minister's own directional decision.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-321	Madam President, I would like These are interesting perspectives and views that Allan Widman puts forward. These are, of course, realities that need to be addressed. Both I and my State Secretary have taken this problem very seriously. I know that there has also been intensive work within the authorities, such as FMV, and dialogue with the aviation safety inspector on these issues. I can now inform you that yesterday there was information that the military aviation inspectorate is in agreement with FMV on the various measures taken and that restrictions on maintenance activities will be eased. This means that FMV can again deliver aircraft to the Swedish Armed Forces. The acute phase should therefore be over. I got the clock. 10.15 today, just before this interpellation debate, take note of a decision by aviation safety inspector Anders Janson : Referring to the financial statements made by FMV for the FSI and the implemented measures and the action plan presented in an FMV letter, the FSI considers that the organisation has taken the necessary corrective measures due to deviations 1 and 2 and has repealed previous decisions limiting temporarily the organisation's authority to issue certificates of release to service. This means that the business will be functioning again. I thought it was important to be able to give that message in the debate, so it was good that I could get it before the debate. Then let me remind you that I was chairman of the Defence Committee, which is Widman's current position, when this was handled in 2012. In the discussions we had at the time on this issue, the committee stressed the importance of ensuring that any transfer of activities to FMV or other principals would not lead to a deterioration of military capabilities or a reduction in preparedness requirements. That is what the committee delivered in this context, and it is an opinion that I have not changed. I have the same position as I did then. It is extremely important that FMV tackles these kinds of problems and takes them very seriously. An investigation is now being carried out into the logistics services, which include the maintenance of the fighter aircraft. This shall be organised on the basis of the requirements for increased operational capability in the armed forces. It is no coincidence that that part is included in this context. However, it is a little early for me to stick my chin out and say: This and this is how it is! No, the investigator will have to finish his work. I am saying these things now in the debate with Widman because I would like to emphasise that I take this issue seriously and seriously. It is extremely important that this works. If such situations arise, it is necessary to solve them. We're not supposed to have this kind of position, we're gonna have to tighten the bow harder. In any case, I am pleased that I was told today at 10.15 that the situation we have ended up in has been resolved.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-327	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense's statement is very welcome. It does not come as a complete surprise to me, as we could already yesterday hear from aviation safety inspector Anders Janson that a solution was in the pipeline. It is good that the production at the air workshops is now starting up again and that there are no urgent threats to the availability of our fighter aircraft. I am grateful for this. At the same time, I do not believe that this can blow the danger over, other than on a temporary basis. I note that the process leading up to the withdrawal of the permit by the aviation safety inspector lasted six months. It is my assessment that the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration has not taken the criticism seriously enough early enough. We now need to get some form of an early warning system and ensure that FMV reacts to the criticism that is coming at a much earlier stage. Yes, that is correct – the logistics reform that changed the head office of the air workshops and transferred them from the Swedish Armed Forces to FMV was decided during the reign of the Alliance, but without the opposition at that time having reserved itself. But now we have the situation that we have. I asked two questions. I thought that I received some answers to one, which was about whether logistics and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration downloaded the new defence policy approach, which prioritises national defence of Sweden, or whether they still partially remain in the defence that focused on international efforts, which means completely different and lower demands on both accessibility and preparedness. The question that I was not allowed to answer and which I hope the Minister for Defence can now come back to was about the overall capacity of the air workshops. We removed one of the three air workshops. Is it the defence minister's assessment that the capacity is now sufficient? The aviation safety inspector notes that there is a conflict of interest between FMV's requirements for delivery to the Swedish Armed Forces on the one hand and the regulations applicable to aviation safety on the other. I would be grateful if I could have an answer to that question, Madam President.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-332	Madam President, I would like As far as history is concerned, I would like to point out that what we had a discussion on in the Committee on Defence was the condition for applying to this type of action. It was then that we introduced that this should not lead to a deterioration of military capabilities and reduced preparedness requirements. Now we have to deal with this, but I can assure you that we have not suffered from passivity during this time. This is a situation that simply needs to be resolved, and this has been done with regard to this part. I'm not blowing any danger over. I do not think that it can be done in any way today, but things of the most varied kinds, almost every day, are constantly coming up. What has happened shows the importance of us following up on the business and ensuring that this lasts long-term, so that we do not end up in such situations. It is clear that this is a basis for dialogue with the responsible authorities. When it comes to the question of more workshops – this is probably what Widman refers to – it is of course so that I cannot ask myself and promise straight of workshop facilities like that or so. However, if there are views and questions about capacity in relation to regulations, you have to evaluate those pieces and see how to solve it. Exactly what the solution should look like and whether this is a core problem will come back to. I'm not unaware that this kind of balance is part of the problem, but I don't want to stand here and lock myself up for an exact organizational form of how to work in the future. A distinction must then be made between the role and the role of the authority and the role of the policy. For us, however, it is extremely important that we never have a tendency to lose military capabilities or to reduce emergency requirements. I take what has happened very seriously. This is also known within the respective authorities.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-336	Madam President, I would like When it came to that, it was my assessment that it was a mistake to close down the aircraft workshop at F 17 in Kallinge, Ronneby, thereby withdrawing one third of our capacity in this area. On that occasion, I called for representatives of both FMV and the Air Force and asked a very straightforward question: will this work in the event of closure? I got a clear message from FMV: Yes, we promise that this will work. The Air Force then replied: With such a promise we can do nothing but trust that message. Madam President, I would like The reason I dwell on this is that there are similar promises in a wide range of other respects as well. This applies, for example, to the maintenance of aircraft engines, which I and the Minister for Defence have had the privilege of discussing on several occasions in this House. Promises are being made. I believe, the Minister for Defence, that the time when you blindly trusted the promises and automatically laid the foundations for the decisions that politics made is probably over. We now need to improve the routineisation, control and follow-up of the changes that are also taking place at a relatively low level in the authorities. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for the debate.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-340	Madam President, I would like It is always important to try to have the initial value of realism in different contexts. I do not really disagree with Mr Widman when it comes to always evaluating what is said against what is believed to be a reality. I'm not going to put either one or the other in the way of promise any more than I realize that these are questions that we have to work on continuously. We will constantly face problems. We will have problems of an economic and operational nature. These are the things that the authorities have to take on continuously. That's how reality works. I have no immediate solution to present to the problem more than that the knot that was now in question has been loosened. I realize that these are things we follow up on. FMV is very clear that it is something we need to follow up and work with. Of course, we are also concerned that it will work in the future. Then you have to evaluate balances in capacity and regulation. Above all, the most important thing is that, in the time we are living in, we cannot, because of internal organisational issues, have problems with military capabilities or preparedness requirements. That must not be the case. That is the political dimension of this. Then the authorities have to work on that platform.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-345	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me if the government intends to authorise the Materielworks to order the mid-term modification of two sausages from the Gävle class and what measures I am prepared to take to be seven corvettes.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-347	I note that the maintenance of seven corvettes is of great importance and that the Swedish Armed Forces have planned in their investment plan for a mid-term modification of two Gothenburg corvettes (HMS Gävle and HMS Sundsvall). These corvettes will be named Corvettes type Gävle and will be operationally relevant until the mid-2020s. The investment plan also includes the maintenance of the Visby corvettes. This means that together there will be seven operating corvettes. The Government takes an ongoing position on the Swedish Armed Forces' proposal for material investments when the preparation requirements in the government form and the prerequisites for a good decision for the operations are met. The Swedish Armed Forces are working on these issues, and the preparation of a decision-making document is ongoing.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-349	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. It becomes clear that the Minister of Defence does not want to expose himself to review reports by failing to comply with the preparation requirements contained in the government form, and of course I have every respect for that. We must meet the processing requirement. It is obvious that it can sometimes hinder the various decisions to be taken in the field of defence policy. At the same time, you can read in the Swedish Defence Forum, a newspaper that is the Swedish Armed Forces' own, that the operations of the vessel Hunter, 44 years old with 21 000 hours of operation behind him, on the west coast are now completed without being replaced. The personnel who have served on the Hunter are now dispersed in different directions, including to other units but also to civil society and studies. With regard to the type of decommissioning that is ongoing in military defence, the processing requirement does not appear to be a problem. They are prepared and processed all the time. Now the Minister for Defence, as stated in the orientation decision of last summer, says that there will be seven corvettes that form the core of the sea-going units during the defence decision-making period. I can only say that if a decision is not taken in the near term on the mid-term modification of two corvettes, there is a real risk that there will not be seven corvettes in service at any time during the defence decision-making period. There has been some writing in the newspapers over the last few weeks about the costs that have arisen in relation to various initiatives in the directional decision. It is not without a feeling that there is now some sort of control. I myself served as commander of the grenade launcher company at Kronoberg Regiment in the 80s. When you were shot wrong with a grenade launcher, the shooter came on the radio and said: Control! Then everyone had to leave their mortar pieces. Then an officer went and searched each weapon separately to find out what had gone wrong. When I listen to the Minister for Defence, I do not escape the feeling that there is now control in the Government Office, Madam President. The Ministry of Finance wants to review all the efforts that have now been made regarding financial miscalculations before moving forward with orders and other assignments. If this is the case, the corvettes are not the only ones at risk of being delayed. Then there is also a risk that much else in the specialization bill will not be realized.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-354	Madam President, I would like I think that you should have some caution before you say with determination: This is how the economic conditions look exactly for various defence equipment projects. We do not know the final sum of the various projects until it is finalised in each project and until the projects are fully examined and any corrections have been made either in numerical or in quality or in some other sense have changed. It is only then that one can say with precision how the economy is falling out. It's nothing that feels like a big surprise. I already told you at the Sälen Conference that we will have discussions on forecasts of costs and time shifts. For me it's nothing that I feel is particularly surprising or particularly strange. Widman also knows that this type of phenomenon is something that has arisen and followed the development of the defence equipment for all years. Nor is it any wonder that we are working intensively on the various equipment projects at the Ministry of Defence. I assume that was the case even under previous governments. If you haven't done it, it feels very strange. We will have to wait until we know the exact outcomes of various material projects before we are too determined in how it will end. However, much is going on. There are many deliveries in the pipeline. It is an intensive work to implement the specialization bill. With regard to the interpellation on the corvettes, I share the view – we may never have had a different view – of the importance of maintaining surface combat capability and pursuing the directional decision. The projects that will be decided on in the coming years are included in the budget base and associated investment plan that the Swedish Armed Forces entered the Government Office with on 31 March this year. This is the basis we are working on right now, and it is the investment plan itself that will be decided on in connection with the budget proposal 2017. We need to be able to work on this under the usual and reasonable forms that exist. You have to come back with the results of the work. We are constantly conducting a dialogue from the Ministry of Defence with the Swedish Armed Forces on this issue. If, in the near future, the Swedish Armed Forces were to submit a special request to the Government to carry out mid-term extension measures on current corvettes, this request will be handled according to customary procedures. In my answer, I have explained that our ambition is to clear out what the specialization bill means and that we work like this with this focus.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-361	Madam President, I would like It is now almost a year since the decision on the direction was taken here in Parliament. This concerned, among other things, the mid-term modification of two corvettes. I note that no order has yet been made; in any case, I am not informed by the Minister of Defence that it would be any other way. From ordering a mid-term modification of a ship of this size until it is delivered it takes almost three years. This means that if there is not a decision in the near future, perhaps not even one of these two corvettes will be ready by 2020 during this focus period. With this, I would just like to emphasise the urgency that I believe must apply if the intentions of the orientation decision are to be fulfilled. It is quite correct that in January in Sälen, the Minister for Defence warned that much of what was planned and decided would not fall out exactly as we had imagined when we took the parliamentary decision. He also comes back quite often to the fact that you can't accept costs, that you have to work with them and that you have to influence and reconsider. I have every respect for that attitude, Madam President. But when it comes to the material projects, the Swedish state is almost always bound by agreements with private legal entities. This means that the companies that are to deliver to the Swedish Armed Forces have the right to demand payment from the state. If the payment is not made, they can ultimately go to a court and claim their right. That is why the room for manoeuvre is very limited in the case of equipment projects and contracts with private companies. My concern is a concern that I know is shared by the Armed Forces leadership; they have expressed it, among other things, in the 2017 budget base. It is true that, in the end, it is not possible to influence the cost of the equipment, but rather to save what is most important, namely the training and training of our soldiers. These are simply the only costs that the authority itself can influence. If this happens, there is a risk that what is the main ambition of the focus decision – to increase operational capacity – will fail.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-367	Madam President, I would like We are now in the fourth month since the adoption of the orientation decision. So it came into effect on 1 January. On 1 May, which is a day of reference in other contexts and the day of the labour movement, we enter the fifth month. So it has not been that long since the decision took effect. However, I can say that there is work going on to prepare orders for equipment, and it is in this work that we have the opportunity to discuss and influence price images and other things. This is what I think has been important to try to mark. In this type of process, you should do everything you can to influence price images. It is also where you can make values and ask yourself if you should do otherwise and still be able to achieve the same effect as you had planned from the beginning. It is this type of process that we are working on. We have an ambition to come back in the 2017 budget bill. We will not take action until all the necessary evidence has been presented so that we feel that we have solid ground under our feet. In addition to implementing a decision, I have to relate to cost frameworks. If I didn't work on the basis of a cost framework, I wouldn't do the job. I have to work on these two balances. I have every respect for realities. If you do not have the energy to touch on the problematic parts so that you can at least overcome feared cost developments as far as possible and also try to ensure that the framework is kept, I think you have ended up in a problematic situation. When I follow the current debate, I sometimes think: all those who take part in the debate and write articles about one and the other and talk to one and the other who say that it is more expensive – what would it be like if they were the ones who were holding this? Would we have a cost explosion that was terrible? Wouldn't they even try to resist? Would they not even try to evaluate the matter and think that it is possible to do it in a different way? Wouldn't they take any responsibility for the money? We must also look at this issue when considering the general debate on the economy. We will have the opportunity to come back to this on many occasions. This will not be the last time it is debated. We will have endless opportunities to exchange views on all the details of the whole difficult and complex matter of materials. I just want to remind you of one thing. In the specialization bill and in the work of the Defence Committee, we said that we should make an investigation of what we then called the material mountain. This applies to the entire future giant challenge within virtually all the Swedish Armed Forces' equipment teams. This investigation will be set up, and it will provide a basis that will be added to the next defence committee. The aim was to facilitate the defence preparation so that they would have as stable a material as possible to stand on when they take on this difficult task. When this is presented to the government, it should be as thorough as it is possible to get it.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-374	Madam President, I would like It is not a new story for a defence decision to be taken which sets out a number of objectives and that, shortly after the decision has come into force, you will find that the money is not enough for the data. Peter Hultqvist knows that, during the time I took part in the defence negotiations on behalf of the Liberals last year, I repeatedly warned against this phenomenon: everyone and everyone, both within the authorities and at the political level, is trying to push as much as possible into the defence decision without allocating corresponding funding. We note, Madam President, that the Swedish Armed Forces assessed the need for EUR 17 billion. They got more than half of this, 10.2 billion. Now the Minister for Defence says that there will be an infinite number of opportunities to discuss misplannings and possible costs in the coming years. I really share that view. However, I think that when all these discussions are finished, we will come to the conclusion that we always come to, namely that politics could set up the tasks, but we could not provide the necessary funding.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-377	Madam President, I would like It was not quite as simple in the negotiations as Widman says. When discussions on the 17 billion were conducted, it was specified on various types of equipment projects up to the 17 billion. What we removed were specific things linked to direct materiel projects. This problem is mainly based on the fact that we should have had a buffer inserted into this – it sounds like it when you hear Widman. It was not quite the way the discussion was conducted, but it was spe cific projects that were picked out. So a frame was laid. It was based on what the Swedish Armed Forces considered necessary for each project. There was careful and detailed discussion about it. I am not prepared to go along with discussions on misplanning and misjudgements and so on, but I would like to see it this way: we have taken a parliamentary decision that contains a wide range of parameters. We will try to comply with that parliamentary decision. We are therefore constantly having discussions to that end and with that focus. My ambition is to deliver increased military capabilities in different ways and in different variants. Then we will have to assess when we have more concrete evidence to consider what we do in specific situations if they arise. But I think it is too early to have too firm a view of what one and the other means at present. Then part of the debate that is taking place today concerns costs that will be incurred during the next defence decision-making period and not the current period, that is, not during this defence decision-making period. It is important to have it with you when assessing today's debate and today's conditions.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-382	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what steps I am prepared to take to get BAE Systems to offer Archer to Denmark. The Danish Ministry of Defence's purchasing organisation DALO has, in the framework of its procurement of a new artillery system, collected and evaluated offers from seven different suppliers, including BAE Systems. Five of these have now moved forward for further evaluation. BAE Systems Artillery Systems Archer is not one of the five systems that have progressed, of which it follows that Archer is no longer present for export to Denmark.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-384	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defense, for the answer to my interpellation! It is quite correct that from a procurement perspective right now Archer is not relevant to Denmark. But my interpellation involves the 24 pieces that Norway previously ordered and that they have now cancelled their agreement on and want to return to Sweden. These 24 plays will apparently be a responsibility for the Swedish state and will be taken over by the Swedish state. They are, at least with the planning contained in the orientation decision, something of surplus material at the moment. The Secretary of Defense says that BAE is no longer up to date with Archer in the procurement. But procurement is not the only way to sell defence equipment to other countries. Sweden has a long tradition of government to government, where the Swedish state sells excess material to another state. We have done this in the Czech Republic with fighter aircraft, in Hungary and Thailand with JAS Gripen and Singapore with submarines. All these deals, Madam President, have been second-hand deals with redundant Swedish defence equipment. We have, of course, not least through the services of the Minister for Defence, a bilateral and important cooperation with Denmark for a few months. It should not be impossible for him and for the government to try forcefully to point out the option of taking over redundant Swedish artilleripés as an alternative to the current procurement.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-387	Madam President, I would like I am trying to answer exactly what was said in the question about what measures I am prepared to take for BAE Systems to offer this piece to Denmark. That's what I answered. So they have been sacrificed and judged. So I started from Widman's own wording when I formulated the answer. We are getting close to a point when I think about what I should really tell you about the reasoning that has been made in different contexts, because there is a counterpart involved. I'm no stranger to government-to-government business. This is not a fundamental obstacle in any context. You can imagine arrangements where you find a kind of deal where you say we buy this and you buy this. It should, of course, be present when making this kind of assessment of how to make an affair with these plays. What I can say is that we have contacts with several countries. We work in relation to several countries and try to promote these pieces in a good way. Here, of course, the industry is also active. There is respect for this system; I can see that in the relationships I have. I'm not going through all the details now, but it's a system of very strong firepower. It is an effective system. Then it's clear that there's a bit of cost connected to this. I will come back in due course when we are through with the negotiations that are taking place with Norway. Then I will have to come back to what it means and what different legal parameters and balance points and assessments were in that context. But we're not there yet. Widman can be sure that we are working intensively on this issue. We have made contact with several countries. We work with the industry and try to find a solution to this situation. But I do not think I should go into detail in this Chamber in exactly the way we work.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-393	Madam President, I would like I can understand that not everything can be discussed in a speaker's chair in our Chamber here in Parliament. At the same time, I would like to recall that during the autumn when he visited the Defence Committee he said that the negotiations that were going on for the 24 cancelled Norwegian a Archerpjärna should be completed at Christmas time. That is what the committee was told at the time. Now Christmas has both come and gone behind us, Madam President, and the Minister for Defence says that there are still negotiations on what is going to happen to these 24 redundant plays. We look forward with excitement to how to regulate their relations with Norway and whether these pieces can be disposed of elsewhere. I would like to point out that the positive thing about government to government is that the price picture is very flexible. When the defence equipment is redundant in the Swedish defence, which it is according to the planning of the specialization proposal, you can also sometimes sell very cheaply. Denmark is a rational country that has made itself known to seek precisely cost-effective solutions, and I point out here an opportunity for the Minister of Defence to be able to market the Swedish artillery against Denmark. There are also, to say the least, obvious advantages if the Nordic countries, including Denmark, are able to choose to a greater extent the same uniting equipment. It will facilitate our practice cooperation, and it will facilitate cooperation in scenarios beyond peace-time, as the Minister of Defence usually calls it.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-397	Madam President, I would like I share the basic view that there would of course be advantages if the same defence equipment could be used in a Nordic perspective. The experience gained is that it is easier to collaborate on a lot of other things, such as exercise activities, information issues and different types of handling. However, the material side is much more complicated. We have several examples of this in the near future. If I am going to make a sincere assessment after this Danish announcement about how they intend to proceed with artillery systems, I think it is difficult to arrive in Denmark. I have to take seriously what they say in their evaluations. Of course, if there are ways into it in any other way, we are open to it. But I would like to point out that it is not quite easy to go around reality. As far as the discussion we had in committee is concerned, it is right that Allan Widman says that we had the ambition to be ready by Christmas. But then there was an outstanding issue that turned out a little more difficult than we thought. It is the one who has been running out of time, and it is about some money, of course. If we could free up additional financial resources against taking a little longer, that is something I think the committee is forbearable with. As far as Norway is concerned, I would like to say that this is to dissolve the agreement itself and what is related to it is one thing, but the sales part is another thing. This is something you have to split up. But we are working intensively on that question. There is no budget in the Swedish Armed Forces for these 24 plays. The alternative we're working on is to get them sold to another country.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-402	Madam President, I would like Now I think it was the Minister for Defence who suddenly became a little weak when it comes to the possibility of selling defence equipment to Denmark. It is certainly true when we look at the major platforms, whether they are combat aircraft, helicopters or submarines, that the Nordic countries have chosen to go their own, individual paths. But the fact that something is difficult cannot cause one to give up hope. It should be the last thing that abandons us humans, according to some words of wisdom. I would like to stress to the Minister for Defence that my contacts with Danish defence policy over the years have probably confirmed the image of a country seeking very cost-effective and rapid solutions. Nor do I think that Denmark, notwithstanding the country's security policy orientation, which is partly different from that of Sweden, has any objection to the fact that the equipment within the respective armed forces is becoming more compatible between the Nordic countries or even choosing the same material. Do not lose your appetite, Minister of Defence, but work with Denmark in the same ambitious way that I am convinced the Minister of Defence will work on in keeping the cost framework for the targeting decision. I can assure the Minister for Defence that the committee is prepared to wait very patiently for information on Archer in the event that it can lead to a reduction in economic damage for Sweden and for Sweden's defence.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-406	Madam President, I would like I don't think I'm weak-hearted, evasive or anything else. I just wanted to underline what has been said in its own evaluation that, unfortunately, the Archer artillery system is not one of the five systems that has been taken forward by the Danish purchasing organisation. You should bring with you that measure of realism when considering these issues, so that you do not paint scenarios where this appears to be much easier than it is. That is really just what I wanted to say in this context. I am, of course, pleased with all the positive calls in this difficult and difficult work and I am grateful for the debate.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-408	Madam President, I would like Carina Herrstedt has asked me when the LSS investigation will start, when I intend to present the directives for the investigation that I previously flagged to come and whether it is my intention to question the LSS, which is a law of rights, and compromise with the intentions of the LSS reform with the stated aim of saving money. LSS also means the law on support and service for certain disabled people. I have previously announced that a review will be carried out by the LSS and of the assistance allowance under the Social Security Code. There is currently intensive preparation of directives for such an investigation within the Government Office. Once this work is completed soon, the investigation directives will be decided. It is more than 20 years since LSS and assistance compensation were introduced. This reform has significantly improved the living conditions of many girls, boys, women and men with extensive disabilities. The laws have enabled more self-determination and created the conditions for a more independent life for people with extensive disabilities. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that it is important for me and for the government to protect these reforms. However, there are problems in the LSS and the assistance reimbursement that require a review of the legislation. These include the development of costs and inadequate legislation in the area of assistance payments, the allocation of resources between the women and men receiving assistance payments and those receiving other assistance. Furthermore, it concerns the transparency of the performance of personal assistance for those receiving assistance compensation, as well as legal certainty, equivalence and quality of operations. There are also significant differences in the availability and scope of interventions between girls and boys, women and men. One of the aims of the review is to modernise the legislation and achieve greater accuracy, holistic approach and diversity in the support legislation. Over the last ten years, the cost of assistance compensation has doubled, while the number of persons receiving assistance compensation has not increased at all to the same extent. It is necessary to break this trend in costs and create a long-term sustainable financial compensation system. It goes without saying to me that welfare costs. At the same time, everyone in our country should feel confident that the money in our tax-funded welfare is being spent properly.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-414	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have long been calling for a review of the LSS and its application, and I am not alone in this. Moreover, the government has made an announcement on this, so there is no direct agreement on the matter. I have been exercising on this since I entered Parliament in 2010, when I believe that the law is no longer applied in the way originally intended. My main focus has been on the needs assessment and how it is applied, but also on the abolition of the two-year rule for certain groups. The answer I have received since 2010 has consistently been that a review is under way, that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency or any other authority has received some kind of assignment. The last report once again rejected our motion, with the reply that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency had recently been given a mandate to report on measures. This is mainly about better control and a more legally secure management of assistance payments. It is about reducing the risk of undue payments and over-exploitation and about measures that can reduce regional differences related to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's management. I myself am a personal assistant in essence, so I have seen the need for personal assistance. I have also seen the anxiety among those who use it. There are many out there, both relatives and people with needs, who are deeply concerned that a review now seems to be mainly about trying to bring down costs rather than reviewing the assessment system. People are concerned that they can no longer get the help they need to feel part of society or have a reasonable level of living. All they are being given today is that as soon as the preparation of the directives is completed, the work will begin. What does this concretely mean in time? Will it be before the summer or before the end of the year? Is it even this term of office? Not even a time frame between the thumb and the index finger can the Government tell us about here today. Now, indeed, the Government added the order a short while ago. It may be interesting to know what that means. In fact, there are many who wonder if this is such a hot potato that the government is more or less deliberately delaying and waiting for a new government, probably a bourgeois, to take hold of this. Then one wonders if today's government is not ready and does not dare to take hold of this for fear of making a rather unpleasant decision. I agree that there are problems within the LSS and the assistance compensation that make a revision of the legislation de facto necessary. However, I believe that the way in which the Government responds is a source of concern. She points out that the review concerns, among other things, the development of costs and inadequate legislation in the area of assistance compensation and: over the last ten years, the cost of assistance compensation has doubled while the number of persons receiving assistance compensation has not increased to the same extent, and therefore it is necessary to break the cost trend. This shows, I believe, that the review has a wrong objective from the outset. From the outset, to have only the perspective of the state and the need to save on costs as the only perspective, I think, will be wrong. Is not the aim of reviewing the LSS reform to see how it meets the goals set from the beginning and how to do this better and more effectively? There may be other reasons for reviewing the LSS. Whether that is the case is an excellent issue to be addressed in a review. On the other hand, to have the stated aim of reducing costs from the outset is to start with the answer before even defining the most relevant questions.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-423	Madam President, I would like This is a very urgent debate. I know that the honourable Member has a background in working on these issues. I think this makes it even more interesting, because it is a complex piece of legislation. It is society's most vulnerable that needs this reform. That's also why it came into being. We really want to safeguard the initial values and starting points of the LSS reform. However, a government must be in control of how different issues develop. In this case, it is remarkable, one might say, that the costs of the reform, which should go to the most vulnerable, developed to a certain level for the first ten years. Some 14 000 people joined the reform. Then the costs doubled over the last ten years when only about 2 000 people entered the reform. We don't have a good answer to that. I think a government must have it. We are trying to get that control and that answer to ensure that the funds actually go to those who need and are entitled to this, because it is a law of rights. We have close consultations with organisations on this issue. It is a controversial issue. But I understand that most organisations with whom we talk daily understand what the government is saying, although there are a lot of points of view and, as the honourable Member points out, concerns too. That is why I want to come forward with these directives. I hope they arrive before the summer. That's what I'm going to work for. I think that's very important. There are several aspects that we want to address. It is simply: how does reform work today, in the society in which we live today? And there are other aspects that we also want to look at. Some organizations think it's great that families can play the role of personal assistants. Others think it locks in. Some organisations think that other measures in the LSS, which are not assistance, are hidden a little behind the assistance – for example, it can be a matter of escorting. At least they don't think they get what they're entitled to. This also applies to assistance. I am told by many that they think they should be entitled to assistance. They do not get it even though the cost trend looks like it does. Another aspect, which I also mentioned in the answer, concerns the gender perspective. We know that men receive more personal assistance than women. You don't really know why that is. All of this prompts us to review the reform.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-429	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the information before the summer! I think that pleases a lot of people. The government says she wants answers to questions before the directive comes in. I can agree that it might be good. I will then come to the question of the directive that the Social Insurance Agency has already received before these questions have been answered. It says that Försäkringskassan will help to break the development of the number of hours within the assistance allowance. Here you have gone out and done something before you have answers to questions. We have received indications from representatives of some disability organisations that these directives have led to people who actually have an increased need today not daring to seek for the increased need for fear of having fewer hours in essence. They are afraid that they will then have fewer hours than they are entitled to today. It has an absurd effect on those people who really have an increased need but who do not dare to look for it. The Government does not seem to be able to give any clear information on how it is supposed that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will manage to reduce the increased costs in the debates or interviews I have read. Is it about those who already have assistance getting fewer hours? Is it about those who make new applications not being granted the number of hours they are de facto entitled to or need? For me, this will be a clear signal policy that money goes before the need. One of the reasons that the hours may have increased may be that more and more people are getting older and that, as a result, there is also an increased need. Today, we have a better health care system that makes it possible for people who might have died of a stroke or similar, but who have an increased need for assistance in order to cope with their everyday lives. It is quite interesting to know: how are the directives to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency supposed to be enforced? How will Försäkringskassan manage to reduce the number of hours? The Government is also talking about the proper use of tax money. I think it is positive that everyone should be entitled to the tax-funded welfare one. I'm 100% in favour of that. On the other hand, we may differ a little in terms of what we mean by appropriate. I agree that taxes should go to such things, but the question is what taxpayers have expected from their paid taxes. Isn't it just about maintaining good welfare? In spite of this, many taxpayers today are forced to see how well-being is slowly but surely dismantled, but in some areas there seems to be unlimited resources. For example, it cannot be considered appropriate that people who reside illegally in Sweden receive dental treatment for 50 SEK, while our elderly people pay the full price and are therefore forced to abstain. It would be interesting to know what Åsa Regnér means when she says We assume, of course, that this means that those who need LSS will also receive it and that the cost perspective will not come first. As you know, there are many other costs that the state could save on instead. It would be interesting to know how the Försäkringskassan can achieve this and what is meant by a good sense of efficiency in this context.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-439	Madam President, I would like Yes, a good idea is simply that the money should go to the purpose it was intended. We want to be sure that this right law goes to the very rights that the law contributes to implementing. For example, we do not want money to go to rogue companies. We want better control of it. The manager of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency spoke this weekend and told some of her thoughts about what the Swedish Social Insurance Agency can do further. In addition, there are post-payments for this operation. Carina Herrstedt spoke earlier about what governments have been doing since 2010. I have only influence over what the government has been doing since 2013. However, I can note that the previous government did nothing about this issue and its development, although I have not been told that the previous government understood what was hiding behind the strong development of costs. In addition, when it comes to supporting welfare efforts, the only time the Swedish Democrats had an opportunity to influence this, they voted against the government's budget, which had greatly strengthened welfare, for example by 2 billion for elderly care. Even though you had said in the election campaign that you were on the side of the elderly, you therefore voted against the government's budget which, now that it has been implemented, is really very effective in strengthening welfare and care for the elderly with more hands and more knowledgeable people.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-444	Madam President, I would like Åsa Regnér says that the Swedish Democrats voted against the government's budget. I would like to point out that this was not really the case. We voted in favour of our budget, which involved efforts for the elderly. That is an essential difference, and that is how it is done in this House. Åsa Regnér also says that the previous government did nothing. Having said that, I hope that the Government understands my frustration and the frustration of the users – those who really need it and who have probably heard from before 2010 that something is going on and that something is going to be done. At the same time, this review raises more questions than it answers and creates great concern among the organisations you have been out talking to. So, as I said earlier, there is a great concern about seeking an increased number of hours out of fear of having fewer hours on the contrary. This is not a development that we want. This letter of regulation that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has received about reducing the cost of the number of hours thus creates a huge concern among those in need of assistance. As I said, this raises more questions than it answers, and that is why it is very unfortunate when you say that you want answers to questions before giving directives, although you actually go ahead. There has been strong criticism of this call to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Among other things, someone says that it means that the government says that current legislation does not apply and that it is similar to ministerial government. Some economist says that the government judges the legislation, and former chief lawyer at Försäkringskassan says that the government violates the legislation. This is remarkable.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-449	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carina Herrstedt, for this debate on a very urgent issue. I would like to conclude by saying that what the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is going to do is to help break the sharp increase in hours, nothing else. It's not sitting above the law. I understand very well that people who need this reform, who live with assistance or apply for it, are very concerned. It is indeed an issue that I take seriously, and that is why I want these decisions to be taken as soon as possible. We have a close dialogue with representatives from the organisations, and that is very important to me. That is how we will continue to work.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-452	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I intend to initiate a review of the Social Services Act and, in particular, how to avoid unnecessary duplication of work. Johan Hultberg has also asked if I am prepared to review the Social Services Act in order to provide greater opportunities for actors other than the municipalities' social welfare boards to investigate and assess family homes. The government is currently preparing the question of a review of the Social Services Act. I will have to come back to the matter later. As far as the issue of unnecessary duplication is concerned, my position is that it should be avoided as far as possible. From the outside, it may appear that it is a question of unnecessary duplication of work that a municipality must make its own assessment of a family home that is already investigated by another municipality. However, it is the location municipality that is responsible for its investigation of the family home. Parts of a recent investigation of another municipality can be used, but each placing municipality is responsible for investigating its intended family homes. It is an important part of strengthening the safety and security of children. To answer Johan Hultberg's second question, I would like to begin by emphasising that the investigation of intended family homes is an important tool in ensuring good and good care for children and young people. The Social Welfare Board may not decide on care in a family home without the conditions in the individual home being investigated by a social welfare board. However, an investigating social welfare board has the possibility to employ contractors who are natural persons and who are linked to the board in such a way that they can be considered to participate in the Board's activities in order to carry out the investigation. Such a contractor is under the authority of the Board and performs tasks normally assigned to an employee. Basic provisions such as those on confidentiality, professional misconduct and supervision thus become applicable to the work carried out. The question of allowing private legal entities to conduct investigations in social services is addressed in the government bill 2006/ 07:129 Development of social care for children and young people, etc. It discusses, among other things, the conditions for private legal entities to conduct family home investigations in certain different situations. The government at the time stated, inter alia: It is important that the homes that can be considered for the permanent care and upbringing of children, with the consent of the Social Welfare Board or decisions on care, are investigated. The completeness and fairness of the investigations are required in order for children to have as good and safe an environment as possible. It is therefore particularly important, in the view of the Government, that there should be no doubt as to the responsibility for investigating the homes. It would lead to border problems and difficulties of application to deal with the situation where the general suitability of a home is investigated differently from the situation where a home's suitability to receive a particular child is investigated. The investigations should therefore not in either case be carried out by any actor other than a social welfare board. ..................................................... I agree with this position and see no need to bring the matter up for further investigation.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-460	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The pressure on social services is very, very great. This pressure has gradually been set up for a long number of years, but in recent years the situation has become almost acute due to the very large reception of refugees that we have had in Sweden and that we still have. Last year, all previous records were broken when over 162 000 asylum seekers came to Sweden and of them over 35 000 just unaccompanied children. This has certainly put social services to the test, but also our whole society and all our social functions. The big challenge we now face is also very much about trying to integrate all these people who come to Sweden, to quickly get people not only to come to Sweden but also to come into their own livelihood. I am fundamentally very concerned, Madam President, that the government is not taking these challenges seriously enough. I have noted that the Prime Minister over the last few days has toneed down the challenge of creating more simple jobs for newcomers, which I find very worrying. The government is raising the thresholds in the labour market rather than lowering them, and it is precisely the wrong medicine to tackle the challenges we have. But now, Madam President, it was mainly the challenges of social services that we were going to discuss here, and my interpellation is mainly about placement in family homes. In his reply, the Minister pointed out that the government is currently preparing the question of an investigation into the Social Services Act. What is the government preparing? Is that a review at all? Or is the preparation about what directives the investigation or review should have, that is simply what the review should cover? I very much hope, Madam President, that this is the latter. There is a real need for a review. From the Moderates' side, we have been very clear that we see a need for a complete review of the Social Services Act, not only the parts dealing with family homes, although I think those parts are particularly urgent to look at. We want to see a complete review of the Social Services Act. This is what we want because, when the law was written, it was supposed to act as a framework legislation that was not very detailed, but today many municipalities and individual social security secretaries feel that the law has become rather detailed. It is, of course, about how the law has come to be interpreted and about the regulations that the responsible authorities have developed from the legislation. So we really want to see a complete review of the legislation to simply create better conditions for social services in Sweden's municipalities to fulfil their mission. Madam President, I would like It is the case that the municipalities do not fulfil their mission today – 72 municipalities have reported themselves at the moment of speaking lex Sarah. I note that in previous interpellation debates, the Minister has pointed out that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency conducted a survey which showed that about half of the municipalities' social services are in the immediate situation of crisis. The situation is therefore very serious, and measures are needed to create a better workload for social services and conditions for faster processes. This should of course be done without compromising the quality of the individual child or client who is in need of the services and services of the social services.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-468	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we are having this debate, because it is a very urgent issue. It is a welfare society that must be at its best when people are at their most fragile. When you come to social services and especially to social care for children and young people, it must work. Unfortunately, there is a Swedish story where it has not always been so. Unfortunately, we have experience from the Remuneration Board and a neglect investigation that shows that children in the past were placed in families where there was little knowledge and where children were very bad. The children had no knowledge of their rights, and society did not know how the children were doing. Now we know that things went very badly for many, and we should not go back to such a system. We're not gonna have that kind of testimony again. This means that children placed through the social care system, regardless of their background and whether they are unaccompanied or have different backgrounds, should be treated well. Their rights shall be respected. We are not going to lower the standards, and we are not going to make a difference between children. When I debate this, I usually have to answer for the fact that family homes are not of sufficiently good quality or not sufficiently investigated. This is already happening in municipalities, and it is the most common debate I have on family homes. I am worried about the many children who came in the autumn. Social Secretary and other staff worked around the clock and did the best they could to find a good reception in families for these children. They made it through that time, but sometimes with a lack of quality. There is now more time to find out about this situation, and there is more time to investigate the children. That is what I want to support. I believe that it is incredibly important for the rule of law and for the placement of these children that the investigations are carried out with clear responsibility and documentation – and that we know who receives the children and what demands are to be made. I would also like to say that I appreciate that we are having discussions about what is happening now and what is going to happen in the future. But when it comes to the fact that social services were in such bad shape already before 2015 – and already before 2014 and 2013 too – there is a great responsibility to the government where your party was involved, Johan Hultberg. It did not strengthen social services and, above all, social care for children and young people, despite endless reports on the situation even before this situation. I have worked very hard to strengthen the social care of children and young people, together with national actors, to strengthen the profession and children's rights in different ways and to try to find out about the situation of refugee reception. Now we are changing migration policy. As I now travel around Sweden, which I do very often, I see that you still have a very strained position but have entered the investigation phase in a different way than you did last autumn. I think it is extremely important that this is done in a professional and clear way and that we know who is responsible – and can demand that responsibility.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-476	Madam President, I would like Frankly, I am completely uninterested in standing in this House and discussing who is responsible for the challenges we face. The only interest I have, Madam President, is to discuss how we can create a better functioning social service and how we can face the huge challenge that Sweden has in this moment – as our 290 municipalities are now – when it comes to trying out family homes, investigating family homes and creating as good and safe growing environments as possible for our severely vulnerable children and young people. This applies regardless of whether they have ended up in difficult situations during their childhood here in Sweden or if they have immigrated to Sweden and have a luggage with them that is probably many times extremely tough. I want to resolve the situation, and that is the background to my interpellation. I note that none of us who are involved in the debate want to compromise on quality. We want good controls, and we want to investigate every family home. The only question is whether there are opportunities to create a better functioning regulatory framework. Are there opportunities to simplify the current regulatory environment? Yes, Madam President, my view is that it is possible to do so. So there were four times as many unaccompanied refugee children last year as they did the year before, and that is a huge challenge. I note that many municipalities today, because of the extreme strain they have, are unable to investigate at all. There will be no investigations at all of family homes. Children are placed without the opportunity to investigate, and that is why they, among other things, lex Sarah report themselves – that they are unable to carry out their mission. Then, as politicians, we must ask ourselves what we can do to change the legislation. What can we do to provide absolutely more financial resources, and what can we do to create better procedures? I spoke to the chairman of the municipal council in Karlsborg, who is a party colleague of the minister. He pointed out that he has staff who have to go and visit home in Torsby municipality. It takes all day to do that control. Could we not revise the legislation so that Karlsborg municipality can lift the telephone phone, call colleagues at the social services in Torsby and ask: Could you not carry out the follow-up for us? Wouldn't you be able to carry out the control on behalf of Karlsborg's municipality? Is it reasonable for us to have two social secretaries who will spend a whole day – in the car, really – going to Torsby and following up on a home? I don't think that's reasonable. The legislation is writing one at a different time, and I do not want to blur the quality. The Moderates do not want to compromise on quality, but we are only interested in discussing how we can create better-functioning legislation in order to deal with the difficult situation we are in and ensure that everyone who is in need of a family home or otherwise needs to be placed gets the best possible location. In concrete terms, we Moderates have pointed out that we want a national review to ensure the need for family homes and on-call homes. We want to develop a strategy for how and when children should be taken care of and placed in family homes, and we want to enable more national adoptions and create a long-term strategy for it. We want to review support, procedures and compensation for family homes in order to create better conditions for family homes to meet their commitments. These are some of the moderate proposals, Madam President, but I did not hear any concrete proposals from the Minister – not one. I have to ask the question: why is the government so passive? Why is the government so reactive? Social services are in crisis. I expect the government and the responsible minister to show leadership.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-484	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member. I do not know where the honourable Member was then, but we had a debate in this House on the situation of unaccompanied refugee children and social services. At the time, there were some comments that the government had taken so many measures that there were an enormous number of sides to the report. We have been very active in meeting this situation. We have taken a lot of initiatives to strengthen social services. Unfortunately, this cannot be said of the previous government, and I think it is important to explain why the situation is as strained as it is. Then we can focus on what to do now. When it comes to family homes, among other things, we have a mission to look at what you simply get for the funds you use when placing children in different places. How does a consular family home, for example, work from a child's perspective? What is the service that the child actually receives in different forms of placement? The National Board of Health and Welfare has a stronger mission to inform about what a family home is, to recruit more serious family home providers and to offer training to them. There is a long list of what we have done on these issues, and we have had a hearing in Parliament about it. We have had a debate in this House on this, and I am happy to come back to you on everything we do. The Social Services Act will also be reviewed, and I want to review it in its entirety. It hasn't been done for many years. The Social Services Act is a very fine law, I would say, because its ambitions are very important in a welfare society and in a social model that I represent. However, society has changed, and it is true that this is a framework legislation where much has been followed up with details. We need to adapt legislation to today's society. This is much more true than family homes. Family homes are a form of placement that social child care and youth care have at their disposal. Social child and youth care is in turn part of the entire social services, so this is a big and complex issue. Nevertheless, we want to tackle it because we believe that social policy and a well-functioning social service are extremely important. What happened was exactly what I said: In 2015 Sweden received 35 000 unaccompanied minors. Overall, Sweden received 70 000 children – we rarely talk about that, but that was the case. This may be compared to the fact that there are about 100,000 born every year in Sweden, so there were a large number of children who came. For the 35 000 unaccompanied persons, social services had direct responsibility, and then it was simply that many municipalities were unable to find family homes in their municipalities. HVB can also be about. We have introduced a new form, support housing, which already exists in some parts of the country. In any case, some municipalities needed to invest in other municipalities. Some municipalities announced that they did not have time to investigate even though the legislation says they should. When I travel around Sweden – the last time I was in Norrbotten, where I visited three municipalities this week; I was in southern Sweden last week and so on – I see that one has come to a stage where one can investigate and where one best tries to sort out situations, for example that children exist in other municipalities, and find solutions for how to best take care of these children. It's a tough situation. We have increased by 1 billion during the term of office of staffing. We strengthen the municipalities by 10 billion per year. I hope and believe that some of this will be used in the municipalities because they have a great responsibility for the reception of refugees. I will support social services so that they can do a good job in relation to these children and their future.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-493	Madam President, I would like I very much welcome the fact that, in his second speech, the Minister clearly stated that the Government intends to review the Social Services Act and that, as the Moderates have requested, it will be a complete review of the legislation. The Minister also said that the legislation is fine in its ambition, and we fully agree on that. The challenge will be to create effective legislation and a functioning social service in practice. I can see that it is good that there are now more tools for municipalities, more forms of housing. I welcome the possibility of investing in, for example, assisted housing. A specific question there is: how many support housing have been created since 1 January, and how many children have been placed in that housing form? It is now very important, Madam President, that the overall review of the Social Services Act focuses on the many challenges, problems and shortcomings that we face and that it is based on the situation that we have in Sweden today and the challenges that we will have continued and future. I am a little concerned when I hear that the Government, as well as the government as a whole, seems to be of the opinion that the refugee crisis is over. Let's get back to normal. It was a temporary challenge last autumn. Now it's all about peace and joy again. I don't think that's a correct description. During the autumn, Sweden had an exceptional reception of refugees. We still have a great reception, and the war in Syria is unfortunately not over. It is a terrible war that is still going on and will drive a huge number of millions of people on the run, and it will affect Sweden and Swedish social services. I appeal to the government to face up to the problem and to implement the measures necessary to ensure that people come to work but also that we get a well-functioning social service. Thank you for a good debate!
i-93c644e6330edb5c-500	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the interest! I think the more people get involved, the better it gets. We need to work together on the future of children, and we need to work together on the unaccompanied children who come to Sweden. The fact is that the research we have – which has been done on far fewer individuals, which was necessary because there have never been so many at once – shows that many of them are stable individuals who have great ambitions and good results in studies and in the labour market. My ambition, my goal, is that these children should be included in it. They will do well, and we all have a responsibility for that. Then it will be good for them, and it will be good for Sweden. I, too, am the Minister for the Elderly, know how much we need from labour market participation, strong pension systems, people working in the care of the elderly and so on. It has emerged both in this debate and in the past that social care for children and young people was fragile when the government took over and that the large reception of refugees made the situation even more strained. I told you earlier, things aren't cool. The situation is still strained. However, it makes a difference when children are not received every day at the station to the same extent as in the autumn. I go around daily talking to social services all day long because I want this to work, and they say to me: Now we have time to do the investigations that we should have done before. I foresee that during this year we will see needs that are greater than we have seen before in terms of health care and dental care. Schools will be more in focus because they take on the investigations and the needs of children more now, simply because they can. I would like to conclude by thanking everyone who works in social services and on these issues – and also with other children, we should remember, because it is a very important job.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-507	Madam President, I would like Christina Örnebjär has asked me how I view SKL's proposal to circumvent the authority requirements. Christina Örnebjär has also asked me if I believe that more or fewer people will want to work as a sociologist, especially in social care for children and young people, if the eligibility requirements are removed. Furthermore, I have been asked whether I believe there is a shortage of sociologists and whether I intend to safeguard the regulation of competences. Initially, I would like to point out that the requirements for eligibility to perform certain tasks in social care for children and young people were introduced in 2014 as part of ensuring the quality of support for vulnerable children. It is also a way of strengthening the social secretarial profession. I think it is important to have high skills requirements, both because it is a qualified job and to increase the status of the profession and activity. In accordance with the preparatory work for the law, the government also does not want to exclude other professions that can add valuable skills to the social care of children and young people and complement socionomies. In Sweden's Municipalities and County Council's letter on the need for regulatory simplifications due to the refugee situation, it is stated that SKL is in favour of current legislation. However, SKL wishes to obtain an exemption by temporary derogation of five years from the requirement for a degree in social sciences or other equivalent degrees. SKL does not advocate permanent change. The National Board of Health and Welfare has the Government's mission to review the consequences of the regulation of competence and the possibilities for non-competent personnel to become eligible. The assignment will be presented on 31 May 2016. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's analysis will be an important basis for considering whether any initiatives are needed from the government. As far as the question of a shortage of socio-economicists is concerned, I have no indication that this is the case. I know that the socio-economic programme is a sought-after generalist education, and today there are many options for a well-trained socio-economicist. Municipalities have had difficulties recruiting for a long time, but also to retain competent employees. Local authorities therefore need to ensure that they are attractive employers. In this context, I would like to highlight the work done locally and regionally to make the profession more attractive and thus to improve the quality of children and young people who need support from social services. In order to strengthen municipalities in the process of recruiting and maintaining social security secretaries, the Government has taken a number of measures, including support for career introduction and access to further training. The Government also implements, after agreement with the Left Party, an investment in staffing and competence in social care for children and young people of 250 million per year during 2016 – 2019.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-514	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to my questions is that there have been proposals from several quarters for a reduction in the eligibility requirements for those working in social care for children and young people. For example, SKL has put forward proposals to abolish the degree of socionomie or other equivalent education and to have staff with the appropriate skills and experience. Madam President, I would like Let us imagine that we would lower the training requirements of doctors because there is a shortage of doctors. The person who is going to operate on your child is not a licensed surgeon but is a good general practitioner, has been in the care for a long time, has seen how others have done and is nice. Would Mrs. Talma accept that? Would you let the person, no matter how competent he is in his own field, put the scalpel in the most dear thing you have? I don't think so. The reasoning sounds crazy. Of course, surgeons should have the right skills. But for some reason it is quite normal to think that way in other professions. The teachers, supervisors and leisure educators have already experienced that their professions have been reduced to something that virtually anyone can handle. Now it is time for social care for children and young people. Thousands of decisions are made in the field of social services every day that concern the most vulnerable. It's about their life and their future. Of course, when so many decisions are made, mistakes will happen. Our task must be to provide the conditions for minimising mistakes. In many places the conditions are lacking. It's about too much workload. It's a high staff turnover. A January 2015 survey found that 73 percent, if I am not mistaken, of those who work want to go somewhere else. There will be new tasks without reinforcement of staff. It's inefficient IT systems. On the other hand, we feel that again from several quarters. These are administrative requirements that take time from client work. As little as 15 percent of the time is spent on the client's meeting. There is one missing from specialist training, there is too little resources for supervision and so on. There is also a previous survey showing that one in three administrators is newly employed, and seven out of ten supervisors have been employed for less than three years. It is not uncommon for newly graduated sociologists without work experience to take responsibility for very complicated child care matters. Today, if you start studying to become a social worker right after high school, after three and a half years of studying at 22 years of age, you will have no work experience and will make life decisions for children, young people and their families. In addition, the training has changed to less internships. Previously, it was internship semester three. That's where you went most of the time. Then they had internship semester six. Then you had to take more responsibility. Today it's less than a semester's internship. It has gone from about a third of internships to about 10%. It's uneasy among the socionomists right now. SKL's recommendation to abolish the qualification requirements naturally creates concern among those who work, those who train and those who are affected. However, they are not heard in the same way as they have neither the space nor the voice. The competence requirement was created to ensure quality and legal certainty in the exercise of public authority. It is absolutely right to relieve social secretaries of various types of tasks that do not require higher education. I can imagine some kind of assistant. What we call them is less important. The problem with temporary and temporary measures is that they tend to become permanent, which is why I am concerned about the proposal. It is one thing to wait for evidence, but I still wonder how the Government takes a position on SKL's recommendations and whether the Government will safeguard the regulation of competences.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-525	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Christina for her commitment to the issues. We're waiting for a file. The point of ordering such is to have time to think through and analyse questions. That is why I cannot anticipate the conclusions. I very much agree with the analysis that this is another female-dominated profession, in this case an academic profession with a long education. But the conditions that most often follow with male-dominated academic professions do not follow here. It is often a difficult work situation. Many young sociologists know that. There is an advantage over other professions, namely that many still choose socio-economic education. It is a popular education, and many graduate each year. But they do not choose primarily, or necessarily, the social care of children and young people because they know that many stop quickly. We know from studies that they often get the heaviest cases in the most difficult areas quickly. They may not have access to senior tutoring. In many places, people have not worked long enough to provide such a guide. In this discussion, it is important not only to focus on unaccompanied minors but to look at the fact that all children who need to turn to the social care system are responsible. Let us look at this from the point of view of the individuals. They are interested in social work. That's why they choose to become socionomists. The state also invests in education. That is why there is a great point in making workplaces attractive and in upgrading the extremely important tasks that society needs and that children need. The government has a national coordinator who travels around 50 municipalities and looks at how social child and youth care works. She also makes a number of suggestions on how to improve working methods and modernise routines, and she listens to people who work there – preferably women – and puts the child in focus. Many of those who go there want that. I think the honourable Member hears where it is leaning. I think it is important to take advantage of the skills that sociologists bring with them. I would like to come back to exactly how to deal with the emergency situation, but I think it is important that sociologists are used for what they are trained for for all the reasons I have just mentioned. I also believe that, for various reasons, it is appropriate and sensible to facilitate some form of administrative support so that, here too, it is possible to refine what social secretaries and socionomists do when they work in social care for children and young people. We have also taken measures for staffing. It is about 250 million SEK a year, except for the 10 billion that each year goes to the municipalities, which I assume will also benefit the social welfare services for children and young people. We have taken steps with regard to introductions. I know that many workplaces are trying to organise themselves so that there is better supervision and introduction for new employees and can thus organise so that the more senior socionomists get more interesting jobs in the sense that they get senior jobs. There are various examples of how to work on these issues.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-536	Mr President, I would like to One of my questions was whether you think there is a shortage of sociologists. It sounds like that many times in the debate. I have heard several – but not the Government – who point out that more socionomics need to be educated. The problem is that they exist but do not want to work in the municipalities. It's not an attractive employer. I do not believe that the proposals to reduce competence requirements directly make work more attractive. When staff turnover is as high as it is today, experience and knowledge disappear. It's needed. The problem arises when you say that education is not needed to work here. It is not an employer that the staff want. We Liberals have proposed research schools for socionomic professionals as part of their development. There was an agreement with SKL between 2011 and 2015 to strengthen evidence-based practice. That is something that would really need to continue. It is a small part of working socionomists who continue in some type of doctoral education. The public sector really needs more research – not less. As has been said here, social services work with the most needy. I can't remember just mentioning unaccompanied people. It's about everyone. It is also a question of substance abuse treatment. It's a large area. This is a kind of welfare society's last outpost and a guarantee of humane care for society's most vulnerable. What happens when social services fail their mission? What happens when social secretaries are no longer able or unable to do so when they do not have the skills? They testify daily, as the Government has said, to an untenable situation. Threats and violence are also a problem. You need to feel safe in your professional practice and feel: I'm on my feet and know what I'm doing. The decision I have made is based on evidence, and I can stand for it. In Ljusnarsberg in my own county, where all social secretaries except those who work with unaccompanied minors quit, it is precisely the lack of competence development that we see. Many have paid attention to these developments. And the government has made proposals. But that is far from enough, for what are the signals that we send to those who train when we want to lower the standards? We wouldn't do that to cops. We would not lower the requirements for doctors, even though there is a shortage of doctors. My question will be how the government sees this. Does the Government think that there will be more or fewer people seeking social care for children and young people when there are signals that we are going to lower the standards, that we do not think that we need as much education here?
i-93c644e6330edb5c-544	Mr President, I would like to I don't want to send those signals. I think this is a very important area. For me who is responsible for these issues in the government, it is an absolute goal that I should contribute to really strengthening this business, both for those who work there and, above all, perhaps for children's rights, because these are the ones to focus on. The fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes a law is, I believe, another factor that gives more attention to children. We know from the national coordinator's studies that if a matter is about children, 15 minutes of the working day are spent talking to the child itself. I don't mean it's supposed to be six out of eight hours, but it seems very little to really find out what the child himself thinks should happen. I want this to be attractive workplaces. Ljusnarsberg is an interesting example. I was the one who brought the issue of unaccompanied minors into the debate, and we had an earlier debate here that was just about them. Sometimes you focus a lot on them. I just want to say that social care for children and young people must be for all children. And the children who are in Sweden, whether they have refugee background or not, should know that if something happens, they can turn there. Similarly, it must be possible to take care of unaccompanied refugee children. In Ljusnarsberg, those who worked on the basic assignment, the reports of concern, obviously thought it was too heavy. I have heard that in many places it may be more interesting to work with unaccompanied minors, and it is easier to recruit there. No shadow over it, but what does the exchange of knowledge look like? What is it that makes you think that here I want to work, that this is exciting to me? I also believe that Sweden will have a national competence in the reception of unaccompanied minors that we will be proud of when we have completed this mission. I don't want to lower the skills requirements, I think I'll be heard, but I'd like to wait for the report. And I have a responsibility to deal with the emergency as well. When it comes to strengthening social care for children and young people at all, I think that the efforts we are making in the short term to cope with the emergency situation must be good building blocks in order to have better social care for children and young people in the long term than we had when we entered this situation. I think we can work together on that. In this construction, I really believe that the building blocks of competence, attractive workplaces, the upgrading of women's work and the upgrading of children's voice are all important in order to achieve that goal.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-551	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I am very pleased that the Government is so clearly sending the signal that she does not want to lower the requirements for education. I think it is important that it comes from here, because those who seek out or are visited by social services are often in an incredibly vulnerable situation, and that requires competence, experience and a sense of fingertip. It's not a job for anyone. There are few professions that are so incredibly complex and where you take so much responsibility and do as much interference in people's lives as work with the exercise of authority in the social care of children and young people. As I said, the decisions made can be absolutely vital for children and young people and their families. I am genuinely concerned when I hear from several quarters that you do not think it is so important with educational background, so I am very happy with the signals that the Government is sending. We need both theoretically knowledgeable and practically courageous sociologists. It's a tough job. They must feel secure in their skills and have the opportunity to develop in order to ensure that those seeking social care for children and young people feel that they receive the best treatment and are safe in the measures they take. I would really like it if, instead of signaling a reduction in skills requirements, it were said that it wanted to develop the municipalities as an employer, which I also hear here. I am sure that this could be made even clearer, because higher wages are needed. But much more is needed, namely development opportunities, skills development and an employer who believes in and invests in one. Lower skill requirements signal the exact opposite. As obvious as having a trained surgeon take care of your children, it should be that they are qualified staff in child care and youth care. With this, I would like to thank you for this debate. I am sure that we will have reason to come back to this issue, if nothing else, when the report is ready. Thank you very much.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-556	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Örnebjär! It has been a good debate on these issues that brings us forward. I also look forward to the report and its conclusions. Finally, I think that social care for children and young people is one of the most important elements of the welfare society that I want to contribute to building and supporting. As in the previous debate, I would really like to thank those who work in social care for doing such a huge job, sometimes under very difficult circumstances. I want to contribute in my own way to what I can, without depriving municipalities of their responsibilities as municipalities and employers, to making social care for children and young people an attractive place to work, but above all to give children the rights and protection they need, whatever their background.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-558	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me whether I would like to start a debate with the Spring Bill on the scope of the future public commitment to welfare services and on the possibility of funding them more than today with alternative sources than taxes. She has also asked me about the value of the long-term development scenarios in the spring bill, with unrealisticly optimistic assumptions in her view, and whether it would not have been more interesting and more relevant to start with more realistic assumptions and instead devote more space to problem-solving and analysing the conclusions and discussing the individual's responsibilities and the future problems that we are presenting today with open eyes to the decision-makers of the future. Finally, she asks me if I have thoughts and ideas about measures for how we can manage long-term sustainable financing of welfare in Sweden, because in her opinion we get a more likely unsustainable development. The debate on the scope and design of the public sector is ongoing, and here the spring proposal is clear that, unlike previous governments, we give priority to investment in education, welfare and the fight against unemployment before major unfunded tax cuts. The long-term scenarios in the spring bill are made in the same way as under the previous government. The aim is to identify future challenges in good time and assess whether the current fiscal stance can be expected to be sustainable in the long term. As the scenarios are based on assumptions for a very long time horizon, they are subject to great uncertainty. Perhaps the primary value of the scenarios is to give an indication of whether fiscal policy has become more or less sustainable compared to previous assessments. I note that the result in this case is that the sustainability of fiscal policy is slightly better than in the 2015 spring bill. Unlike Anette Åkesson, I make the assessment that it is possible to finance a well-developed public welfare sector in the future. With the Swedish model as a basis and modernisation as a tool, we build a sustainable society where no one is left behind and no one is held back.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-564	Mr President, I would like to At first, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers. It is undeniably interesting that Magdalena Andersson gives the impression that I would somehow be alone in my concerns about the long-term financing of welfare. Rather, it is the attitude of most people involved in these matters. During the days, the referrals from two heavy referral bodies have been received by the Ministry of Finance regarding the Long-term investigation, the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and Svensk Försäkrings respectively. I quote from Mr SKL's response: a crucial problem with the investigation is that, despite statements to the contrary, one chooses to ignore in the calculations the increased demands that rising expectations can bring. The financing problem that the long-term investigation is trying to solve is therefore slightly less than if the investigation in its projections had instead been based on a cost development that was more consistent with the historical one. ..................................................... Svensk Försäkring (Swedish Insurance) writes:中 We ask ourselves why the investigation has chosen to base itself on the unchanged ambition of the publicly funded welfare services in its calculations. To illustrate the effects at the unchanged level of ambition may seem strange given that it is well known that the cost increase since 1980 is on average 1 percentage point beyond what is explained by demographic development. The study therefore tends to underestimate the cost pressures that welfare systems will face in the future. ..................................................... Furthermore, it is worth recalling that the current government is presenting budgets that will run deficits throughout its term of office – and this during a boom. The fact that loan financing operations can be understood by anyone will further burden future generations. Those who are young now and future generations will already have a greater dependency burden without having to finance the operation for us today. Overall, the ageing population itself is not the direct challenge. But since we have not been content with the same level of ambition in the past, it is directly irresponsible for us as politicians today not to take account of the fact that this will hardly be the case in the future either. Moreover, the fact that a smaller proportion of people have to bear the burden of livelihood, combined with the fact that they are also burdened with interest costs and repayments due to the fact that a Social Democratic-led government is presenting a budget with loan-financed operations in the middle of a boom while, at the same time, reducing incentives to work and coldly taking into account the exclusion of barely 1 million people in a few years' time is a scandal. Had today's politicians been held accountable to the next generation, not only would the Alliance have had a clear line of work. So it is not only I who question that the government is identifying future challenges in good time.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-572	Mr President, I would like to If this is a particularly irresponsible way of counting, that criticism must also be addressed to my predecessor and the moderate-led government, because we use the same method in the Long-term investigation to make these calculations that were used during the alliance years. And it is based on unchanged policy. What distinguishes this government from previous alliance governments, however, is that we do not implement major loan-financed tax cuts. Of course, continuing to reduce the tax in the way that the Moderates want to, does not create long-term funding for welfare. When it comes to securing long-term financing, the moderate policy of large unfunded tax cuts and using tax evasion as the main means of combating tax evasion is not a viable way forward. Instead, it is about creating the conditions for work and entrepreneurship, as this government does. It is about creating a society in which all people have the opportunity to grow, develop and participate in the world of work. It is about creating good preschools, schools and educational opportunities so that our young people can enter the labour market. Additional education is needed when you are an adult, so that you can retrain if you lose your job. It is about good and stable conditions for our business community, the ability to find the right workforce when recruiting, the ability to have well-functioning transport and the possibility of housing so that the staff you recruit can move. All of this is taken care of by the government. It is also a question of creating stable funding for welfare. This is something the government does by strengthening tax revenues, by actively combating tax evasion and, above all, by ensuring that more people have the opportunity to work.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-580	Mr President, I would like to Surely the Minister of Finance has to admit that one should start from the latest known knowledge. It is not possible to blame the Alliance Government for not taking into account what is last known. When Magdalena Andersson claims that the government prioritises education and welfare, I am a little surprised. Does the Minister of Finance not know that the government is cutting resources in these areas? I did not get an answer to the question about the Minister of Finance, as I interpret the text of the spring bill, opening up for discussion about a reduction in public commitment – that is, what the government prioritises away, not what the government prioritises. It would be really interesting to get answers and not a day too soon. The Minister of Finance has misunderstood me. I am certainly not as optimistic as Magdalena Andersson, who seems to believe that the long-term financing of welfare will resolve itself without problems. I think it's going to work out, but it's going to be a tough trip. The question is how it will be done. There is no doubt that the public commitment will need to be reviewed. The sooner it's done, the better. Households will have more resources than today, so it does not necessarily have to be controversial. With the option of sticking one's head in the sand, which the Minister of Finance seems to be dealing with, urgent action will be needed in crisis situations. It won't benefit anyone, at least those who are weakest in society. The Swedish people have the right to receive information in good time, so that you can set yourself up to have to take a partly greater responsibility yourself. It is true that digitalisation will also contribute, at best with both better quality and lower costs for welfare services. But digitalisation will also cost jobs. It is therefore urgent that we ensure politically that good conditions are created for new jobs to be created. Otherwise, what is meant by this passage in the spring bill? Moreover, increased demand for welfare services does not necessarily mean that services must be financed through taxes. A privately funded welfare sector has emerged in recent years and opportunities for individuals to pay for certain welfare services themselves have increased. " Is that not opening up to review the scope of the public commitment? What does the Minister of Finance think should be given priority away from tax-funded activities? Why do you not report the most likely development in the spring bill's highly interesting chapter. 10 on the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy, rather than repeatedly noting that the most likely developments are not reported?
i-93c644e6330edb5c-591	Mr President, I would like to Let me correct Anette Åkesson. The government is not cutting down on education. On the contrary, we are investing in education at all levels. We have increased resources for preschool, school, komvux, vocational adult, folk high school, university of applied sciences and universities. In addition, we are investing heavily in teacher's salaries. We are carrying out very extensive training efforts, such as another 50 000 matching and training efforts this year alone. Anette Åkesson says that we do not start from the latest known knowledge, but there is no knowledge now of how public consumption has increased that did not exist before when the Ministry of Finance used this method. It is the same method that we also use when we present the budget proposal, that is to say that we are based on unchanged policies. That's the way we count in the Ministry of Finance. I am not unconcerned about the future and future developments. It is extremely important that we ensure the future financing of the public sector. There is one way that it should not be done, and that is to implement major unfunded tax cuts. That is the essence of Moderate politics, and we saw that eight years off in the Alliance government. Now we see further proposals for tax cuts, but that is not how we fund our common welfare.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-594	Mr President, I would like to If tax cuts are a means of getting more hours worked, it may be justified to reduce taxes. It is even necessary in Sweden, which has the world's highest tax burden. Sweden has a surprisingly irresponsible government. Presenting a budget that points to 1 million people in exclusion and borrowing into operation in the midst of a boom and thus burdening future generations, which will already be burdened by an increased dependency burden, with additional interest costs and repayments, and at the same time not even ensuring that there is realistic evidence in the long-term calculations that are taken as a starting point is irresponsible. The systematic underestimation of future population development costs, which will have a decisive impact on costs, especially for our welfare systems, in addition to the uncertainty inherent in long-term horizons, is unserious. And they do so despite the fact that the Social Democrats too must be well aware of the challenge of the ageing population in the long term. It is to fool the Swedish people, both young and old. The government raises the issue of alternative financing of welfare cautiously, with an indication in the spring bill that some welfare may need to be financed differently from tax. I respect that. But then it does not stand for it, as we are now seeing in the debate today. Not seriously addressing the important issues of the long-term financing of welfare is turning a blind eye to those who will be weak in the society of the future. And that applies regardless of the major short-term challenges that we now have when it comes to integrating new Swedes. These challenges may even contribute to the particular urgency of starting from a more accurate basis in the long-term calculations, as the burden on young people in the future will otherwise increase further.
i-93c644e6330edb5c-599	Mr President, I would like to I do not share Anette Åkesson's view that it is unrealistic to start from the politics that lie ahead, namely the politics that we now have, because everything else is active decisions. On the day when an active decision is taken to increase welfare spending, it is also, of course, ensured that there is secure funding for it, at least if you are a social democratic-led government. We have seen through the ages which governments run public finances. It is the governments that care about welfare. It is Social-Democratic governments that repeatedly ensure order in what moderate-led governments leave behind. This was also the case this time. After 140 billion in unfunded tax cuts, deficits were not sustainable, but we had to step in and take responsibility for public finances, bring deficits down and stop Moderate policies with unfunded tax cuts, cuts and privatisations. This is exactly what we have done. At the same time, it is important to have a serious debate on how to finance welfare in the future. It is for us, too, and there the government's policy for more people to get into work will be absolutely fundamental in order to finance welfare in the future. The government's target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU is an important instrument for this. There we hear a lot of criticism from the Moderates, who do not think that ambitious targets should be set for the area of employment. There is a difference in policy. But above all: If you want to protect the secure financing of welfare, Anette Åkesson should primarily warn for herself, for it is Moderate tax policy that is the major threat to Swedish welfare and the Swedish model.
