i-VLythpL7MXYtnKYMPURF2E	Mr President, I would like to Good morning! Sweden is facing a difficult and big task. In recent years, many people, more than ever, have come here. They are waiting for asylum or have just been granted a residence permit. Even before they arrived, integration worked quite poorly. It takes far too long to get your first job. We know that there is a great alienation in many districts around Sweden. In 2008, we had 105 districts where fewer than 50 per cent worked. When we had the same survey just a few months ago, it became clear that 130 districts now have a great alienation. If we do exactly as we have always done, things will go bad. If integration is to work better today and tomorrow than it did yesterday, strong reforms are needed. Today we are debating the report on equality and the establishment of newcomers. One could actually say that this is an integration debate. A government that has had two years and two months can be expected to present proposals for strong reforms to the Riksdag. Otherwise, what I said will go bad. What does Sweden need right now? Let me mention three areas where I see that we need strong reforms. First of all, it requires that every person who comes to Sweden does more to be employable. There is a high level of division in the labour market. For highly educated people who are indigenous, unemployment is 3%. For low-skilled people born abroad, unemployment stands at 33%. That gap needs to be narrowed. Then individuals have a great responsibility to make themselves employable and to do all you can to become such. This applies whether you were born in Kabul, Bjuv or Dorotea. But people also need tools to be able to become employable. We need to tighten up and improve our vocational training systems, make them more effective. In this budget, for example, we propose that 250 million should go to encouraging municipalities next year in terms of finding combined training courses. There you read the Swedish language and get a vocational education at the same time. More must therefore be done by the individual, but more opportunities must also be given to become employable. That's the first thing. Secondly, there must also be more ways into work. I believe that all parties in the Riksdag understand that education is incredibly central for more people to be able to become employable. But that will not be enough. Anyone who believes that education and training will solve integration problems in the future is completely out of place. More will be needed: simple jobs and more pathways into the labour market. We present in this budget a first job position. It is simply an apprenticeship, where you learn the job at work. It can also be used by employers who do not have collective agreements. It shall be governed by law. We are presenting in this budget something that the government should have done a long time ago: simplified wage subsidies. Merge eight supports into one! It will then be easy for the employer to use. It'll be easy for Arbetsförmedlingen. And it will above all give increased chances of jobs. Thirdly, changes and reforms are needed in another area. It's about making it more profitable to work. If we are to break benefit dependency in Sweden, it must pay even more to move from grants to work. It looks different to different individuals. But for many, especially families, in exclusion areas it is not worth taking a job. The subsidies are so high. For example, we are proposing a premium ceiling, and we are proposing increased demands and activity from those who are receiving something from the common. There are three important areas in which reforms are needed and which shine with their absence in the government bill. My last little bit I would like to use on another important issue, which is related to this. But I'll change my focus a little. My grandmother was born in 1892. Her name was Fanny. She was born in Uppland. My grandmother was born ten years later. The two women had to work very hard. And when they were born, we didn't even have universal suffrage. Two generations after my grandmother and grandmother, a lot has happened. It is amazing what many gains, how many wars, have been won in the field of gender equality. But there are many wars left to be won, many fields left to conquer, in the field of equality. Above all, there is a risk that we will lose the lead and the profits that have been won. Generations before us and different parties have fought to achieve the great equality we have. The risk of losing it is there as long as we have moral policemen in some suburbs. I meet girls who raise their hands in a classroom when I ask who can't marry who they want here? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I meet women in sheltered accommodations that live under women's oppression in different ways. Or it's just a woman who can't read SFI, because her husband doesn't want her to. We still have some wars to fight. And we must ensure that we do not lose the equality that we have achieved. We need more women in Swedish companies, at the top level. But it's not about that. If you do not see that the biggest and most important fight we have to take in the future is about foreign-born women being isolated, then you do not see real social problems. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the government would rather fight for quotas on company boards and a gender equality authority than focus on all the important issues that affect women who are not even allowed to participate in gender equality.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-22	Mr President, I would like to I have two relatively simple questions for Elisabeth Svantesson. Recently, we have seen almost daily Moderates, linked to the two former alliance governments, who have distanced themselves from the migration agreement with the Green Party and the migration policy that was pursued over eight years. It honors them. It's welcome. Do you reject the policy of integration pursued by the Moderates and the Alliance Government for eight years? It led to more exclusion areas, made alienation worse and weakened new arrivals' opportunities to enter Swedish society. Or do you think it worked?
i-FSduvvkYiU9EsRQfNaU3de	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström! I don't think you've followed the debate. There are, of course, things that we should have done much better – I have said that many times since 2014 – even in the area of integration. However, many people born abroad got jobs during the previous term of office and the previous term of office. It was a force factor. That's because we reduced subsidies. That's because we reduced the tax on those who earn the least. It is a policy that the Swedish Democrats have never tried. But I can recommend it. It's a success. When you read your budget, you see that you are going another way. You're a big fan of increased contributions. But there was a lot that we didn't do and that we don't talk about. That is why I am calling for the government to highlight reforms in areas where we actually highlight very clear reforms, from continuing to make it more profitable to work to a subsidy ceiling. We also propose measures to enable people to enter the labour market, i.e. lower thresholds. Read our budget and you will see that we have tightened up and changed our integration policy! It's necessary if more people are going to get into work.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-30	Mr President, I would like to The main feature of the Moderate and former Alliance government in bringing new arrivals to the labour market has been reduced thresholds – I also expected you to bring it up in the line – and easier jobs. Lower thresholds for jobs often mean lower entry wages, almost always lower entry wages, and perhaps even lower wages in the long term. How low are the wages to be? You've tried it. The entry-level jobs resulted in a discount of 85 percent. It has not only been a failed reform, which continued with the new government, in that it creates very few lasting jobs. There are also few employers who want to make use of entry-level jobs at all, although they have had a salary subsidy of 85 per cent. That is why I ask again: how low should the thresholds be, Elisabeth Svantesson?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-33	Mr President, I would like to Regardless of where you were born and if you are far from the labour market you may need a lowered threshold. The Swedish labour market has high thresholds. The parties have a great responsibility to lower these thresholds, I believe that many parties here in Parliament agree on this. Policies can also contribute to lower thresholds wherever you are born and if you are far removed from the labour market. We have a concrete proposal to simplify wage support. There is a jungle of support, so they are hard to exploit. It is one way, but it will also need more simple jobs. For example, more apprenticeships are needed. It does not always have to be a simple job, but there are good conditions for apprenticeships to exist in a market where lower qualifications are required. We have concrete proposals for people to enter the labour market. We will never have a policy that leaves people out of it. In the Swedish Democrats' budget, there is not much focus on everyone entering the labour market. We want those who have a high level of education to come in much faster, but we need to do more, above all, for those who have a low level of education. If you listened carefully to my speech, you heard me say that people also have to make more effort to make themselves employable. It's incredibly important. We have had a care policy in Sweden for far too long. I do not know how many times I have heard that people should take care of immigrants who come to Sweden. I believe that we should give people the conditions and make demands on everyone in our country to contribute and do the right thing.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-39	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Today we are debating the state's spending category 13 Gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants – what was previously called integration. According to us Swedish Democrats, politics in these areas is about equal treatment, i.e. that neither gender, origin nor other background should affect how a person is perceived and treated. It is also self-evident to us that this must be the basis on which political reforms and efforts rest. We do not stand up for the integration policy that has been in place for decades. It has been an obvious failure and in many cases counterproductive policy where, for example, state funds go to associations based on ethnicity or government initiatives that only those born outside Sweden can take part in. It is a failed identity policy that has long since come to an end. We can read almost daily about politicians who are praying and rejecting the previous migration policy. But integration policy continues in the same, old, failed tracks with more discrimination, more identity policy, more billions of failed integration projects, despite decades of failure, despite ever clearer – yes, in many cases overexplicit – signs that the total failure of integration policy is at hand. Instead, our policy is based on the creation of a society for all citizens, in which those who come to our country are also expected, and thus given the opportunity, to become part of our society. The reforms that we implement in other areas – efforts for a well-functioning labour market, a strengthened well-being and a thriving business sector – benefit all residents and build a cohesive Sweden. The government's understanding that segregation must be broken is welcome, but, at the same time, we believe that this work is mainly characterised by investments in other areas of expenditure, we reject the government's proposal for a new allocation 4:1 Measures to combat segregation. On the contrary, we do not think that measures against segregation are good, but want to take them in other areas. Mr President, I would like to In our Sweden, it is self-evident that all citizens feel part of society, so we propose reforms aimed at strengthening the cultural kitt of society and the cohesive role of culture. These efforts can be found, inter alia, in Category 17. The Swedish Democrats are also making cuts in the appropriations for discrimination. We want the Ombudsman for Discrimination to be dismissed. DO has developed into a special policy opinion-forming authority and its main mission, to help those who need legal aid in disputes, are characterised by legal uncertainty and unequal power. In the draft budget, the Swedish Democrats present broad initiatives for equality between women and men. These measures address the problems affecting men and women to varying degrees in the workplace, in public spaces or at home. As we address the problems in substance, the investments also fall under other areas of expenditure. We welcome the government's permanent addition to women's shelters of SEK 100 million, but we choose to fold 50 million of these to specific work with emergency services for people who have been subjected to honour-related violence and repression. In addition, we add an additional SEK 50 million to the grant for special initiatives for women's peace. We Swedish democrats also say no to the gender equality agency proposed by the government. However, this issue will be debated more at the beginning of next year in this House in conjunction with another report. Furthermore, we propose that a new allocation, social orientation and support for the reception of quota refugees, be added to the state budget under Category 13. The Swedish Democrats advocate a refugee policy in which quota refugees through UNHCR should be given priority. In practice, the party's goal is for refugee assistance to take place in the immediate area and for the reception of refugees in Sweden to be carried out exclusively through the UNHCR resettlement system. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by highlighting an issue that is actually part of another policy area, but which will fundamentally change and worsen the establishment and integration of new arrivals for a very long time to come. I am talking about the construction of the new invention modular house and so-called trailer parks in Sweden. As far as I understand it, the government has done nothing to stop the Tokerians. The red-green government is reinventing the stratums almost a century after they disappeared. Do you not understand the extent of what you decide? Don't you see that class marker – to speak your own language – and that vulnerability? With the government's modular house and trailer parks, we will in future see a segregation, misery and abandonment that we have not come into contact with in over a century in this country. Temporary is the fashion word for the day. They say: We cannot afford and time to build properly now, but a little later in the boom. Despite record government borrowings, we cannot build now. But then, in the future, we'll build. It is a fundamental betrayal without precedent. There will, of course, be neither more resources nor opportunities to build real permanent dwellings later. On the contrary, all the forecasts indicate that we are moving towards very strained conditions both for the public and for the private. What was meant as temporary housing for a few years for some of society's most vulnerable groups will remain, not only in 10 years' time or in 20 years' time. They'll be there in 30 and 40 years. There, generations of new inhabitants will grow up in an alienation that we can only imagine today. And it's your fault. Shame!
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-66	Mr President, I would like to Many people come to Sweden for work, study, love or protection. I'm proud of that. With better functioning integration and establishment policies, it would be both simpler and much better for all – for well-managed migration means skills provision. In addition, it strengthens trade and contributes with a variety of perspectives and different backgrounds in workplaces, training and start-ups. Recent times have shown that Sweden's reception capacity has clear shortcomings. The establishment doesn't work well. Many born abroad go without work, education and housing. It takes too long to become part of society, and the systems that surround migration and establishment have been allowed to swell. It's complicated, and it's costing. Sweden needs a policy of integration that sees problems but also seeks solutions. The Center Party does not believe that the solution is closed borders. Nor do we believe that the challenges are impossible. The Center Party wants to reform the labour market, strengthen education, develop validation, increase housing construction and change the systems so that there is less hassle, bureaucracy and costs. We need to take advantage of the will and ability of municipalities to contribute to effective establishment. There is no shortage of challenges. On the other hand, there is no willingness to implement the necessary reforms. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market is divided into two parts. In particular, newcomers and those with short education are more unemployed than others. Sweden also has the EU's lowest share of easy jobs. These two phenomena – the difficulties for newcomers and those with short training to get a foothold in the labour market and the lack of simple jobs – are interrelated. The threshold for the first job is too high. There are bureaucratic obstacles today to the settlement of salary payments and the organisation of work permits. It's all for nothing. More people could get a job or a traineeship already during the asylum period. We want to open up the possibility of salary payments to the card on which the daily allowance is paid, and work permits shall be valid from day one unless otherwise decided. The Center wants to introduce more generous rules from day one for track change, based on the principle that the person who has a job should be able to stay. This allows asylum seekers to remain as labour migrants during the asylum process. This would reduce the pressure on the Migration Agency and be a faster way into society. Although lowering thresholds for work, entrepreneurship and new jobs is one of the most important things, it will not be enough. Of course, extensive efforts are needed to increase the knowledge and competence required in the Swedish labour market. Basic education with increased social orientation, parenting training and health examinations should be introduced early into the asylum process. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is behind the deal that was concluded last October. We are happy to participate in discussions on broad agreements to strengthen reception capacity and improve integration, shorten processing times and reduce the costs of maintaining transparency in a sustainable way. Sweden needs it. Mr President, I would like to With regard to gender equality in Category 13, the Center Party rejects the Government's proposal for a national strategy against honour-related violence. However, the work against honour-related violence and violence against women is a priority. In other areas of expenditure, the Center Party has set aside funds for its efforts. We propose an education aimed at courts, police and prosecutors on how to counteract honorary culture and an investment in so-called security millions. We also want to see an honorary commission set up. It will produce facts and evidence about honour-related crimes, and we will open the way for penalties for crimes with honorary motives. The Center Party believes that the work on gender equality should continue to be integrated into all government agencies. However, in order for it to be implemented more effectively, we want the mandates for support, methodological development, exchange of experience, achievement of objectives and follow-up in the field of gender equality to be brought together under an existing authority in order to avoid an unclear responsibility that risks falling between the chairs. The Center Party therefore does not want to introduce a completely new authority, as the government proposes. It takes time to build up expertise and to establish collaboration and networks between authorities. In the run-up to the forthcoming strategy against violence against women, there is therefore reason for the government to take advantage of the skills, forms of collaboration and structures for the dissemination of knowledge that have been built up in existing organisations over the past ten years. What the government is now proposing to establish a new authority will mean that the work that has been built up for a long time and that is going on around the country will be broken down. What if and do the right thing? Mr President, I would like to Economic inequality is an important focus of the Center Party. We see a clear need to strengthen the conditions for women's entrepreneurship. Government policies hamper entrepreneurship in general and, more importantly, women's entrepreneurship in particular. Ultimately, it creates less opportunities for women's economic power and freedom. In order to create more equal power structures in society, more women need to be given the opportunity to start and run businesses. In addition to its responsibilities, its development and its freedom, its own company also creates paths to other board assignments in other companies. You start in an industry that you know well and in the long run it can lead to new companies and board assignments in other industries. The Center Party therefore wants to strengthen women's opportunities to start up and run businesses and to enable more women to take up leading positions in the business world. For a number of reasons, the Center Party believes that in the work on gender equality policy objectives, entrepreneurship issues must have a clearer impact. Mr President, I would like to For those who live in fear of threats and violence, life space shrinks by day. We have worked under the alliance government and in governments before it to improve and improve prevention, early detection and support when necessary. Every person who lives with such a threat is one too many. This work must not stop, but must be constantly developed and strengthened in every part of society that has some form of responsibility. For those of you who follow this debate and are exposed to threats and violence or know someone who is vulnerable, there is Kvinnofridslinjen. It is a national support phone that is open 24 hours a day. Your phone call doesn't cost anything, and it doesn't show up on the phone bill. The telephone number is 020 - 50 50 50.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-83	Mr President, I would like to We do not have unlimited time in these debates, so if anyone who sees this wants to immerse themselves more in Liberal integration or gender equality policies, which is the subject we are now debating, we can go into our website Liberalerna.se. There is also a fresh integration programme with nearly 50 concrete proposals for integration. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has had a great deal of immigration for a long time. It has been much larger here than in many other countries around us. This has not turned up hux flux, but is the result of active decisions and the regulatory framework we have. It is the Riksdag that has decided that Sweden should have the policy that we have. While we welcome so many people to come here, we are surprised that the government is virtually not prepared to do anything to open up our labour market as well. How can this be called humane immigration policy? Large groups of newcomers have low education and weak language skills. If you come from a war zone and have never spoken Swedish, it is clear that you have significant challenges when you come here. How can it be humane for a large group of people to be driven out into unemployment? At the moment, the figures in Sweden look pretty good because we are in a boom, but this will turn downwards. In one or two years, we'll see tougher times again. If tens of thousands of people who have come to Sweden have not managed to establish themselves by then, a new generation of refugees and immigrants will be channeled into alienation in Sweden. It can be about people who do not get a high school degree because they are unable to study two languages, Swedish and English, in just a few years and therefore cannot get on to higher education or people who for other reasons cannot enter our labour market. I am very surprised, Mr President, that the government is not, for example, pressing the Association of Construction Workers to seriously stand up and play its part in the establishment of new arrivals. Buildings still refuse to participate in the fast track while we have the biggest build boom in decades. Why don't they do it? Now, by the way, we have the Minister for Gender Equality in this House. She'd like to make quotas on company boards. The Building Board seats 14 men and no women. What is the government doing about this? Is it prepared also to demand that trade unions assume their responsibility for gender equality? But back to integration, Mr President. More than 40% of all those enrolled in the Employment Service today were born outside Europe. Approximately every other person who is currently part of the establishment does not have an education corresponding to a Swedish upper secondary school degree. If, at the same time, you have a labour market where both employers and unions are happy to raise entry wages and where, through high entry wages, a lot of regulations and so on, it makes it as difficult as possible for people to enter the labour market, at least for those people who are far away from the labour market, you obviously channel people into unemployment. We in the Liberals have made clear proposals. We want to see so-called start-up jobs. This certainly means lower entry wages – between 14 000 and 16 000. This means that a person gets 11,000 after tax. However, that is more than 2 million people in our country have in disposable income today. If we think about it, all of us in here, do we remember the first job we had? I think we all do. But do we still have that job now? Everyone will say no, won't they? The first job we had was not in Parliament. For the vast majority of people in Sweden, the first job is not the same as the last job. The first job is for a few years, a year or a few months. It's the entry ticket. To argue then that those of us who want lower entry wages to give more opportunities to get their first job would threaten some kind of Swedish model is completely bizarre and absurd. Rather, by enabling people to enter the labour market, they also have the opportunity to get a second job, a third job and a fourth job. It's impossible to get the second job if you can't get the first job. It is therefore very strange that we have a government arm in arm with LO in Norra Bantorget for some kind of campaign against lowering thresholds and giving people a fair chance of entering the labour market. Mr President, I would like to Like most people in here, I am one of those politicians in Sweden who have stood up and argued for a humane and generous refugee policy for many years. I believe that we will then also have a responsibility. If we welcome as many people to Sweden as we have, we also have a responsibility to ensure that housing is built and that people get a fair chance to be included in our labour market. The picture of Swedish politicians for a very long time has been painted and the government is almost world champion and goes in for with a tremendous enthusiasm, namely that the vast majority of the people who have come to Sweden to seek asylum are highly educated people who, due to discrimination, are forced to drive taxis, is not entirely fair. It's a set. We have a very large group of people with low levels of education, and we have to admit that. Those people will not come in and get a job day one at an advertising agency in central Stockholm to a starting salary of 35 000. This means that we must open up our labour market to a large group of people who today have no chance of getting a job in the Swedish labour market. The Swedish labour market is closed to a large group of people today. Mr President, I would like to What happens if we do not reform the labour market? Well, what happens then is that the black sector is growing. There are very low entry wages, but there is also a great deal of legal uncertainty. There people are being systematically exploited. It is a huge rung many mornings in many vulnerable suburbs around Sweden with people going to work. It is just that it is people who are being driven into different parts of our economy where they do not pay taxes, where they do not have collective agreements and where they do not have a very dignified working situation. Is it reasonable for that sector to grow while the government with its beaks and claws refuses to make any changes so that people can instead get white jobs? I don't think that's reasonable. Today we have a more two-tier labour market in Sweden, but we also have a more two-tier unemployment. We will have a more two-tiered country with more and more parallel societies emerging. It is a development that we must resist, and we all have a responsibility to do so here, of course, but if we are to do so successfully, it also means that we must open up our labour market. Mr President, I would like to I'm going over my time a little bit. It has to do with me being the sole speaker for the Liberals in this debate and also wanting to touch on a few points in the area of gender equality. Is it the case that the government now believes that the most important issue is to stop private welfare companies? If you define that this is the most important issue, it will mean a manslaughter battle against a lot of female entrepreneurs in Sweden. A lot of women who have worn out in the public sector, worn themselves out and felt that job management had been poor in the municipality, in the administration or elsewhere in the public apparatus have instead sought out or started private alternatives. It is not a good gender equality policy to act in a way that means that very many female entrepreneurs are forced to close the shop. It will be a hard blow to jobs, but it will also be a very hard blow to very many hard-working women who have made the active choice of starting up activities in the welfare sector. The second thing the government wants to do now is to start a new agency, a gender equality agency. We in the Liberals have said that we are open to this. We believe it is important that such an authority can be created. What we are surprised about is the funding of the agency. You take a little from the work against honour violence, a little from the National Centre for Women's Peace and a little from some other activities to scrape together to this authority. In order to finance the agency, they break up a lot of activities that have been built up for many years around Sweden. I find it very difficult to see that this would be a good way to create authorities. It is possible that Åsa Regnér has some problems in her negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, but in that case you have to solve that. It is not reasonable that years of important construction work at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County in the work against honour violence should fund a new gender equality authority by dismembering the extremely important work against honour violence in various ways. In addition to acting against private welfare companies and breaking up long-term work on honor issues in various ways, the government wants quotas on company boards. This is the government's third most important issue in the field of gender equality. There too, I have to say, Mr President, that I am very surprised. I am very surprised at how the Social Democrats might find it rather unproblematic that there are 14 men on the Board of Buildings, while at the same time wanting to legislate on quotas on private company boards. We in the Liberals do not want this quota. It is the shareholders who decide over the board of directors of a company. In the same way, it is Building members who decide who is on their board. It is very surprising that it is said that it is perfectly okay that it must be as unequal as any in the union, but should squeeze the private companies there with legislation. It is not a policy of consistency, Mr President.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-103	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Fredrik Malm highlights the fact that many of those who come to Sweden are not as highly educated as it has been painted before. What surprises me is that the Liberals continue to carry out the same kind of integration policy projects that the former Minister for Integration Erik Ullenhag stood for and which he hailed in this House. I debated that subject with him many times. These are specific and identity-policy projects aimed at new arrivals. These projects have proved completely ineffective. As Fredrik Malm says, many people do not have adequate education that allows them to survive in the Swedish labour market. For them to enter the labour market, it is not enough to offer, for example, entry-level jobs and other things that have been the solutions of the Liberals historically. There is a need to take a stronger approach to this issue. For example, we strongly believe in apprenticeships. We have asked companies: why are there so few apprenticeships at the moment? Why don't you jump on the government's proposal for apprenticeships? The answer we have received is that it depends on risk and price. There's too much risk and too little reward. We have taken this on board. We believe that apprenticeship training should be extended to three years. It should apply to everyone, not just those who now choose to attend upper secondary education as young people; those who do not previously have upper secondary education should be able to combine Komvux education with two three days of apprenticeship training a week. It should be an education of three years that has a form of employment similar to a new job, i.e. that you can quit in a month if you do not do the job. But at the same time, there is a reward. The organiser receives a premium when a person has been trained. If you are an apprentice, you will receive a reward and you will also retain any benefits. What do you think of that solution, the Liberals?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-107	Mr President, I would like to Liberals have been pushing for more apprenticeships for many years. We do not share the view that all people who go to high school in Sweden should enter higher education qualifications, because there are many who do not want that. There are people who are tired of school and drop out when that is the case. This means that we want to see a greater element of professional programmes, apprenticeships and a stronger link between the education sector and the world of work and so on. Within the university of applied sciences and what was previously qualified vocational training, KY, we have many good examples of this. It is very important that this can also be improved in upper secondary school. Everything that makes it flexible so that people can combine practice with learning Swedish during the integration process is well great. Mr President, I would like to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström mentioned the entry-level jobs. It is quite expensive to subsidise employment so much. In addition, the problem is that several labour market policy measures are also administered and managed by the Employment Service, but many companies do not go to the Employment Service. We have many industries in Sweden that are practically completely self-recruiting where you don't have much contact with Arbetsförmedlingen. The model of the Liberals means what I mentioned in the speaker's chair before, namely what we call a starting job. It is a new form of employment with an initial salary of between SEK 14 000 and SEK 16 000 per month, of which the person receives more than 11,000 in hand. Employers' contributions are largely eliminated, which means a halved cost to the employer for hiring. We would like to see more progress in this direction: reducing the cost of hiring. There is a plethora of different measures, but they have not produced the effect that we want.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-113	Mr President, I would like to Apparently, I was wrong in the speaker's chair. I didn't think anyone would disassociate themselves from their previous integration policy, but Fredrik Malm did. I have often debated with Erik Ullenhag who has defended the entry-level jobs. It was the main feature of the Liberals, formerly the People's Party, in the alliance government represented. This honors Fredrik Malm. I also think it is a rather useless reform. We are talking about the establishment of newcomers, but with regard to your other integration policies, I find it somewhat difficult to understand the sense of identity policy that still flourishes in the Liberals and which provides support for associations on an ethnic basis. It may be associations that have spoken out strongly racistly in the near future and that reject, for example, Fredrik Malm from being able to come to their meetings, sit on their boards, take part in decisions or otherwise participate in their events. This, Fredrik Malm, is the same racism as when the Swedish party is standing on Sergel's square or somewhere else talking. It's exactly the same racism, it's just that the recipients and those who convey are changed so that it's Fredrik Malm and I who are affected. How can you defend an identity policy based on racism in its purest form? That is precisely what it is about in some of the associations that receive state funds based, for example, on your identity policy and your integration efforts.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-118	Mr President, I would like to If there is any party that applies identity politics, it is surely the Swedish Democrats. You've been doing that since 1988. It is based on the fact that people who have a different identity from Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström are not even welcome to the country. This has been the starting point for the policy of the Swedish Democrats for almost 30 years. We are a liberal party. We are not in favour of any identity policy and have never been. Our starting point is the individual. We think it is important for the individual to be able to realize himself. Our budget in this committee is 100 billion, while the contributions to immigrant associations amount to 19 million or something. It is therefore important that we have the perspectives clear. What is important is that MUCF, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, which provides this support, demands that organisations have a democratic foundation of values. It is very important to make such demands. There, Sweden can surely become much clearer. Now the support was withdrawn, I believe, from the Turkish National Association after the incident in Sergels torg. It was a good thing that you looked at them and did it. Many years ago, when I was chairman of the Liberal Youth League, the then Youth Council withdrew support for Revolutionary Communist Youth after distributing material denying Stalin's genocide and hailing North Korea. At the time, it was felt that they violated the democratic values. I'd love more of that! I think that's important. But to say that an association would not have the right to apply for association support or municipal grants just because it connects people from a particular country and organizes some events and cultural activities I find a little strange. I think they should have that right as long as it is a democratic organisation.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-123	Mr President, I would like to I wish that Fredrik Malm had the same commitment and was equally excited to talk about the possibilities of establishment as he becomes when he talks about collective agreements and Swedish trade union movement. However, this is no surprise, and it is not the first time I have heard that Fredrik Malm dislikes the Swedish model and Swedish collective agreements. We noticed this not least in this House last week when a majority of Members said that collective agreements are unnecessary and an obstacle. What I really want to ask Fredrik Malm is what the inhumane thing is about letting people get education. What is the inhumanity of allowing people to benefit from the security, order and order provided by Swedish collective agreements? Why does Fredrik Malm see an advantage in letting a group of people work under different conditions and conditions than others on the Swedish labour market? Does Fredrik Malm mean that order and order of the Swedish labour market at all would not be needed, or does he mean that the new arrivals, those with a different background, should have a different regulatory framework? Would that be humane?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-126	Mr President, I would like to The concern is that the labour market that Sweden has today means that many people are left out of the labour market and do not enter the labour market at all. There is a certain logic to that being the case. We have spent 50 years in Sweden trying to get rid of jobs with a lower qualification level. It has been logical during the post-war period and a time of high growth that the broad perception in parliament and in unions, employers and society at large has been that every generation should be better educated than the previous one, which means that we should not compete with low wages but with high skills. We shall have an export-driven, strong industry and manufacturing industry, high-tech industry, research and so on. This has served us well. At the same time, it is now the case that we have a larger group of people who come to our country and who do not enter that labour market today, which means that we are trying in different ways with the help of RUT deductions, tax breaks and so on now to get back simpler jobs that will be able to act as an entry ticket to our labour market. I believe that this is basically one of the most important challenges facing our country. For my life, I cannot understand how a person who grew up in a war area and comes to Sweden without education and without knowing a word Swedish or English should be able to be included on the Swedish labour market as it stands today. I find it very difficult to see how this is going to happen with the very high thresholds that we have in the labour market. Rather, it is the Social Democrats who are to blame for the answer. How to deal with the large group of newcomers today who are outside the labour market?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-131	Mr President, I would like to It feels as if this is why Fredrik Malm is only talking about wages in the Swedish labour market. Fredrik Malm has missed that this is precisely what establishment is about: People should not come here and not know a word Swedish and not know anything about society and how it works. That's why we're equipping them. That's why we equip them with the Swedish language, that's why people should start their teaching in social studies and Swedish day one. Of course, people who come here should not work without education, without knowledge of the Swedish language and without housing. It's as if the people who come to us would play in another league. No, they should be included in society. That's why we're talking establishment. We establish them by ensuring that they get the conditions just like everyone else. People are being armed. When I was young, I started working at Kapp Ahl. I think Fredrik Malm would describe it as a simple job. I didn't think it was a simple job. I learned it from scratch. I opened the collective agreement and saw what I should have paid. I was only 16 years old, and I could see that if the collective agreement was followed, I would earn that money when you are 16 years old. It was a low salary, but the parties agreed. The parties agreed that it should be a low salary when you are young, inexperienced and do not know the job. I could read in the book — an amazing book — what I would get paid when I turned 17, when I turned 18 and when I had three years of professional experience. That's the clever thing about collective agreements, and that's the clever thing about the model that exists in Sweden. The longer we participate, develop and learn the job, the more we get paid. What you are trying to do in this House is find another model. It should be a model that actually already exists, which the parties have been running for many years and which has served us well. Mr President, I would like to It is just nonsense when you say that there will be a better level of establishment with a low salary. No, it would break our labour market, and I'm guessing that's what you're looking for.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-138	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you that there is a world outside. In that world, a woman who has recently arrived in Sweden, gets a residence permit, enters the Swedish labour market after nine to eleven years. Among men, it is three to five years on average. One can of course be satisfied and say that it is thanks to the excellence of collective agreements. But I'm not happy. As long as we have a situation where a large and growing group of people who come to Sweden are permanently outside our labour market, the need for reforms will continue to be great. Mr President, I would like to I'm surprised. The Social Democrats are a party which, like the Liberals and just like most parties in this House, have voted in favour of the policy that has meant that many people have come to Sweden. Then we also have a responsibility to reform our housing market and reform our labour market. If we do not, it means that we welcome many people to Sweden but they are then left outside for decades. When we enter the next boom perhaps three years after the biggest refugee crisis with over 160 000 asylum seekers – many of them may not stay, but many may stay and many may bring their families here and build a future in Sweden – it is not reasonable for a large part of that group to be flown out into some kind of new alienation with new poverty, stigmatisation, increasing discrimination and increased polarisation as a result of an increasingly gapier, freckled ultra-right that is emerging. I'm worried about this kind of community development. In light of this, we must ensure that more people can get jobs in Sweden.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-143	Mr President, I would like to Integration is one of the most important issues in the Swedish debate right now. It feels like we have a short six-minute speaking time to cover everything included in integration policy. I will try to raise some of the issues that the Christian Democrats think are important. Sweden is now facing a major challenge due to the large influx of refugees to Sweden last autumn. That is why we need to make a major shift in integration policy. Sweden cannot afford to waste people's desire to get into work and society. The warnings from economists and social scientists are becoming more frequent that Sweden needs to change in several areas if the social consequences are not to be extensive. Last year, the unemployment rate for natives with higher education was 3.2 per cent. However, for foreign-born people with only pre-secondary education, unemployment was 31.3 per cent. The large number of new arrivals that came in 2015 is not included. Among the new arrivals are some with higher education and also many with low school education. Therefore, the gap will continue to increase between natives and foreign-borns in the coming years. We are in danger of having a two-way society with multiple exclusions and contradictions. The burden on the relevant authorities and municipalities is very great with long processing times. Asylum seekers will be seated for months that become years at asylum accommodations or in tight apartments while waiting for information. That time is being used very badly and aggravating the start in the new country. Knowledge that may have been in the hands disappears and confidence is eroded. Unfortunately, we do not see the government being able to tackle the integration challenge. Reforms in the labour market are needed here. High entry wages and inhibiting labour law need to be reviewed in a new era. Once you have received your residence permit, you enter the start-up phase of the Employment Service. After the two-year start-up phase, only 5% has been found on the regular labour market. It is not sustainable for either society or the individual not to have come out on their own. We Christian Democrats believe that we need a new type of employment with a lower starting salary during an introductory period for those people who do not have a higher level of secondary or school education in particular. That's what we call introductions. I will come back to them during tomorrow's debate. In order to speed up the entry into the labour market of people coming to our country, we are proposing to Christian Democrats in the motion we have brought to Parliament an asylum programme. We believe that the introduction must begin from the first day. We want asylum seekers to be included in a six-month programme where they read SFIs about two days a week. You have some form of employment, perhaps in your own home, in an association, in an internship or in a regular job. One day a week they participate in social orientation about Swedish society and the values that underpin our society. We believe that inaction during the asylum period must be broken into a more active period. Even if people get rejected later, we believe that passivity is not something that benefits Swedish society and the individual for a long time. Mr President, I would like to The number of exclusion areas is increasing. Hardly even the police dare go in. Women who come to our country risk not becoming part of the equal Sweden. They are controlled and sometimes even threatened with life because they want to live like other girls and women in Sweden. That is, of course, unacceptable. That is why we need to invest in creating a society in which these women feel welcome and have the same rights as the rest of us. The violence of honour must not increase. As early as 2009, a study was carried out which showed that approximately 70 000 young people in Sweden aged 16-25 feel that they cannot freely choose who they want to marry. There are a terrible number of people, both boys and girls. Therefore, action must be taken. The Christian Democrats propose that legislation should be developed in which honour crimes are separately regulated in support of the vulnerable. There is also a need for a special unit of police and foreign administration that, like the British model, Forced Marriage Unit, will prevent forced marriages and that girls are taken out of Sweden for forced marriage and take the girls home if they have already been abducted. During the time of the Alliance, legislation in this area was tightened up, but I believe that further efforts are needed. In the UK, a special order can be issued for these girls, and they can be taken home from other countries with which there are cooperation agreements. There is also a so-called forced marriage protection order. This means that you can go home to your parents with the court order and tell them that if they cannot show where the girl is within 48 hours, the parents can be detained. Sweden needs to take a bit tougher action than there is today to make girls feel safe in our societies. It is not okay to come to Swedish society but not feel safe here. Finally, I would like to say something about the reception of municipalities. There the government has talked about sanctions. I know that many municipalities are working to do their very best to participate in the reception of asylum seekers and new arrivals. I think it is important that we do not start with sanctions, but that we first ensure that we have better conditions and the new legislation that has been discussed, for example, on modular housing on the ground. Let us ensure that we have better reception facilities for the municipalities before we start talking about sanctions. With that, Mr President, my speaking time is up. We know that for integration to work it is the language, housing, work and community that we need to provide. Here we Christian Democrats have made a lot of proposals, and if you want to read on about them, you can do so in our motion, which is very comprehensive. I refer to it.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-162	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Pethrus mentioned at the beginning of the speech the major refugee crisis last year and the large reception of 163 000 people. I got the impression that you want to put all the integration problems we see in today's society into that particular refugee crisis, which is of course wrong to do. In principle all integration problems we see today in the Swedish exclusion areas are derived from the refugee reception before 2015 and 2016, i.e. mainly the time when Désirée Pethrus and the Christian Democrats for eight years were in government position. Then we'll come to our own responsibility. The first question is: What responsibility do the Christian Democrats have because it looks like it does in Swedish exclusion areas today? There is a myth that we have closed the borders in Sweden: Now no one comes in, now it is good, and now can even want to increase the reception. This year we receive about 30 000 asylum seekers. It's as much as we received in 2010 and 2011. The years after 2010 and 2011 there have been considerably more. But the integration problems that we see and that exist in the Swedish exclusion areas around Sweden come mainly from the years when we have received approximately 30 000 people or less. The overall impact of the reception from 2012 onwards has not yet been seen, but it will. What responsibility do the Christian Democrats have for this situation, and are you prepared, as the Liberals have just done, to distance themselves from the integration policy – and not just the migration policy – that you conducted for eight years in government?
i-KKLu3HiTTWZ43oa2bwSyax	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström! Of course, there have been areas of exclusion before, and what I tried to say in my speech was that with a large number of asylum seekers the risk will increase that those areas will increase. We see that there is a problem and that we have not taken hold of it. One of the main issues we are now proposing here is to have an asylum programme in which we learn values early on, get some kind of employment and learn the Swedish language. It is very important that integration starts early. There's one thing. The second is that we propose introductory positions. We recognise that the labour market is too rigid in Sweden today to provide an opportunity for the new arrivals, especially those with low education. We spend a lot of money on professional adults to get more people to work with training. But we know that the Public Employment Service also says that not everyone is receptive and cannot enter educational programmes. Then we must have a labour market that also meets that group. So we have two different proposals, asylum programmes and introductions, which we believe are the basis for people's integration. In the exclusion areas it has often been about that you do not have work and therefore have not entered Swedish society. I believe that Sweden benefits from having immigration. We have always been in favour of regulated immigration in Sweden, and the Christian Democrats continue to be. But yes, we realized that there was too much influx last autumn. We had to put the brakes on, and we have done so in a broad agreement here in Parliament. Not to say that we should accept people who are asylum seekers we are against, but we must find better ways to integrate people into Sweden. In this way we can reduce the number of exclusion areas.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-172	Mr President, I would like to This year we are receiving about 30 000 asylum seekers, and previous evidence back in time shows that this figure is too high for us to integrate them sufficiently. The problems we see in Swedish society today are largely related to the reception before there were more than about 30 000 per year. Last time we in Sweden managed to integrate people who came to this country to an extent of 30 000 per year was during the 1950s and 60s. It worked perfectly well, and it was because they came directly out to work, into the Swedish workplaces and into Swedish society. They also came from relatively related countries that had similar views on many of life's issues and could therefore be integrated into Swedish society in a different way. We have a challenge now. If Désirée Pethrus also acknowledged that under the alliance government, too, the figures were far too high to cope with integration, because they were – what are we doing when we are faced with receiving 30 000 even now in this situation, when some claim that we have closed the borders? This has proved to be too high for us to cope with integration in Sweden. So what do we do? What is the Christian Democrats' solution to integration problems in that context?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-175	Mr President, I would like to I think we can do a lot. I cannot say if 30 000 is the exact sum, but I think that Sweden has had an ability to receive people – we have needed labour, and we will need labour in the future – and therefore it would be unfortunate if the Swedish Democrats want to completely close Sweden's borders. I think it is a very bad policy. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström says that 30 000 per year was too high under previous governments. I do not think so, but the problem has been that there have been too few people getting into work. The unemployment rate, as I mentioned here, is 3% for natives and 31% for those who have no education and have come here from another country. That's the gap we need to fix. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats often support the Social Democrats in a anti-job policy. That is the problem, Mr President, and not the fact that 30 000 people have arrived here a year. Let us make sure that we have a job policy that works and that we are reforming both the Employment Service and the whole labour market policy to make it easier to get into work. That is how we Christian Democrats are trying to reform and see what we need to do in the near future. Labour market policy needs to be reformed. Whether we want it or not, we will be forced to do so, and I would like the Swedish Democrats to embrace a new, reformed labour market policy in order for people to get to work and thus break the exclusion that exists today. It is through jobs, jobs and jobs that we can get people into Swedish society.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-179	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the AU1 on gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. I will use my speaking time to talk a little bit about the issues of establishment, and later in the debate my colleague Anki Ahlberg, among other things, will address gender equality issues. Mr President, I would like to It is often that we choose to talk about the establishment as one of the greatest challenges of our time. Of course, no one can claim that there are no challenges. Everyone in here and everyone else knows we have a job to do. But the vast majority, but not all, agree that it gives our country great opportunities. It is here in Parliament that we create the conditions for good work. It is here in Parliament that we can create the conditions for a good establishment. It's our responsibility, but it's out in the country that the job is done. It is at Arbetsförmedlingen, in the municipalities, in the workplaces, in schools, in folk high schools, in study associations, in sports associations and in lots of non-profit associations that the job is done. Mr President, I would like to There you work every day with establishment. That is where the results come and where the results are seen. But we create the conditions for the work. Problems I can face when I'm out in the constituency can be practical things like: I got a place on SFI and can start my Swedish education, but we don't have childcare. Or they say: We have empty seats at folk high school, but there is a queue on the municipality sfi. Many times you describe the problems as: Collaboration does not work. We should work together better. It may actually seem that the problems are quite manageable. I won't say they're small, but they're pretty manageable. By talking to each other and communicating, we solve a great deal of the difficulties described out there. What I encounter most when I'm out is a commitment, a damn drive and a huge desire to succeed. That picture I think all of you here who are out meeting people in the establishment mission share. We meet commitment, drive and a desire to succeed. Basically every week at home we meet people who, through communication and by building relationships between different actors, manage to do a better job. Last Monday, I was in Svalöv. There I met the Municipality of Svalöv together with Arbetsförmedlingen. We were at Fridhem folk high school. Anyone who does not believe that we can succeed with integration in our country, I promise to take on a visit like what I had at Fridhem folk high school on Monday. I am cruelly impressed by much of the good work I see and much of the good work that is being done. There is every reason to highlight those who are making a fantastic contribution to a good establishment in our society. We are now starting Swedish education and education in social sciences right away. We use the time during the asylum process. That's really good. We strengthen the welfare of municipalities and county councils by 10 billion. It's really needed. Ideal organisations have made a fantastic effort during this very strained time and continue to make fantastic efforts. It's incredibly important. The new instruction law will hopefully lead to a more even distribution of new arrivals among all Swedish municipalities. It's absolutely necessary. The introduction of a new form of investment, supported housing, as a complement to HVB and family homes will reduce cost development. Actually, that's perfectly reasonable. When people come to us, we will of course take advantage of their knowledge and experience. We will also add what is missing. We will give everyone the Swedish language and civic education. When we equip people with knowledge, we will be able to recruit our shortage professions much better. Mr President, I would like to I believe that with the help of our new Swedes we get new concrete workers, new car mechanics, new CNC operators, new teachers, new cooks, new nurses, new nurses, new nurses, new doctors and new dentists. The list can be made long. Mr President, I would like to That's how people become established. It is when we go to work, when we make a living, when we meet in society, when the kids go to school, when we meet the neighbors in the neighborhood and when we are part of a community that we can say that we humans are established. Mr. Alman! It is not we politicians who are doing the practical work, but we are creating the conditions. Out in society, actors hook arm to solve a major challenge. Let us do the same here in Parliament. Let's hook our arm for a successful establishment. In fact, that is what people expect of us. That is a perfectly reasonable expectation, because that is exactly what we expect of them. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-195	Mr President, I would like to There are things that Annelie Karlsson and I share, and there are things about which we do not share views. One of the initiatives launched a few years ago has been welcomed by a great many. It would be interesting to hear how things are going. I am thinking of fast track. How many people have entered into these efforts today? More importantly, how many of them have entered into those efforts that are in work?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-196	Mr President, I would like to I can't tell you exactly how many people have come to work by fast track. But I can tell Annika Qarlsson good examples about fast tracks that have worked very well. These are technicians who are currently working at Scania in Oskarshamn who, via a very fast track with Lernias's help, got into work, and where Oskarshamn municipality has also got new residents. It's a very successful project. In Skåne there are several examples where you drive fast tracks to strengthen care. Women are being trained for nursing professions, where there is a major shortage. This has been done in consultation with the municipality and the trade unions. These are very successful tracks. My experience is that of those who go into the fast track, it is a very high percentage that goes out. The point of the fast track is that people have a job in sight. That's usually why it's such a successful project. People see that they have the job within reach. How many there are I can't answer Annika Qarlsson to. But fast track is still a model that I believe in very much and that I really think we should continue to work with, develop and make sure that there will be many more.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-200	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that fast track is an important effort and action and a way for people to get to work quickly. But there has been a rather strong criticism of how it has worked and that it has not succeeded, whether it is about getting the right people into the effort or getting them out of there and in work. It gets a little weird to discuss something when you don't follow it up. You still stand and say it's great. The review carried out in the autumn shows that very few were involved in the operation and the measure, but above all that in many parts it did not lead to jobs at all. Then you have to think about: What is needed for it to be an effect of the efforts needed?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-203	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps that is what distinguishes opposition politicians and we who work with the government. When I am out in the constituency on my Mondays and to a certain extent Fridays, it is in order to follow up, just as Annika Qarlsson says. What's working? What's not working? I think every worker in Skåne knows that when they find bugs in the system or something that doesn't work, they should call a signal or send an email. It is for this reason, in order for us to find the problems, that I am moving in the constituency. Doesn't the fast track work? What's not working? We're trying to solve the problems. It is clear that if you have the ambition to solve the problems you work that way. If you have the ambition to find the problems and highlight them in Parliament's chambers, you work in a different way. It's a little different how to deal with the problem. I think Annika Qarlsson and I can agree that we need to solve the problems we see. I'm not at all happy with the fast track. There could be a lot more of them. But that doesn't mean I don't believe in the model. The obstacles and problems we see we are trying to solve. That's how we try to work and solve the challenges ahead.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-207	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Karlsson! It was a great commitment – I will give Annika Karlsson. Och there were a lot of adjectives.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-208	There were a lot of adjectives. It is surprising that one can suddenly be so satisfied when the problems are greater than ever. I said in my speech that we have a task and a challenge ahead of us that is the most difficult that we have ever had. There is not an ounce of sign that you see the problems that exist. You said right at the end of your post: We will try to solve the problems that exist. But you don't mention a single problem. There have been 100 000 people a year to Sweden on average during the last three years. I said earlier that if we do the same way we've done before, this is going to go really bad. What is it, then, that this government has done in contrast to before? It's a fast track. It's definitely a good bet. Less than 4% of all those in the establishment participate in the fast track. My specific question must then be: if you have yet seen a problem with fast track but no problems with reality – how will these problems be solved? I have one more question. You spoke to Fredrik Malm earlier about the excellence of collective agreements. We absolutely share that picture. But is it serious that fast track and some education will solve the integration problems that we see in the future? The four alliance parties each have their own proposal for easier access to the labour market. They look like each other. We also have a new form of employment. How is it that the government in the most difficult of times that Sweden finds itself in says no to all good suggestions about how people should get to work faster?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-213	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to Elisabeth Svantesson. It's possible that I'm perceived as very pleased. I am very pleased with what is being done out in the real world. I am very pleased with the collaboration I see between Arbetsförmedlingen, folkhögskolan, adult education and all the actors. I am very pleased with the contribution that the study associations make in the form of Swedish from day one. I think that there is reason to be satisfied with the efforts made. However, we still have a long way to go. I do not know if I was unclear, but I can say it again: we have a very long way to go before we have managed to establish ourselves. However, if I am perceived as satisfied, Mr President, Elisabeth Svantesson is perceived as rather dissatisfied. It is also interesting, because I do not think it can be perceived by anyone as having problems before the Social Democratic-led government took office. Elisabeth Svantesson makes it sound like the problems arose exactly on the day that Stefan Löfven formed the government. It is a bit interesting in many ways when compared to other areas. If school results get better, it is certainly the old government's credit, and if unemployment falls, it is the old government's credit. But if the establishment does not work, it is the present government's fault, and it is believed that we do not see the problems. I can promise that both in the Socialist parliamentary group and in the Social Democratic-led government we see the problems and work incredibly hard to solve the problems that exist. I would have liked us to be able to hook arms with the opposition in the greatest challenge of our time – to resolve the establishment – instead of taking the debate in this way in this House. Let us sit down and talk about it the next time we have a sitting!
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-217	Mr President, I would like to One must first share the problem picture if one is to be able to hook arms in certain matters. I will not spend a minute doing what Annelie Karlsson now did and talking about the previous eight years. I have been very self-critical in many ways, and I will not repeat it. I also said that earlier here in the speaker's chair. Now it is the Social Democrats and the Green Party that govern the kingdom. Two years and two months have passed. We are facing the greatest challenge ever. Last year, 163 000 people arrived. Do you seriously believe that fast track will solve this very big challenge? Do you think education alone will solve this? No, much more will be needed. I mentioned several parts in my speech. Two of them were increased employability and increased demands on individuals. Annelie Karlsson does not mention a word about that. I mentioned in my speech more ways into employment and simplified wage support. The government hasn't. I was talking about the new apprenticeship. There, the government does nothing. I mentioned in my speech that it should be made more profitable to work so that you break the dependency on benefits. These problems do not see the government. You can be out in your constituency a lot; I think it is very good. But see the results! The results at the moment are frustratingly bad. And yes, I am gloomy, because Sweden is heading in the wrong direction in this area. If we don't solve the task, and we don't just do it fast-track, it's gonna go really, really bad.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-221	Mr President, I would like to I think Elisabeth Svantesson will have to look again at the proposal. Fast track is part of it. It appears here in the debate that fast track is our solution to establishment. It is a part, and just as I said before, I absolutely believe it can develop. One can reflect on the need to agree on the problem picture in order to be able to solve things together. You have to agree on the problem picture to hook your arm. It is clear that I am rather gloomy when I stand in this Chamber listening to the opposition, because their only solution to the problems is to lower wages. It is simply a question of lowering thresholds, reducing wages and making this easier. I can say the same thing again as I said in the previous line change: of course, we are not surprised to hear it. We saw how you voted last week in this House. You disapprove of order in the Swedish labour market. The solution of the opposition, Mr President, is to reduce wages and to have a different labour market for those who have come to our country. We'll never, ever, ever hook our arm around that. We still believe in equipping people to be part of the Swedish labour market under the same conditions and with the same rules that apply to everyone else. That is why we equip people with knowledge. This can also be seen as a purely egotistical reason for Sweden, because we have a huge number of shortages that we have to fill. I listed some of them in my speech. The people who have come to our country will help us to make sure that these shortages are filled. Let us agree that we will not be able to solve the challenges of the labour market by the same method. I will never ever agree with the solution that the Moderates see – that we should reduce wages in the Swedish labour market. That's why we stand up for another model.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-226	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has seen and sees a significant increase in housing construction. Actually, it's been going on since 2012, and now it's taking off. We know it is still inadequate, but there is still a great deal of construction. I searched the word. The headlines were: Swedish build boom continues, build boom in Stockholm County, build boom in Uppsala County, build boom rolls in over Sweden and so on. This has been the case in recent years. While we have this boom, we have many new arrivals who could be absorbed into the construction industry and the construction sector. Otherwise, if companies cannot meet the need for staff, there will only be more secondment, and I understand that your page is not very enthusiastic about that. Then my question is: how is it that those who are most against fast track and to be able to make it easier for new arrivals to enter is the Building Workers' Association? Can't Annelie Karlsson explain to us how it is that part of the trade union-political collaboration, namely the Building Workers' Association, which is one of LO's most important unions, strongly opposes the fact that the largest construction boom we have seen in decades should also come to some new arrivals? Imagine a person who has come from Syria and has been in Sweden for two years and can help on a construction site and who may have worked on this in his own country. Shouldn't such a person get a fair chance to come in? How is it that everyone else – officials, cutters, butchers, preschool teachers and everyone else – wants fast track but not just in the industry that has a chance and an opportunity to absorb a lot of labour in the coming years? Why is that?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-231	Mr President, I would like to I think Fredrik Malm will have to visit some construction sites someday when the Parliament does not call. Then he will discover that the entire construction industry is full of construction workers of a different origin. What Building fights for is its collective agreements. If Swedish construction workers listen to Fredrik Malm in the debate today, they will be even more convinced that they must stand up and fight for their Swedish collective agreements. Fredrik Malm is not in favour of the discussion, given that we are happy to talk about the need to lower wages and thresholds. When Swedish construction workers listen to this, they probably say: It is important that we stand up for our agreements. Today, the entire construction industry is filled with people with different backgrounds from the Swedish and people who were not born in Sweden. That's what it looks like in the construction industry. What construction workers are fighting for is their collective agreements and their order on the Swedish labour market. I think that's quite reasonable. It is difficult to tell them that they will stop standing up for the model that I stand up for and that I thought also a liberal could stand up for: the Swedish model in the Swedish labour market. Fast track isn't for dumping the terms. What I understand is also Building on the way with fast track, and the industry is on the way to manufacturing housing to be able to rationalise and make it easier. How they reason in the Swedish Building Workers' Association, Fredrik Malm will have to discuss with them. But I do understand whether, after listening to Fredrik Malm in the debate, they are reacting by even sharper standing up for their collective agreements, given that there is a majority in this House that dislikes Swedish collective agreements.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-236	Mr President, I would like to This will be a little surprising. The Social Democrats argue in much the same way as if it would threaten collective agreements to participate in the fast track. Of course, that is not the case. Rather, it should enable people to enter the labour market. Let me make my question even clearer, Mr President. Does Annelie Karlsson think that it facilitates integration and establishment in Sweden that the Swedish Association of Building Workers does not participate in the fast track? Does it facilitate integration and establishment, or can the fact that Building does not set up on the fast track have a negative effect on integration and establishment?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-238	Mr President, I would like to If Fredrik Malm's claim that Buildings does not go on a fast track, I would have said: No, it does not help. But I know that there are discussions– I even think that the Minister for Labour will be able to come back to it in his speech – with the Swedish Building Workers' Association on how to make it easier for newcomers to enter the labour market via fast track and other measures. Fast track isn't the only thing that matters. Fast track is a good model, but I think this rhetoric is different. They want to point out once again that it is the Swedish trade union movement that is the obstacle. I say it again, Mr President, and I think it can be said: the rhetoric of the Liberals and other bourgeois parties that we need to lower thresholds and lower wages does not, I believe, facilitate discussions on how to proceed with fast track. I believe that when one feels that there is a majority in this House against Swedish collective agreements and for lower wages, the concern out there is quite great.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-240	Mr President, I would like to Annelie Karlsson began her speech by inviting her to attend a folk high school and see how the excellent Social Democratic integration policy works. I'll accept the invitation. I'd love to go see it, because it'll be great to see. I'd love to go with you, Annelie. I'd like to accept another invitation. In the line shift with Fredrik Malm, you claimed that on Swedish construction sites there are a lot of people with foreign background. That is true – it is seconded personnel from the rest of Europe, especially Eastern Europe, who sometimes have miserable conditions and salaries. But that there would be so many who come who are asylum seekers, I want to see that. I would be happy to accompany you to a construction site and look at this. If you do not find such a place of work yourself, your husband may be able to help you find one. I guess so, too. Annelie then listed a number of occupational categories that we now bring to Swedish society through the large migration of asylum, including doctors. I do not know if Annelie is aware that we have approximately a doctor of 277 inhabitants in Sweden. We have a nurse with 91 residents. Of the 163 000 who came in the refugee wave last year, 588 need to be a doctor in order not to lose medical density in Sweden. It is difficult to get exact figures, but a good year seems about 40 doctors' IDs in that group are validated in Sweden. A good year. That contradicts what you're saying. It is also like many others here have said that in this particular wave of refugees there was an extremely low level of education compared to previous waves of refugees, that is, we see even worse problems in the future. Then we must, quite rightly, take a firm stance in order to get people into the labour market. So I accept your invitations, and then I have one final question. You completely saw the new start jobs in your own budget. It's displacement effects, and it's deadweight. But what do you do? You don't put them down. No, you just redirect them to new arrivals. Why is that, Annelie?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-245	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by asking the President whether it is reasonable for us to refer to Members' families and their respective work. Firstly, I would like us to be able to call employees in the Swedish trade union movement at their proper title. I would like Mr Sällström to call employees of the Swedish trade union movement at their proper title. If you're an ombudsman, you're an ombudsman. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that this is an expression that is acceptable to use in this House. What is least okay is to point out that a member of the Swedish Parliament should go home and check with their respective opinions about something. Actually, I don't think that's okay. Mr President, I would like to I want to say that it is nonsense that Sällström is doing. It is rhetoric that does not belong in this House. Incidentally, I think that Sällström shows very clearly in this line shift what it is really about. Sällström is not at all interested in integration. He's not at all interested in getting people established in society. He wants to describe that those who have come to our country will not do anything. That is why, Mr Sällström, there is a whole package of labour market measures that we in the Socialistly led government have put in place. There is a package of educational measures to get people into the Swedish labour market. We don't sort people on the basis of their skills. We sort people from outside if they have a need for protection. They have a need to come to us. Then there is a pure bonus that there will be doctors, dentists, teachers and other educated people who will reinforce. We give knowledge to those who do not have knowledge, but they have not come to our land because they have knowledge. They have come to our country because they have applied for asylum.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-252	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive a single answer to my questions. It's like 40 validated, it's not even close to 588. That is to say, in many of the areas you listed in your speech, we are reducing Sweden's opportunities. I didn't get an answer about my new job. There are some things in your government and in parties that support your government that think that now that we have closed the borders, reception and integration are working well– now we can open the borders again. This year we receive about 30 000 asylum seekers. The integration problems we have today stem from the time when we had approximately 30 000 asylum seekers or less per year. What do you think of that, Annelie Karlsson? Should we increase the reception again, or should we close the lines and only receive via U N HCR's agency? Do you think $30,000 a year is appropriate? Another question I have for Annelie Karlsson is what to do about the approximately 317 000 – it is the Migration Agency's calculations – family immigrants arriving by 2020, only due to the refugee disaster we had last year and the large reception we had in Sweden. How are you going to solve that situation? How are you going to solve that integration?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-257	Mr President, I would like to Sällström has comments that I do not answer his questions. I will not answer some of these questions either, because this is the wrong debate. Sällström wants a migration debate. We have an integration debate. There is a big difference between integration debate and migration debate. The migration debate was last week, if I remember correctly. Sällström probably also participated in it and asked the same questions. Today we are talking about integration. That's why we Social Democrats are talking about how to give people knowledge, how to give people the conditions to live, how to ensure that more municipalities receive people so that they get a good establishment, how the kids' schooling should work better and how to ensure that we equip people to have a good life in Sweden – on the same terms as everyone else. But the issues we are discussing here are Sällström and the Swedish Democrats are not interested in discussing. Sällström and his party are only interested in discussing why they came, whether it was really reasonable that they came, whether there should be more and that they do not have the corresponding education. I say it again: they have come to our country because they have fled here. They have not come here to strengthen our labour market. But when they're here, we're gonna make sure they're part of society. This is done by going to work, by the kids going to school and by being a part of society and society. These are the issues we are discussing, but they are unfortunately not interested in discussing. That's why these lines are completely meaningless.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-261	Mr President, I would like to I have said this before, in a similar integration debate a couple of years ago: every time you listen, there is something that chafes like a small stone in your shoe. We have heard quite clear examples of this today. One representative after another from the bourgeois side is in the pulpit talking about the challenges of integration. We hear the same old cabinet food about reduced thresholds, which is a rewrite for lower wages and worse conditions. We hear about tax cuts and reductions in subsidies, and we hear about the so-called exclusion. For if it is something the bourgeoisie loves to talk about, it is exclusion, as they call it. What they forget to tell is that the so-called exclusion is a direct consequence of their own class politics. Recently, moderate representatives, in particular, have competed in apologizing for the refugee policy pursued during the time of the bourgeoisie in power. While we all see daily television images of civilians slaughtered in the Aleppo of ruins, mass graves unveiled in Mosul and acts of terror shaking Kabul, the Moderates seem to think that humanity is an out-of-date sinker. But, Mr President, there are plenty of things that the Moderates and the bourgeoisie should instead take the opportunity to apologize for. Where are the excuses that every political proposal they made during their eight years in power was about rigging the system for those who have the most and do the best? I am talking about the tax cuts of 140 billion, the low wage and precarious employment, the lack of housing, the privatisations, the free choice of schools and the right of establishment that segregation and variety, and the drive to allow welfare thieves to lower their straws in our welfare to make profit. Where are the excuses for an establishment system that broke the establishment of municipalities and instead replaced it with a breakdown of the worst kind, with shady establishment slots and a very unclear division of responsibilities between authorities and municipalities? No, it is strikingly silent about the responsibility of the bourgeoisie for increasing class divisions, segregation and housing shortages. Instead, they have the nerve to point to those of us who fall into the security system, who do not get the necessary support for education or who are forced to live very crowded because of housing shortages and say that it is probably we who are the problem. They blame those of us who are forced to live at the bottom of the unfair class society they do their very best every day to deepen and preserve. It's a pretty well-known old class contempt. The new thing is that it is now increasingly explained by origin, place of birth or religious affiliation. Mr President, I would like to The V i in the Western Party is happy and proud of the budget that we have managed to achieve together with the government. In many ways it represents a different focus on policy, with reforms that prioritise and strengthen the welfare system and take important steps to level out living conditions. We live in a time when class not only has sex but also color. Sweden's poorest are women and foreign born. That is why it has been crucial for the Left Party that the budget we are now putting on the table of Parliament is just taking important steps to prioritise those who have the least in our society and to strengthen the welfare that is crucial for everyone's ability to secure and improve living conditions. 10 billion left, steps towards a fairer tax system, investment aid to increase the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents, investment in Swedish during the asylum period, language teaching in folk high schools, more qualified SFI teachers and strengthened validation are important steps for the particular area we are debating today. That doesn't mean we don't have anything left to do. There are very great injustices left in society, and there is nothing that can be quickly repaired; it has taken a long time to create the divides. The proposals we are now making can help open doors for those outside the labour market. As Sandro Scocco has stated in the Arena warehouse, it is not necessary to lower thresholds but to open doors – and it is the employer who can open the doors. This can be done either by having the necessary skills or by counteracting the discrimination that keeps the door closed. These are the two absolutely basic things we need to do. Mr President, I would like to What chafes like a stone in the shoe of today's debate is precisely this: that the bourgeoisie cannot possibly have any solutions to reduce what they call alienation. It is a direct effect of their class politics. A society that really creates the conditions for inclusion, security and cohesion can only be built on an economy and a community building that benefits us all and not just the few. It is no secret that the Left Party is not behind either the restrictions on refugee policy contained in the Migration Agreement or the Temporary Act. For we are absolutely convinced that security is the best basis for building a future. Now that the government and large parts of the opposition have legislated to divide families and break up establishment and security with temporary residence permits, one of the most important integration policy proposals we can come up with today is to allow families to reunite and allow permanent residence permits to be the foundation of a future for those who are protected in Sweden. The Left Party wants to see another migration policy, a policy that stands up for the right of asylum and puts human rights at the centre. We know that a strong and general well-being must be the basis for a functioning establishment and a fairer and more equal society. We also know that it requires an economic policy that is for all of us and a tax system that evens out the gaps that have grown in Sweden for a long time. The Left Party will continue to push for this. Mr President, I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-278	Mr President, I would like to I note that you, in the Left Party, are storming against the policy that is supposed to break an establishment, and then conclude the speech by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Perhaps it should be pointed out to Christina Höj Larsen and the Left Party that you participate in budget collaboration with the government. You're behind the budget. This means that you are in favour of zeroing the budget for family reunification, as a result of the legislation adopted by Parliament on 20 June. If you, in the Left Party, are to stand in the speaker's seat and say that everyone should be given permanent residence permits and that we should have a completely different migration policy, why are you in negotiations with the government on the budget? Please explain to me how this is done! After all, you are on a state budget that means the hardest asylum and refugee policy Sweden has ever had, at least in modern times. The second, Mr President, is that Christina Höj Larsen says that what is required are not reduced thresholds but open doors. But it is difficult to open a door if there is a threshold in the way, so to speak. Then maybe you need to plan that threshold down a little bit. Christina Höj Larsen says in the speaker's chair that lower thresholds, which the Alliance often uses as vocabulary, are a rewrite for lower wages, but it doesn't have to be at all. It can also be about things that we, from the common subsidies, are subsidising to lower thresholds, such as RUT deductions. It is an excellent way to lower the thresholds to the labour market. But it does not mean lower wages for people. I understand that the Left Party wants to avoid increasing wage dispersion at all costs. I understand your argument for this even if I do not share it. But for my life I cannot understand why the Left Party opposes lower thresholds that do not mean lower wages.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-284	Mr President, I would like to It's quite interesting. As Fredrik Malm says, there are already extensive subsidies to be received in the form of various types of employment support. Yet the representatives of the Alliance persist in making proposals to further reduce wages. But if the employer is unable to even pay half of a regular salary, how low is it when you want to pay? Annelie Karlsson was into this earlier in a change of line. This is about what our whole conflict is all about. We think that people should be able to live on their wages. One should be able to live on a job, on a full-time salary. What you are proposing will mean the very opposite. This is not the kind of society we want. Subsidized employment is not a problem for the Left Party. We think it is absolutely necessary. There are a number of situations where it is important and good. As far as lower thresholds are concerned, we know from a whole series of practical attempts at lower wage costs that it does not yield the results you hope for. We saw it with the wage cost for young people and with the restaurant VAT – it did not have the effect that was hoped for, and we are not prepared to use our tax money that way. We want to do something else and create real jobs. If we look at countries in Europe where there are many low-wage jobs, we cannot see that they have a well-functioning labour market. These are countries such as Turkey, Greece and so on. There's a lot of low-wage jobs there. Is that good? No, actually, it's not. It is not a good labour market for the majority.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-289	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if we should compare ourselves with Greece and Turkey, but the truth is that there are very many low-wage jobs in Sweden too, in an ever-growing black sector. Just look in the service sector in Stockholm. There you will probably find a lot of people – it can be undocumented, asylum seekers, people who have lived in Sweden for 20 years or people who were born in Sweden – in a shadow presence, in a shadow society in Sweden. As a liberal, I believe that if we are to include them, we must lower the thresholds into the labour market. The Left Party argues that subsidised employment is okay. This means that the entire subsidy is put on the employer. With RUT deduction, the subsidy is not applied to the employer but to the consumer. It's the same way when you buy an environmental car. You get a subsidy on it, and it goes out on all taxpayers. It's the same principle. Yes, if we are to lower the thresholds, we will continue to need subsidised employment. We will also need models where we promote new and broad markets in different ways by subsidising the consumer, for example through RUT deductions, ROT deductions and other things. We will also need some tax cuts, and we may also need lower entry wages in certain sectors. I think we need all of this. However, I note that the only thing the Left Party is willing to do is to put the entire subsidy on the employer. It may be the present-day form of socialism, but I do not know if it necessarily helps those furthest away from the labour market.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-293	Mr President, I would like to In ordinary order, Fredrik Malm always wants so much that it becomes quite luxuriant and quite a lot of different questions and grants at the same time. I note that the Liberals in their draft budget generally give 80 – 90% of their tax cuts to the very richest. It clearly shows who you think is important in society. I do not at all share the view that they are the ones who need the most in our society. When it comes to low-wage jobs and low-skilled jobs, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise actually estimates that about half of the workforce in Sweden is over-qualified for their work. D et gives something called bumping down effect, that is, those who do not have good qualifications are actually being squeezed out by people who have better qualifications. What Sweden needs is highly qualified jobs, not vice versa. This is something you never talk about, but you continue to push out those who do not have conditions on the labour market. It's not something I'm willing to do. I am absolutely convinced that what we need to do is to equip those who need it with training, so that the door can be opened and so that even those who have a good education can continue their work journey in the system. That is what Sweden has done historically, and that is what we need to do now. You've been against that, and that doesn't surprise me at all. It is classical bourgeois policy to oppose education for those who need it and to say instead that lower wages and worse conditions are the way forward. That will never be the case for the Left Party. When it comes to the budget, it is no secret to anyone in Sweden what the Left Party thinks about the temporary law. There are a number of other things in the budget that we have not negotiated either, such as pension systems and other things, but it is there.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-297	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that you have values, and in politics you should have ideological glasses. We must have a generous refugee policy, but at the same time we must have a context of realism. Christina Höj Larsen says that it is wrong to lower the thresholds into the labour market. What if, instead, we had said that it is not wrong for people to go on grants? We are trying to say that we must try to get people into the labour market instead of them going on subsidies. That is how they can continue to work for higher wages. One possibility is that you try to create jobs according to an old communist model, where you find different jobs. The alternative is to actually listen to employers. I don't know if Christina Höja Larsen and the Left Party have listened to employers. They say: If there have been a huge number of people who have very low levels of education, we cannot hire them with the wage levels that are today. Then the Social Democrats and the Left Party say that you should subsidise the first part of your salary and let them go to new start jobs, entry jobs or some other kind of subsidised employment. But as soon as that subsidy is removed, the employer does not want the person to remain, because you cannot afford to pay the salary. What, then, is the alternative? We're trying to find alternatives. E xempelvis we in the Christian Democrats propose introductory employment, where you go into a little lower salary but at the latest after five years should be up in ordinary collective agreement salary. What is wrong with not involving state subsidies and leaving it to employers and workers themselves?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-301	Mr President, I would like to Now we are back on the question of how low a salary you really want people to have. As I said before, there is already the possibility of subsidies covering half the salary. I find it very difficult to see why you would want to put it even lower. With regard to finding work, it is quite clear that it has consequences. The Désirée Pethrus party has been part of a government that has reduced taxes by 140 billion for eight years. You think you can't tell? It is noticeable in every municipality and every county council. That money's missing. In addition, a profit withdrawal has been allowed that is completely hair-traveling. That money's missing, too. There's a lot of work to do. I recommend Désirée Pethrus to go out and look in the care of the elderly or in school. There is no shortage of tasks, so that you have to make them up. There's no teacher. It's missing in the care of the elderly. They're missing because you've given a different priority. You have chosen instead to prioritise RUT deductions to those who already have. Instead, we want to give priority to what is for all of us. It's not a finder's job. They're real. I can assure you that there is nothing as real as teachers in our school and employees in care and care for the elderly. What we need to do now is exactly what we have done historically. It is about investing in building society bigger and investing in the people who live here. That's what we need to do.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-306	Mr President, I would like to But if we are to afford higher salaries and better conditions for teachers, police officers and people who work in healthcare, we need to get tax revenue-yes. Christina Höj Larsen talked about the reduced taxes earlier. It sounds like some high - income people have benefited from this. But some were about giving ROT and RUT deductions, which created work. The majority of those who entered those jobs were people who came from long-term unemployment. It was a way to get people into work. In addition, we reduced taxes most for those who had low incomes, because it will pay off to work. But you should also be able to live on your salary. That goes without saying. But what if, finally, the questions are to be put to employers, those who are to create tax revenue? Who will create tax revenue? Yes, unfortunately, it is not the public sector, but others who have to get the money in to the public sector. Let's say they say: Okay, we can accept a person if we get a subsidy. They do. But when the government subsidy disappears, they can't afford to keep the person. Then it's a problem that we have to solve, right? It's too high entry wages," says the employers. Then we must try to find ways of dealing with collective agreements and perhaps have a slightly softer entrance for those who have very low levels of education. Isn't that reasonable? Or does the government have to subsidise? Long-term jobs are not created in this way. We still have several of the subsidised jobs, but I do not think the solution is simply to create more subsidised jobs. As soon as subsidies disappear, jobs for these people will also disappear. That's not how it's supposed to be. We need to find more long-term solutions.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-309	Mr President, I would like to I find it very difficult to really take seriously Members of Parliament who have rather juicy fees and who are standing here recommending that people should have very low salaries. However, if we leave it there, I must say that you, Mr Pethrus, are naturally in the economic straitjacket of your economic policy. You are constantly aiming to reduce taxes on those who already have. After all, that is what has happened. We can look at the OECD measurements during the period when you were in power. The gaps increased more than anywhere else among OECD countries. It's pretty serious. And that is the result of the combination of your tax cuts and what happened in the transfer systems. There's no other explanation. This is not the kind of society we want. You chose to prioritise private consumption of, for example, cleaning services instead of common consumption, which is about things that need to be done and that need to be done. It is about the cleaning in hospitals, the teachers and everything that happens in the care of the elderly. That was a conscious priority. You moved consumption from public to private. That's not what we want to do. We want to create stable and stable jobs by doing the opposite. Sweden has done this before, and we can do it again.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-312	Mr President, I would like to Last year, Sweden received 163 000 asylum seekers. I don't know how the rest of you felt last fall. But my feeling was that Sweden became more lonely and lonely in the EU community. Country after country betrayed its responsibility for the refugee crisis. It will, of course, be untenable. Sweden should take a big responsibility, but Sweden cannot of course take full responsibility. As a result, the government has tightened the asylum rules to a level consistent with other EU countries. It was necessary. Last year we received more asylum seekers than any other OECD country has ever done in relation to the size of the population. It is hardly possible to overestimate the challenges we face and are in the midst of. Our generation is going to do something that no one has ever done before in our country. This concerns all areas of society. It takes a lot of us all. Of course, the demands should primarily be directed at the government, which has the overall responsibility. But there are many others who must share responsibility if we are to succeed. There are of course all parties in parliament, municipalities, social partners, NGOs and many more. We have a better labour market. Jobs are an important route, perhaps the most important one, for you to be able to establish yourself in Sweden, become part of Swedish society, earn your own money, support yourself and start your way to become a full participant in our society with the same obligations and the same rights as everyone else. Of course, it is often difficult for those who are new in a country to establish themselves in a new labour market, which may be very different from the one from which they came. Of course, it is particularly difficult for those with a level of competence that differs significantly from what is normally required to enter the Swedish labour market. We have a group of people with short training. The proportion of people with short education has decreased, but the number has increased, as we received a great many asylum seekers last year. There are those who may never have been allowed to go to school in their home country because they happened to be girls and who come to Sweden when they are 20 or 25 or maybe 30 years old. Of course it's a very long road for them. It will require us to think about new ways and to create new solutions and new paths. I'm clear on that. The existing roads will not be enough to cope with the people who come here with very short training. I have tried to listen to your speeches even though, because of the government meeting, I came a little late to the House. I think that almost everyone has raised the very serious problem of honour-related violence. I share the view that it is an incredibly important issue to deal with. And more needs to be done. My colleague Åsa Regnér will raise the issue in her speech, so I choose not to do so now. I have also heard that most of you have addressed the need for new and simpler ways into the labour market. I share that view. We need new and simpler ways into the labour market for many of those furthest from it, not least new arrivals. But there are people who have lived their whole lives in Sweden and who are also far from the labour market. Although Sweden has the lowest long-term unemployment rate in the EU and although Sweden has the highest employment rate in the EU, we are not satisfied. We need to do more to ensure that those who find it most difficult to enter the labour market do so. I have two comments. I listened to Elisabeth Svantesson, who managed to say that the demands on the individual should be increased when it comes to entering the labour market. Then I have a question: how does it go with the Moderate motion in which, if I have understood it correctly, you demand that those taking part in the establishment mission should be able to earn quite a lot of money within the framework of the establishment mission without losing their remuneration? Other unemployed people are subject to other kinds of demands. There is no question of both keeping the unemployment fund and taking a job. If you get a job, which, of course, we hope and want you to get, it affects how much benefit you can get from unemployment insurance. And how do we ensure that there are incentives to take the jobs? Oh, we demand it. The person who rejects the job offered will lose his or her remuneration. I think this is reasonable. I think it is reasonable that the same demands should be made on all unemployed, whether you are newcomers in Sweden or not. I find it very difficult to understand why the Moderates believe – if I now understand the Moderates' motion correctly – that just new arrivals should have a special incentive to combine the start-up efforts with work, while other unemployed, of course, are affected by whether you get a job and get a salary. I also have a comment and a question for Fredrik Malm. The comment is that I can tell Fredrik Malm that the construction industry and the Construction Workers' Association, together with other parties, have submitted an application for fast track. Work on the fast track is underway, together with these parties. Applications from different parties have been received at different times and took a little longer for them. For some of the applications where the parties were the fastest, the Employment Service might not have been as well as it should have been. For the construction of the fast track to work well, both the parties and the Public Employment Service must be ready. I also have a question for Fredrik Malm. You said this, if I understood you correctly in the line shift: There is undeclared work and exploitation of people in a grey sector in the labour market. Because it does so, the Liberals are voting against the concrete proposals, in order to remedy this and in order to get things right, so that people are not exploited, but instead getting decent, collective wages. If I understood you correctly in the line shift here earlier, you use the fact that there is undeclared work as a reason for the regular white labour market also to have poor wages. Or was there something I did not understand about how that reasoning was connected? Mr President, I would like to Let us manage to have two, or perhaps even more, perspectives at the same time. It's about so many people, and it's a very big challenge for Sweden. I think we need to be able to see that the challenges are very great – it is hardly possible to overestimate them. Housing construction is a huge challenge. The reception in the municipalities is a huge challenge. The school is a huge challenge. Getting short-skilled into the labour market is a huge challenge. But even though the challenges are great, not everything is dark. There are also things that go in the right direction. The proportion of those who come to work or start studying after having joined the start-up assignment is increasing. The fast tracks are up and running. I really must say that employers around the country are opening up their jobs, opening their minds and welcoming new people, new talents and new ways of recruiting. They are doing an amazing job and are an important part of it. One thing that is not yet moving in the right direction, however, is the proportion that moves on to education. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by quoting a column from my local newspaper. It is written by Zakaria Hamta. He's a teenager who last year came from Afghanistan. When he was a child, he used to ask Grandpa about trades in Afghanistan. One thing he wondered was why we girls couldn't go to school. "This is our tradition, " his grandfather replied, explaining that Gud punishes them if they are not good people. Then Grandpa began to explain many things, such as the fact that girls in Afghanistan had to marry before they were eighteen years old, because religion forced them. You absolutely must not listen to music either, because it is haram – forbidden according to the Qur'an. Grandfather said that life was like that when he was born, and he was sure that life would continue like that. Though old, he was not strict with Zakaria when he wondered. Zakaria goes on to say that when I came to Sweden I saw another world, that girls go to school and that they can hang out with guys. Most of his teachers are women. Some women drive cars, buses and trains, and they are ministers. Zakaria's questions to his grandfather have increased and he has begun to wonder more and more why there is so much difference between Sweden and Afghanistan. With great respect for my grandfather, I must say that the old people who live in Afghanistan were not right. Me and some friends are going to invest in education to help us become something important here in Sweden and around the world and in this way we can influence our home country in a good way. ..................................................... I'm glad Zakaria's with us.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-336	Mr President, I would like to This was a strange speech. Not only has the minister responsible – and the minister responsible – not listened to the speeches of the whole opposition, but she claims to have listened to them afterwards. Nor has she prepared a speech in which she presents the government's policy, reading from the local press and starting a shift from the speaker's chair. But okay-- that's also a way. I would venture to read the conclusion of my own speech so that I can ask questions on this basis. Mr President, I would like to I am talking about the construction of the new invention modular house, so-called trailer parks, in Sweden. The government won't do anything to stop the Tokers. The red-green government is reinventing the stratums almost a century after they disappeared. Don't you understand the extent of your decisions? Don't you understand the class marker? Don't you understand the vulnerability? With the government's modular house and trailer parks, we will in future see a segregation, misery and abandonment that we in this country have not come into contact with in over a century. Temporary is the fashion word for the day. We cannot afford and time to build real homes now, in prosperity, despite record government borrowings. But then, in the future, we'll get advice. Then we'll have time to build. This is an unprecedented fundamental betrayal. Of course, there will be neither resources nor opportunities to build real, permanent housing later. On the contrary, all the forecasts indicate that we are moving towards very strained conditions, both for the public and for the private. The homes that were meant to be a temporary solution for some of the most vulnerable groups in society will remain not only in 10 to 20 years' time, but will remain in place even in 30 to 40 years' time. Generations of new inhabitants will grow up in an alienation that we can only imagine, and this is your fault. I think you should be ashamed. Can you explain to me when and how we can afford to build permanent housing to replace these temporary accommodations?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-343	Mr President, I would like to Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström began by asking if I understand the scope of government policy. I would like to return that question. Has Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström seen the reports from Aleppo in any of the news broadcasts in recent days? The people there live in a formidable hell. Does Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström understand the scope of a policy that does not take its share of the international community's responsibility for people exposed to such terrible scenes as we can now see in Aleppo? Modulhus is a good solution for quickly developing housing. Housing construction has increased dramatically in Sweden. We are now in a housing production rate when it comes to apartments that are like in the days of the million-dollar program. What was previously considered almost impossible – to bring up the pace of residential building – we have succeeded, and now the pace of residential building is high. There is no indication that this cannot continue. On the contrary, we see that the forecasts point to a continued very high rate in the construction of permanent dwellings in the coming years. In order to cope with a temporary effort, as it means when many new arrivals must quickly have a chance to become part of Swedish society and start making your own money, so that you can support yourself, you must also have a place to live. I am not afraid to resort to temporary solutions as well. The important thing is to have a policy of building permanent dwellings, not only for new arrivals but for all those who need housing in a country that is characterised by a lack of housing and who have done so for many years.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-349	Mr President, I would like to Yes, what is happening in Aleppo is, of course, terrible. The policy of the Swedish Democrats is to help the majority of those who are now fleeing Aleppo and will be in refugee camps in the immediate area, where there is usually no food, necessary medical equipment and medicine, nor the possibility of schooling for children. I note that the Minister believes that it is Sweden's responsibility once again to take the lead in reception of refugees in Sweden instead of the refugees being able to find themselves elsewhere, which is quite remarkable. Following the Minister's speech – allow me to call it that – and the debate that has been here today gives the impression that last year's 163 000 is the problem of Swedish integration. But that's far from it. That's not even close to the truth. The problems of integration today stem from the time before or around when we had about the same reception as we have this year, about 30 000 asylum seekers. About 2010 – 2011 we had that figure, after which it has been significantly higher. The integration problems we see in Swedish exclusion areas in Swedish society stem from that time or earlier. There are some parties which support the government's budget and think that we need to open up again today, that we have too little reception. I would then like to ask whether the Minister shares the view that 30 000 is too little or whether she thinks it is appropriate. Does the Minister share my view that the majority of those fleeing from Aleppo must receive their help in the immediate area, preferably with Swedish tax funds and preferably through UNHCR, or does she think that the majority of them should go to Sweden and apply for asylum here?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-354	Mr President, I would like to I was very clear, I hope, in my speech that Sweden will take its share of responsibility for people on the run. Sweden cannot take full responsibility in any way, but neither should we close our borders. We'll take our share of responsibility, and we will. Many of those who came last year and even now, who receive a residence permit, are going to establish and integrate in Sweden, are actually coming from Aleppo. We have many new people in Sweden from Aleppo. What is Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström's response to them? You have no policy whatsoever for people who are here, who have fled hell, to have a chance to start their new life here. With your policy of closed borders, we would not be able to support the welfare or the day we grow old.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-357	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your speech. I have a few questions related to this. There is, of course, much to talk about these days and many major challenges, and I am pleased that the Minister mentions that there are problems. Some of the problems we see are found in some parts of Sweden. As I mentioned in my speech, we have 130 neighbourhoods where less than 50% work. It is often the same neighborhoods that the police can hardly go into anymore. There must always be two cops, because one has to guard the police car. You often meet with stones and other things. Most people who live there are honest citizens who only want to live in safety, but they are faced with a tough everyday life. The Government's budget contains a chapter on two pages entitled Action against segregation. When I read this, it makes me think of an old psalm called I can't count them all. It is about how many delegations, investigations and coordinators this government has set up. I believe that there are far more than political reforms. Mr President, I would like to I just have to read a sentence in the budget: the government intends to set up a delegation that will work, among other things, to create jobs, reduce overcrowding and with other measures to improve freedom of choice. We can forget that it is not really proofread, but it makes me ask a question. For eight years in opposition, you have had great opportunities to develop powerful reforms to meet the many challenges and problems that exist in Sweden. What is this delegation going to do? Would it not be better to put forward concrete proposals at Parliament's table on how to reduce segregation in these areas than to set up another delegation?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-362	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Elisabeth Svantesson that it is better to make concrete proposals. That is also why we do it and have done it all the time. We have put forward concrete proposals and see a reduction in unemployment. We have put forward concrete proposals and see an increase in employment. We have put forward concrete proposals and investment in schools and welfare is increasing. We make huge investments in school, and the results of the school are reversed. I will not say that it is because of our investments, because I think it may be investments a little further back, too. But things are finally moving a little in the right direction when it comes to school. Housing construction, an important issue, has finally taken off properly. We invest in infrastructure, and we invest in climate change – climate change may not directly relate to the vulnerable areas. But we make many of the important investments that are necessary and play a role. More cops are being hired. This is exactly what needs to be done to break segregation, so I share that view. The delegation's work will have Ibrahim Baylan, who is responsible for it, to answer more closely. I can also say that I share the view that the wording of the budget proposal is not very successful. It is the concrete proposals that are important. However, we see many times that different parts of society that we think should reasonably cooperate still do not. Thus, different things fall between the chairs, between the state and the municipality, between the municipality and the non-profit sector or between the labour market and other actors. There we need to make efforts to strengthen the work of getting the good forces to work together. I would like to ask Elisabeth Svantesson a question: How do the Moderates mean? Why should new arrivals be stimulated to work by being able to have double benefits, both remuneration and pay, while we are making demands on other unemployed people? If they refuse the job offered, they lose their remuneration. Why treat differently?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-371	Mr President, I would like to The satisfied Minister for Labour came back here for a while when she told us about everything that is going well in Sweden. I share the picture that there is a lot going well. We are booming and unemployment is falling. I would just like to remind everyone who is listening to the debate right now that we have had a year with this government's budget. One should be careful to take credit for what reforms this government has carried out that have led to these jobs? We need new and easy ways into the labour market, said the Minister for Labour earlier. Then my question is: What new and simpler roads? I do not see this in the budget. We have talked in the past fast track, and I would really like to emphasise that it is a good effort. Even if it's slow, it's a good effort. But much more is needed at this point. I can only highlight two things that the government can do tomorrow. Merge employment support from eight to one, making it easier to get in! Faced with a new form of employment, so that people who find it difficult to get into the labour market more easily get into work! We want a form of employment in LAS. So you can live on that salary, for it is also tax free up to $15,000. I think it is a pity that some representatives here do not read budgets properly. Finally, job stimulation: Yes, I am very well aware that this government does not like to make it more profitable to move from unemployment to work. The Alliance introduced a job stimulus, but the government removed it. We believe that people should be asked, as I talked a lot about in my speech, to make themselves employable. But people also need support to be employable. We need to make it more profitable to break the dependency on subsidies. Then it must always pay better to take a job than not.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-378	Mr President, I would like to In terms of easier access to the labour market, there are several different tools that can be used. One is subsidised employment provided by the A rbetsförmedlingen. There are too many forms of support today, and it is not certain that they are optimally designed. They have played an important role, do and will certainly do so in the future, but we are reviewing them to make them better designed and easier to understand and use. The second tool to make it easier for people to get across the threshold is to invest in education. The government has invested a lot of resources in expanding the education system. But I will honestly say that so far we have not seen any increase in the proportion of newcomers entering education. After the two years of the start-up assignment, about 5 per cent progresses to regular training. I think it is very low, especially as I know it is the highly educated who are the 5%, not the low-skilled. It is sometimes said here that education is not the solution to all problems, and it is not, but it is a solution to a lot of problems. 5 percent is awfully low. Perhaps the figure will be up to 6 or 7%, but it is still very low. Education is an important way of overcoming thresholds, but which is not yet being exploited, I must say. The third is the traditional way in Sweden. This is because the parties agree that those who do not yet know the job have a lower salary and a training at work. We have such systems, and they work well. Now we have a new challenge. Now there are people who are not yet trained and who are further away from the labour market than those for whom the systems are built. They may be of a different sex and age than is usually accepted. This is a major challenge for the parties that I expect the parties to be able to cope with. New ways must be built where you pay and train based on the conditions people have to learn the job and do the job.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-383	Mr President, I would like to It is nice to have the ministers in the debate. The Christian Democrats have two proposals for integration. One is the asylum programme, to which I will return. The second is introductions to speed up for the group with wage levels below 22 000. According to Konjunkturinstitutet, there are all those who have work without the requirement of upper secondary school education. Today there are fast tracks, trainee services, the 100-club and new start jobs. However, many evaluations show that neither the Employment Service nor the individual employers are able to deal with all the regulatory problems. The Arbetsförmedlingen said on TV the other day that there was not a single assigned to the graduate services in Södertälje. Why is that? There's got to be a reason. Either care and care don't want to receive or the construction is complicated. Another measure is career introductions. The Arbetsförmedlingen website says: You get a salary equal to 75 per cent of the salary in the collective agreement, depending on how much of the working time is supervision and education. You'll get a salary to learn a trade. That's great. The problem is that there is a lot of problems with age limits, how long you should have been unemployed and so on. The Christian Democrats' proposal is for employers and workers to decide for themselves. You can start at 75% of your salary and be introduced over a period of time. The government's action is exempt from LAS, but our proposal goes into LAS directly and becomes infused. What is the big difference?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-389	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Mrs Pethrus that efforts during the period of asylum are important. But we must also see with open eyes what is happening. The time for asylum is now fairly short. The Migration Agency is working on as it alone, and waiting times and times in the asylum system are dramatically decreasing. This is, of course, a good thing, but it means that we will soon have quite a few asylum seekers, but many who have been granted a residence permit and are waiting to be placed in a municipality. Now the focus should be shifted from asylum time to reception. How do the Christian Democrats want to help so that more municipalities can receive new arrivals more quickly who have received their residence permits so that they can start SFI and everything else that is important for the establishment? I don't know if I understood Désirée Pethrus correctly. Occupational introductions are contractual employments where there is the possibility of a subsidy via Arbetsförmedlingen. We have increased the subsidy so that it does not comply with age limits but also applies to others. Now more and more contract areas are coming in and signing new agreements. Most recently, the industry, which opens up its career introductions without age restrictions, was the industry. I think career introductions are a good model. I think it's gonna grow. Many of its forms take some time to grow up, but I think it's a good way to build. We will need to see more solutions of this nature, combining employment with learning. Of course, it affects the level of wages and salaries how much of the time you actually do a job.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-393	Mr President, I would like to Our proposal is not just about asylum seekers but about all those who have low levels of education. It is a great challenge how we can get them to work quickly. We see introductory employment as an opportunity.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-395	Several have previously asked: How low a salary can you have? In career introduction employment you can obviously have 75 per cent of collective bargaining salary. In the case of the unskilled group, employers and employees could solve this themselves. We propose that subsidies to employers should not even be included, as is done in the government's programme. I think the government should look at our proposal and seriously consider it. It's not that big a difference, but it'll take away all the rules. Our second proposal is the asylum programme. Are we really going to start with regular sfi, social orientation and some kind of employment during the asylum period? Yes, we think it is reasonable that people not only go and wait to get their residence permits but start day one. It has been the case that the Red Cross has held the SFI, and the fast track has come to pass. But we believe that when you come to Sweden you should have a six-month introduction to Swedish society. It should be about Swedish values, about Swedish society and other things that you need to be introduced into. One gets social orientation but also employment from day one so that one does not become passive. It's fast to passivate. We see this when long-term ills are to be helped back to work. What does the Minister say about an asylum programme where, from day one, you start with sfi, you have some kind of employment and you participate in a social orientation programme for six months?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-401	Mr President, I would like to How low a salary can you have, asks Désirée Pethrus. I think there is a fundamental misunderstanding. Pay is what you get for work done. What a wage you get has to do with how much productive work you have done. For example, if you have had a large proportion of training during your employment period, it is not obvious that you have a salary. Few LO members are spoiled with having a salary during the training period. It is rather other groups that have a little more favourable opportunities to study with retained pay. This is sometimes mixed up in the debate. Of course, employment, which consists essentially of training, does not pay the same amount of money as if a job had been carried out at 100%. The salary is linked to the work done. But the work you do should have a decent wage for. This is an important principle for the government. It is this government that has introduced early intervention during the period of asylum. It didn't exist before. We have invested in Swedish from day one and in large resources for the voluntary society. In the budget there are new large resources for early intervention, because we think it is important to take action already during the period of asylum. However, I say no to a six-month programme during the asylum period, because we shall have no asylum periods of six months. We are now coming down quickly in shorter processing times and hope to be down to levels that are significantly lower than six months. It's good for everyone.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-405	Mr President, I would like to It is welcome that the Minister is here when we debate budgetary issues. A number of actions and measures have been taken and are on the roll. There are skills mapping, validation and fast track. Subsidised employment and the like are available to help and support access the labour market as soon as possible. The Minister has set the goal that it will take a maximum of two years to enter the labour market. Today it takes on average 3 to 5 years for men and double for women, so just as the Minister describes it is a huge challenge. I did not hear any answers about the Minister and the Government's view that what has now been put in place actually responds to the challenge that is being addressed. If we look at the fast track, we see that there have been many concerns and problems, despite the fact that the companies and industries have been very keen to be involved in developing it so that it leads to jobs. In many of the studies we can see that one does not reach all the way through. My question to the Minister is: Is there enough effort? Otherwise, the budget would need more than we see today in order to achieve the objective of shortening the time for establishment.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-410	Mr President, I would like to The time to get to work is relatively high. It takes up to eight years to reach an employment rate close to that of the native population. It can be seen in two different ways: Is the glass half full or half empty? We stand well in European comparison and international comparison as regards the possibility of getting to work. We are doing well in comparison with other countries, in fact better than many others, which I must say has even surprised me. However, I am not satisfied that we should be a mediocre country or even a little better than average. I want us to be very much better than other countries at getting people to work, not least in view of the fact that we have a much higher employment rate than most other countries. That's why I want us to perform a lot more. The answer to the question is: Yes, more efforts will be needed. Of course it is; it has been clear all along. In order to combat unemployment, a number of different measures are needed. One must be prepared to change because the labour market is changing. This means that what worked for a certain time may not work in another. The needs that existed at one time look different at another. The classic problem of labour market policy is that it is not sufficiently responsive to the changes in need and conditions, but remains with the same policies regardless of reality. That is why new proposals must be made all the time and perhaps we must back away from others who are no longer relevant. The government will continue to do so. Not least when it comes to new arrivals, it is quite clear that we need to do this. We have already pointed out where the needs are greatest, and that is among the short-skilled new arrivals. In that group, a large majority are women. It's women who never got the chance because they were born girls, but they're gonna get the chance right here and now.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-415	Mr President, I would like to It is good to set high goals and have high ambitions. I welcome that. We can see that if we compare with the rest of the EU, there is one thing in which Sweden differs: we have a two-tier labour market and very few simple jobs. We discussed this earlier. We have slightly different views and approaches, but I think that in this sense one needs to think about what one can do, which way one can go and what one can introduce that would open up for more people to enter the labour market. If it is positive that the Minister for Employment and the Government have high ambitions to be the best, it is just as sad that we have a government that has chosen to be the worst when it comes to the possibility of family reunification and the possibility for unaccompanied minors and young people to continue their lives here after three years. Now they are being flown back to Afghanistan, where they have no one to welcome or receive them. It's a very uncertain situation. Perhaps the Minister of Labour read the chronicle about Mustafa Naubi and was pleased that he was still there. I have an article here about him. The night before yesterday, he was flown back to Afghanistan. He had made an appointment with his Swedish mother, but he didn't even get to see her one last time to give her a hug before he was flown out. Somewhere you can feel: where are the ambitions in this area when it comes to not choosing to be the worst and worst in our European Community on these issues?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-419	Mr President, I would like to I think Annika Qarlsson knows me so well that she knows that I have no ambition whatsoever that Sweden should be the worst or the worst. On the contrary, from the first day, the government has put all its weight into ensuring that we have a shared share and responsibility within the European Union. If we have it, Europe can take on a great deal of responsibility. What we saw last autumn was that country after country betrayed. I think it hurt as much in Annika Qarlsson as in me that we ended up in a situation where Sweden was left almost alone. It wasn't sustainable. At that time, politics had to be tightened up because the situation was becoming completely untenable. I defend that policy – it was absolutely necessary. There is no self-interest in having the worst policy. On the contrary, we are still working very hard to take joint responsibility within the European Union. It is sad to see that some Member States are flagrantly failing the common responsibility and solidarity that I believe is a necessity in a common union such as the European Union. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a lower proportion of jobs with low qualification requirements than other countries. For a person with short education and low qualifications, the probability of having a job is very much greater in Sweden than in the other EU countries. You can choose to see it in two different ways, as you can so often. Sweden thus succeeds better than other countries in getting people with short education and low qualifications into the labour market. That does not mean that we have done enough in terms of the challenges we are now facing. We're going to have to do more, but some things we're already doing right.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-424	Mr President, I would like to That's great. It is great that the Government makes it clear that the Building Workers' Association has submitted an application to participate in fast track. This good n yhet had escaped everyone in here. M one I've been looking for, and that's right. It happened at the end of November. There has not been much talk about it, but it is very positive. The ability to change opinions separates the wise from the stubborn, there is a saying that reads. It's a good place. Mr President, I would like to In her speech, which seemed to be more about asking me questions than about telling me about government policy, she asked a little rhetorical if there was anything in my discussion about undeclared work that she had not understood. Yes, it is. If you have too high thresholds into the labour market, too many regulations and too high taxes, it will create a breeding ground for a growing black sector in society. That is the logic of the market. The problem is that we have many people in Sweden who do not get into the regular labour market and have to cope with life in other ways. It's problematic. The RUT deduction and other types of reforms aim to make some of the jobs white. We in the Liberals are very much in favour of trying in various ways to get people to move from undeclared work and precarious employment, where they do not pay taxes, where they are not covered by rights or by union involvement and where they risk being systematically exploited by ruthless employers, to real jobs where they pay taxes, get pension credits and so on. The government is doing its utmost to prevent this development by having higher thresholds, which is regrettable.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-429	Mr President, I would like to It is true, and you should pay tribute to the previous government for the fact that the RUT deduction has helped to do black jobs white. We have seen this development, and it has been positive and good. That is one of the reasons why we still have the RUT deduction and also extend it to more areas. It is a model that can be used to facilitate more easy access to the labour market. That's how it works. On the other hand, I believe that one must still dare to see that there are unscrupulous villains out there, who are using people in an unhemly way. These are poor working conditions, poor working environment and poor wages. The most important answer to people or companies who commit crimes is not reduced taxes but reprisals and that action is taken against them. It must make it increasingly difficult to commit these crimes or to live in this grey sector. I believe that the Liberals there are guilty of the answer. What do you want to do, in addition to reducing tax, to actually tackle the serious problems that exist in the Swedish labour market? These are some sectors in which the absence of order can be said to be significant. In the construction sector, the transport sector and the hotel and restaurant sector, we see that there are quite a large number of grey companies.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-433	Mr President, I would like to Oh, my God! Sweden is a rule of law. Nobody's questioning this, right? Of course, exploiting people in violation of the law is illegal, and it should be suppressed. I don't think we have any differences of opinion. That is why I do not quite understand this reasoning. Mr President, I would like to The Government says: We extend the RUT deduction. It's a truth with modification. This is a consequence of the Migration Agreement. The Government also said earlier here: We introduced Swedish education during the period of asylum. It is also part of the Migration Agreement. We're all from the Alliance and from the government agreed on that. I just have to note how Ylva Johansson almost tear-dropping and with tremendous emphasis argued in previous replicas about the children in Aleppo. This comes from a government that just a few months ago enforced legislation that means that a child in Aleppo who has relatives in Sweden should not be allowed to reunite with them. It is a bit difficult to understand that legislation is being put forward which means that children must not come here and that those who manage to come to Sweden should receive only 13 months' temporary residence permits, which makes integration very difficult, while at the same time the Government has this tremendous emotional commitment to the Syrians. You've closed the door for a lot of them. That's the truth. And those who get in have problems with their integration. My final question to the Government is: Can the Government explain how 13 months of temporary residence permits are better for integration than, for example, three years of temporary residence permits? We in our party have accepted the existence of temporary residence permits as the overarching principle of asylum policy. We accept that. But we think that 13 months is too short for temporary residence permits to achieve successful integration.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-442	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to curbing undeclared work and the exploitation of people in the labour market, we also need to be prepared to pass the laws that make it possible to access these people. The government has today decided on a legislative referral to tear up lex Laval, so that in future we will be able to meet the Commission's and the EU's demands for Sweden to be able to protect posted workers. The Postings Directive is a protection directive. This means that Sweden as a country is obliged to ensure that posted workers receive minimum wage when working here. With the current lex Laval, this is not possible with the Swedish labour market model, but it requires legislation on minimum wage and the introduction of labour inspectors. These are examples of what must be done if we are also serious about tackling the grey sector, shadow society and undeclared work. I hope that Fredrik Malm and the Liberals will consider these issues carefully. Because we will have to make a lot of efforts to get the labour market in order. The RUT deduction is one, but it also needs sharper instruments to deal with those who exploit people. Mr President, I would like to I'm going to reveal something to Fredrik Malm. It is possible to have a very great emotional commitment to people living in hell in Aleppo and wish for a more generous asylum policy, but also to realise that Sweden, with the development that we have and with regard to the other Member States of the European Union, cannot stand up alone for an asylum policy that essentially differs from the rest of the European Union. It is insight that we came up with last autumn and that I stand up for. But it does hurt to see people in Syria. That is why we must work every day to ensure that the entire international community takes greater responsibility for the refugee situation.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-449	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a feminist government. Through our policies, we want to make a difference in people's lives. Politics should lead to positive change in people's everyday lives, and our priorities, choices and allocation of resources should contribute to the goal that women and men, girls and boys should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. The government's overall policy should lead to gender equality because it is right and smart. Gender equality leads to economic growth and to a more equal society as well. I meet many women almost every day who work in elderly care and social services — often hardworking women. We are really serious when we turn to women in the public and private sectors, who are supporting a large part of our society and our welfare. That is why, since we took office, we have taken a long series of decisions that lead to greater equality and that really improve conditions. We will continue to do so, as this is an important part of the Swedish model and our social model. We are serious that we want to involve boys and men in gender equality work. Equality policy is also for boys and men. Gender equality policy must therefore have a real impact on people's lives, and the resources invested must produce results. The need for a gender equality authority is well founded in a number of investigations. Nevertheless, we have heard here, among other moderate representatives, question the authority. It has also happened that this House has made fun of itself, despite the fact that the previous government invested quite a lot of resources in gender equality. But we cannot see a lasting outcome of this policy in the long term. We can't measure it. In addition, it was the previous government that ordered these documents. Laughing at gender equality policy proposals has a long patriarchal and conservative tradition. You can see it in the television series Miss Friman's war. Elisabeth Svantesson spoke here earlier about history. I have thought a lot about it when, at the same time in the present time, many people want to stand up for Swedish values in the debate and make a direct link to gender equality. Of course, I don't mind. But history has shown that it was in fact certain parties, including my own party, that, together with the women's movement, put forward gender equality proposals and that met with severe resistance. It was about things that most people in Sweden today take as a matter of course. Individual taxation and the right to abortion have in fact been opposed by several parties in this House. The Swedish Democrats are still opposed to many of these issues. We must want something in the area of gender equality. Women should have half the power and the entire salary. Women's employment rates are increasing at the moment, and opportunities for more secure employment are also increasing. Full time must be the norm, and we have recently seen agreements on this between the social partners. The fastest rate of growth in employment is currently being seen among women born abroad, but it is from too low levels. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that women, like men, are working more than ever at present regardless of their background. Salary surveys for equal pay will be carried out each year from the end of the year. The obligation on employers to promote gender balance in management positions through different measures is also clarified. Pay differentials are decreasing at the moment, but they are progressing too slowly. The government has earmarked an additional month in parental insurance and – fortunately – removed the custody allowance. The Employment Service has been tasked with combating gender segregation in the labour market. In the letter Power, goal and authority, the government proposes two new sub-objectives for gender equality policy: equal health and education. The other four sub-objectives remain. They concern:
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-462	. that men's violence against women should cease. This policy covers, of course, and also takes into account other power regimes. For example, politics includes a clear LGBT perspective. The areas of honor-related violence and oppression, prostitution and human trafficking are particularly highlighted. We focus on men's responsibility for and participation in gender equality work, as well as preventive work to prevent inequality and violence against women. Sweden has a feminist government, and it is noticeable. In the strategy against violence against women we are presenting, we have a number of strong proposals, and I will mention a few. We will change the degree descriptions for relevant educations so that the knowledge of violence against women increases. We have efforts aimed at men who practice violence against women in order to prevent violence, and this also applies to violence in the name of honour. We have set up an investigation into children's legal status in sheltered housing, and we focus on information about gender equality and sexual and reproductive rights for newly arrived asylum seekers young people. We will identify honour-related violence, and we will evaluate the legislation on child marriage. We will also look at whether honorary motives can be the basis for punishment. Equality should apply to everyone. Equality is a human right. I will shortly be inviting you to a national collection against honour-related violence and repression with relevant actors. Mr President, I would like to Finally, many people, both women and men, look with concern at much that is happening in the world today. Human rights and gender equality issues are not always at the top of the global agenda. The rights of young girls and women in particular are being questioned in many contexts. Many people look at Sweden in these times, and what we do in the field of gender equality is important also in the world. I have personally worked on gender equality issues throughout my adult life, and I and the government will continue to fight intensely against the deep inequalities that inequality actually entails. Gender equality is a freedom project, in Sweden and in the world, and many – older and young, of all genders – yearn for that freedom. I hope that we can turn concerns into confidence in the future through intensive work on gender equality – preferably together.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-469	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for taking part in the debate; it is always very welcome. I believe that this is one of the issues in which we in this House are close in many ways. We have very similar goals but sometimes a little different ways to achieve the goals. I'm not going to talk about what we agree on, because we agree on a great deal – but mention a few issues I'm thinking about. In my speech, I mentioned my grandmother Fanny and my grandmother Matilda. They were born at a time when women did not have the right to vote. It took my grandmother 29 years to vote. Many victories have been won since then, as the Government mentioned, and many have gone ahead. Many victories have also been won only during the time I have lived, which is almost 50 years. I am grateful to everyone who has taken the lead in different parties and, of course, within the labour movement. It is very good that has been done. However, we live here and now, 2016. I sometimes worry about the debate – for good reason, of course, I think myself. Quotation to company boards and a gender equality authority has been highlighted as the primary, and my thinking and what I would like to hear from the Government about the text is what are the biggest challenges. What is the next victory to win, and what is the most important victory to win? Or is it about, which I believe, that the victories that have been won will benefit everyone? There are many women in Sweden who are not allowed to take part in the profits that many of us, both men and women, have received. I see that many women I meet live far from the equality they are entitled to. They live far from the rights they have. It is usually about women, and they are limited by men in different types of structures. Sometimes oppression is violent, and sometimes it is another type of oppression. I see that this is the biggest gender equality challenge, and I want to hear from the Government what is now the most important victory to win. Or is it about equal opportunities for all?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-474	Mr President, I would like to That quotas to company boards would be the government's most important proposal is what you say, Elisabeth Svantesson. Fredrik Malm has also said that this is a very important issue for the government. It is a proposal we are making in the area of gender equality, and we are doing so precisely in the light of the need to have proposals in the area of gender equality. Equality does not come by itself. This does not resolve itself by itself, and it is seen that things are going too slowly – and that the fact that things are going too slowly affects the democracy we have – politics needs to do something. That is my firm opinion, and against this background we have, among other things, put forward proposals on quotas for company boards. I, who have worked on this for a long time, know that everything is connected, but if I have to choose an issue that I think is the most important one, it is women's – and men's – conditions in women-dominated sectors of the labour market. That is why the government has also tried to support the model we have, in which the social partners, for example, set salaries, by allocating 2 billion to care for the elderly. It is the biggest investment ever made on staffing in elderly care. It is about being able to organise the work in a different way, that there should be less stress and that you should be able to support the elderly in a better way. The reports I receive also show that it actually leads to that. In addition, we have allocated 1 billion to social services and social care for children and young people. It was a very neglected area when we took office. It is a women-dominated sector in the labour market, and I believe that these funds are extremely important for women – as it is often, but preferably also men – to choose to work and stay there. We have also increased the maintenance support and the housing supplement and in many different ways supported sectors of society and the labour market where many of the women with the worst conditions are present. I think that is an incredibly important question.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-478	Mr President, I would like to I share the Minister for Gender Equality's view that this is an important issue. If you had to rank, I'd put it in first place or second place. Nevertheless, I would like to mention why I think the issue of women born abroad is so important. Because they have no voice. They have no trade union and no one to speak for them. The isolated women I meet have sometimes ended up in an SFI class after seven, eight, nine or ten years. They can barely speak Swedish, and few see them. There are few who speak for them. There are few who speak for young girls who get married during the summer holidays. That is why I think that question is so important. Let me give you some practical examples. I think that we should introduce a really mandatory social information for everyone who comes new to Sweden. Many do not participate in it today. Not that I believe everyone will be equal because they participate in it, but you will find out what applies and what rights you have as a woman. The authorities have a very important task to treat women and men equally; the Public Employment Service has had that task for many, many years. It's nothing new, but they don't. What's the minister gonna do about it? The Finnish Immigration Service's own reports say that the agency treats men and women differently. You write it yourself! Men are called to asylum talks before women, men are often allowed to take care of the economy and so on. The state contributes to an inequality that I think is unhappy. If I am now going to say something about women and the working environment, I am absolutely convinced that, as the Minister says, it is important. We are spending a great deal of money on it in our draft budget. It may shock many on the other side that we spend more money than the government on, for example, the Swedish Work Environment Authority, and we do so with a particular focus on women's work environment. Impairment rates among women are increasing and social ill-health is increasing. Many women bear enormous responsibilities. More needs to be done here, not just from an employer's perspective. The trade unions have a huge responsibility. Here we need to put an increased focus. I think it is a pity that the government has completed the important task of focusing on women's work environment that we gave to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, because I think that work would need to continue.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-484	Mr President, I would like to Gender equality should of course apply to everyone, as I also said in my introduction – also foreign born, new arrivals and people who have lived here for a long time. However, I object to the suggestion that the declaration would be that the majority society would be clear in terms of equality, but that there would be others who need equality. It's not like that! There is no evidence to show that this would be the case. That is why we must have general and specific measures. Therefore, for example, we have a programme now to reach newcomers with knowledge of gender equality and sexual and reproductive rights in Sweden, which I mentioned. I fully agree that the integration of women born abroad into the labour market is extremely important. That is why I am concerned that women born abroad are far behind. But it's good that they're introduced. I'd be happy to take the gender equality story with me. It is important to understand what Sweden looks like today. Gender equality policy is very much based on women as well as men having their own income and work. We sometimes forget about it in the debate. As far as my own systems, such as financial support for social services, are concerned, I do not want to see any kind of understanding that the tradition of people with foreign background would mean that, unlike men, women need to be at home and not work or such. I fully agree that it is important to conduct this dialogue. I know that the Minister for Labour also does so with the Employment Service. I have also done so myself when I have visited employment services in the country. As far as agencies are concerned, we have expanded the mandate on gender mainstreaming. Over 40 agencies are now working on these issues, including the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Public Employment Service. And they have done the analysis themselves that they need to do more. It is important that we treat women and men, women and women, men and men equally.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-491	Mr President, I would like to Johan, Lars, Patrik, Torbjörn, Jan, Jim, Joakim, Jonas, Kenneth, Kim, Lars, Magnus, Morgan, Thomas, Tomas and Fredrik – these are the first names of those who sit on the Board of Buildings. My simple question is: why does the government not want it to be quotad? Can the Minister for Gender Equality answer that? Mr President, I would like to We Liberals argued strongly that the Alliance Government should set up a gender equality inquiry. It was done. The investigation has proposed the creation of a gender equality authority. We welcome that. We regard ourselves as a feminist party. We believe that there is a need for a single authority, not least for analytical work and some other things. So we welcome it. In the letter that has come, however, we cannot understand why the government wants to transfer the mission of honour-related violence and repression from the County Administrative Board in Östergötland to the new authority. There are several reasons why we cannot understand it. First of all, the issues of honour are not just a question of equality. It's more cross-sectional than that. There is a LGBT dimension in this. There is a dimension between parent collectives and children and so on. It is not just a question of equality. In particular, an authority should focus more on analysis, statistics and such horizontal issues and may not address issues of a more operational and partly police nature, linked to social services and other matters. There is a risk of fragmentation and damage to the activities that have been built up.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-496	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I do not think it is good to have male dominance and possible patriarchal structures, either in trade unions or in other organisations. Why do you think, Fredrik Malm, that it is good that men are allocated informally and non-transparently to company boards – as it is today – if you think it is wrong to have formal and transparent quotas for women to company boards? I'd like to hear your point of view. As far as the authority is concerned, there is a great deal of evidence. You said yourself you ordered an investigation. The Swedish National Audit Office also reviewed your gender equality policy and found that you had started many good things and that it had contributed to a debate. It's important. On the other hand, they found that there was no long-term impact, including on violence against women. You put quite a lot of money into the work against it. That's why we've gone on, among other things, the investigation's proposal. There is clearly a need for more professional governance in the area of gender equality. In all the documents it is said that the work, in the absence of an authority, has been extended to many actors. It has, of course, benefited Sweden. We have a high level of equality compared to many other countries. There is therefore a good and professional work done in the country, in many different places. You mentioned examples of that yourself. Our ambition, of course, is to reinforce it, as is also proposed in the supporting documents, by bringing together and coordinating and thereby achieving a much less fragmented implementation of gender equality policy than today. That is the very idea of this.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-501	Mr President, I would like to It is deeply disturbing that Sweden still has major problems with inequality. There is some kind of reproduction of sex stereotypes or monosex boards. It's definitely a big problem. But even if you turn and turn this around, the question is whether it is the shareholders or Åsa Regnér who will decide over the boards. Is it Building members or Åsa Regnér who will be in charge of the board? My view and that of Liberals is that we say no to quotas on company boards. However, we cannot understand why quotas should not be held on trade union boards if it is so important to have quotas on company boards. Can Åsa Regnér explain why you should have quotas in a private company but not in Building? What kind of logic is that? Why should Building have 14 – 0 for men year after year, but everyone else should be pushed there through legislation to change their mind? As far as the equality authority is concerned, our proposal, which I think is better, is to establish permanent and national coordination of issues relating to honour-related violence and repression. This is not just a question of equality. There are other perspectives – children's perspective, LGBTQ perspective and so on. It's getting wider. Moreover, there is no risk of fragmentation of the skills built up. I read this more like Åsa Regnér has problems getting funding for the agency. Then you take a little from the county administrative board and a little from some universities where there are different projects and merge it into an authority. But the risk is that you break functioning operations. That's our criticism.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-506	Mr President, I would like to Foreign delegations asking if Sweden's gender equality policy believes that Sweden has a tradition of legislation on quotas. We haven't. We have no legislation on quotas. We have what we can call voluntary quotas, for example in politics. I noted earlier that Fredrik Malm's own party has a male dominance right now. I assume you're taking action or thinking about it. This is usually how you work on these issues, in parliamentary groups and elsewhere. We have no intention of introducing political quotas. There are countries that have it, to get more women into decision-making positions. We want a proposal for more women on company boards because major decisions are made there. It is decisions that have implications, for example, for environmental issues, consumer issues or whatever it may be. Although women are in a large majority among those who graduate with an academic degree, women are in a minority, which is due to inequality. One third of all managers in Sweden are women. Despite this, you do not think that you can find any women when recruiting for the company boards. That's a problem. The debate has been known for a long time. You say you want to do something. But it's going too slow. Then we think it is an important issue that we, as in other countries – including in Germany – make a proposal like this. This is a democratic problem that remains. As far as the agency is concerned, I don't think you've done your homework. The very thing about the agency is to strengthen the work done in Sweden. The work in the field of gender equality policy is fragmented. There are many good parts, good work and many competent people, and we want to bring this together in order to have a greater overall effect.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-513	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by thanking the Government for being here. There has been a long morning in this House. I can see that out of 54 minutes we have now been debating for three hours and 20 minutes, but we have a little bit of time before we are finished. In terms of gender equality, major efforts were made in the alliance government years to promote women's entrepreneurship. We took promotion measures to create the conditions for more women to dare to take the step. But there were also a number of reforms in which we opened up sectors where the majority of those who work are women. This would give women the opportunity to set up and run businesses. We invested in Vinnova, Almi, Ambassador's network, RUT, LOV, board power training and many other types of actions. It also produced results, for many women dared to take the step in those years. However, the current government has systematically managed with surgical precision to remove every small effort and measure that exists in the promotion part to increase women's entrepreneurship. The basic prerequisites for setting up and running businesses in these sectors are also being addressed. Then I am thinking of the investigation that Ilmar Reepalu presented a little while ago. The Government of Åsa Regnér says: It does not solve itself by itself. Thinking that women's entrepreneurship is going to work itself out and not realize what huge efforts are needed to change that kind of thing makes me a little concerned. I would like to hear what the Government's view is on the government's systematic approach to disadvantaging women's entrepreneurship.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-518	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I find it fun to debate, and it is important to do so. I cannot answer that question because we do not have such a system to dismantle women's entrepreneurship. Why would we have it? The fact that women, like men, work and earn their own money in Sweden is extremely important. If you want to and can do it through your own business, it's all good. That is our attitude. I am pleased with many of the efforts made by the previous government in this area. The previous government did a lot in the area of gender equality. Several of these efforts are continuing and we will continue to work on this issue. I don't have much more to say about it.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-522	Mr President, I would like to That's not true. You're not going on. Such a brilliant venture as board power training, for example, is gone. The missions and initiatives are gone. Somewhere I get even more concerned when the Government says: No, we haven't. We're not talking about anything. That suggests an ignorance. Many times you accuse others of not wearing the right glasses, of not seeing and not understanding, and I also hear that from the Government. I'm worried about that. Another point that I would like to raise when I have the opportunity and opportunity is linked to the letter that came the other week with efforts on the one hand to extend the objectives, which we welcome, and on the other to the strategy. But you should also create a new authority. We have long said from the Center Party that we see that there is a great need to ensure that there is support for methodological development, exchange of experience, achievement of objectives and follow-up in the field of gender equality. We want an authority to be given that responsibility, but we do not want to create a new authority that will become the leading authority in that area. It is extremely important that each authority has its mission and responsibility so that it cannot hide behind anything else. What is also described in the letter is that the institutions, networks and environments that have been built up for a long time, not only during the time of the alliance government, should be split up. NCK in Uppsala was founded in 1994. In 2007, the whole House agreed to give NCK a rich mandate. Picking parts from these to fill in a new authority would break structures and bring the work back, which I think would be unfortunate. Instead, we should continue to work on the structures that already exist today.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-527	Mr President, I would like to I maintain that we believe that women, like men, should start businesses. Women are in the minority among entrepreneurs. It's a problem that we need to work on more. I have to do that with the Minister for Enterprise. We do not disagree on this. As far as the authority is concerned, other authorities and county boards will still have a gender equality mission. After all, we have strengthened the JIM mission, Gender mainstreaming in government agencies, to over 40 agencies. They shall retain these tasks. As far as I know, gender equality policy is the only area that does not have an implementation and follow-up authority for the policy area. In the absence of this, questions have been raised in many other areas. That is exactly what you want to remedy. When your gender equality policy has been evaluated, it has been seen that you started a lot. If I'm not mistaken, you spent 2.1 billion over an eight-year period. Of this money, about half went to violence against women, but no effect can be seen. Violence against women has not diminished. One cannot see the long-term impact of gender equality policy. That's got to be a problem. In the evidence we have, it is said that an authority that implements, that follows up, that stays together, that has that mission separately and that gathers the good expertise that we have in Sweden will improve gender equality work. I believe that, as does the women's movement, and the profession believes in that. I believe that this is what we need to strengthen and professionalise the implementation of equality policy.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-533	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the fact that the Government is here to take part in the debate, despite the fact that it has taken so long. First of all, I intend to address the issue of honour-related violence. I am pleased that the Government intends to make a more concerted effort in this area. After all, the Alliance government produced a specific national action plan, as we had called for in the past. Recently, on Twitter, I got in touch with a woman from an asylum home in Blekinge. She says: The women are trapped, the men go out. But the women are still in prison. What are you doing? Sweden is probably the world's most equal country. How can this continue? My question to the Government is: What is the Government doing to ensure that all women receive the gender equality initiatives that we are so beautifully talking about here? And how are we to prevent this from continuing in Swedish society? In a previous study, 70,000 say you can't marry anyone you want. With the large influx of new arrivals, it will increase even more. It can't be like that. As I have mentioned here today, we have had a proposal for a special unit, like the British, which works against honour violence and, above all, against forced marriages. There are various types of court orders to be able to bring home abducted girls from other countries, but also to be able to act against parents who allow girls to be taken away. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister: how can you learn about your rights in asylum accommodation? Secondly, is she in favour of such a forced maritime unit?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-540	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that the issue of honour-related violence is very important. That is why we also have an emphasis on this in the strategy against violence against women that we are putting forward. However, this is not the only problem we have in Sweden; we have levels of violence that we have not encountered in the last ten years. I think it is important to remind you that violence against women occurs in Sweden. Honor-related violence is a major issue. I often meet women's organisations and people from the Flicka platform, and I have also made an effort to meet them for the development of this strategy. They tell me about asylum homes, which Mrs Pethrus also mentioned, and about residential areas where honour-related violence can occur indoors, which we have perhaps talked about most before. However, there are also men there who think that they can tell women whether they should go into town late in the evening or whether they can sit in a café or not. We need to take more action, as I explained earlier, and I will call actors throughout the country to talk to them about how to move forward. Part of the creation of a gender equality authority is to strengthen and build on work in this area. I do not rule out the need to do more, but at the same time it is an important step to bring the issues together in the new authority and strengthen the work there. Asylum homes are the responsibility of the Migration Agency, and the work will educate those who run and lead these accommodations and will also ensure that everyone is treated equally. Swedish values must be followed. We have an initiative on information for newcomers dealing with gender equality and sexual and reproductive health. I believe that this needs to be reinforced, and that is why we are in the process of doing just that. I will also map out the honour-related violence, as many have pointed out that this is something we need to know more about.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-546	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like the social orientation programmes to be compulsory in asylum homes. Today, there is a great deal of voluntary activity in various areas of social orientation. You don't have to participate. I think we could use an obligatory for those who come here. That is why we are talking about an asylum programme, which would be something that needs to be reviewed. This should happen from day one. A year can be too long. After such a long time, men as women may have begun to accept that they will apparently be treated differently from Swedish women in the rest of society. This can't happen. I would really like the Government to focus specifically on the asylum period in order to curb these tendencies early. As far as the new gender equality agency is concerned, we are concerned that what others have also mentioned is being abandoned, such as the Östergötland County Administrative Board and the work done there. It is very professional and has become like a competence center. We're afraid you'll lose the mainstream idea. With a single authority there is a risk that you think that it is the one and no one else who will solve everything, and other authorities start to relax which would be serious. We would also lose many of the agencies and activities that exist today and in various ways carry out concrete work on gender equality issues. All of this is now brought into the new authority, and the risk is that the entire work will die in an agency structure that may still not be close to the business as has been the case in Uppsala, Östergötland and the university-related operations in Gothenburg.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-550	Mr President, I would like to A county administrative board is an authority. So we already have authorities who have this responsibility. We talk to the County Administrative Board in Östergötland at least every week because it is the government and state competence team when it comes to honour-related violence. The reason why their work is to be used in the new authority to reinforce it is that we have evidence that we need to do a reinforcement. Today it is too divided. I cannot interpret Désirée Pethrus in any other way than that she thinks it is good with authorities, but only those that already exist. We will not do anything new, even if we have evidence that we need something new. This doesn't make any sense to me. However, I understand and share her concern for the competence and commitment as well as the experience that exists in different places in Sweden. We have placed expert knowledge on gender issues as part of the government's work in various places in the absence of a collecting authority. Our ambition is to follow up and ensure that quality is strengthened, not diminished. The issue of asylum time is an area of responsibility which I naturally share with the Minister for Migration. I know he's having conversations with the Migration Board on these issues, and I've done it myself. As I said, we will step up our efforts in the field of information for new arrivals. I share the view that this is important. I have spoken a lot about Swedish values, and I think and believe that gender equality issues are part of what we can call Swedish values. Fortunately, however, my experience of gender equality work in the world shows that these are values that many freedom fighters, women and some men, share throughout the world. Then let's not let down the people who come here.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-555	Mr President, I would like to We have now been debating the matter for quite a few hours, and I would have liked to have taken a line on the Government, but that was not possible because I was after her on the list of speakers. But I'm sure we can talk another time. The report on equal opportunities and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants deals with important areas. They have become increasingly topical, and there is much to do here. During today's debate, we have so far had a good idea of what the various parties stand for. We have talked about the concrete policies and proposals of the Moderates and the Alliance. So have the Social Democrats and the Left Party. It was very much about what the Alliance did as well as some about what we want to do. Otherwise, there have been quite few concrete proposals in the debate on how to improve integration and how to increase jobs. It is good that we are debating, and I hope that we can continue to have a good and broad debate in which we weave in many of the issues that are important for better integration. In terms of integration and good establishment in our country, I am absolutely convinced that education and work are extremely important. And an important part of work is of course entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. It is also a logical consequence that integration is linked to and influenced by migration. My party colleague Elisabeth Svantesson earlier presented many of the proposals that we Moderates have in this area about what we want to do to improve integration. We have made it clear that we are reviewing our policies and developing them. We look back at what we've done, what we did well, what we could have done better, and what should we have done that we didn't. Of course, we have also done an international analysis, because in the outside world and in Sweden today it does not look like it did in 2005 or 2010. Much has happened, not least in the last one and a half years, with regard to migratory flows. I did not intend to touch on all the areas in my speech but will try to focus most on jobs and entrepreneurship as an important part of integration. They are also important elements for gender equality. One of the measures – in addition to important reforms such as new start-up jobs, entry jobs and other elements made under the alliance government – was the successful RUT reform, which was also addressed by the Minister for Labour in his speech. It is an effort that has created many new jobs and businesses. In addition, many who have never had a job before have received it. Even those who have been far removed from the labour market for a long time have entered the job market. There were many young people, many newly arrived people and many women. Not infrequently it was a combination: young women who were new in Sweden and had not had a job in our country before. We have also seen that many new companies have been created that are led and run by successful women, which of course is great and exciting. At the same time, we see that the government thinks this is good and successful and therefore cuts it down. Actually, that's what you do. It is being reduced, and we also see for the first time that the increase in the use of the RUT deduction is levelling out. It's a negative trend. Just ask those in the business. We Moderates instead want to triple the RUT deduction, because we see that it works. It creates jobs, integration and new businesses. We think that's a good thing. We have many concrete proposals for how to increase jobs and how to improve integration. First job contracts have been mentioned, as well as simplified wage support. We want to make it more profitable to work. We want to introduce a premium ceiling. We want an education obligation. We want there to be more simple jobs, something that the government is obviously critical of. LO, the Social Democratic Trade Union, says flatly no. Let's get back to the RUT deduction. We have a minister who is not left in this room but who just stood here and talked a lot about that we have a feminist government. It may be that the government is feminist, but their policy is not particularly feminist. In many situations, the cape is aimed precisely at sectors and areas where many women are, at women-dominated occupations. This applies to welfare companies in general and then to the RUT reform. We know that there are many women, both as employees and as entrepreneurs. As I said, the government talks a lot and gladly about the policy of the Moderates and the Alliance, but few proposals are being delivered. We have all-time-high – or all-time-low, perhaps you should say – in committee meetings, and that is because we have very little to consider. Job creation and job creators, i.e. companies, are an important part of strengthening integration. I have, of course, read through the whole report, but I had a bit of fun focusing particularly on entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, jobs and so on. The word is zero in the report, and so is entrepreneurship. Companies are mentioned, but it is a lot about corporate responsibility and not so much about job creation. When you search for the word, you will find new start jobs, entry jobs and the job and development guarantee – alliance reforms that were good and still exist. Trainee jobs are mentioned once and can be adapted to include establishment. But there is very little focus on work and entrepreneurship. However, the RUT deduction is not mentioned once in a report dealing with both gender equality and integration. I think that's beneath any criticism. Without the focus on more jobs being created, we will not be able to solve integration.
i-L7YR5QKm2tCPrZsaJE3zyL	Mr President, I would like to I support our reservation No 1. I would like to say something about our view of targeted efforts against honour violence and women's oppression. Lack of resources means that many women's shelters are sometimes forced to deny the place of women who are victims of violence. This situation is not sustainable. It is unworthy of a country like Sweden. Of course, we welcome the commitment to increased support for the non-profit women's and women's shelters for which the government has budgeted. But unlike the government and the Left Party, we want to fold 50 million to specific work on emergency services for people who are subjected to honour-related violence and repression. We also choose to implement the grant for a further SEK 50 million intended for special initiatives for women's peace, so that each municipality can ensure that action plans and action programmes are drawn up specifically for work against honour repression. We also believe that the task of the county boards to promote and support action against honour-related violence should be increased and extended. Mr President, I would like to Unlike the government and the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats mainly see two critical things when it comes to understanding the differences in men's violence against women. First of all, it is no secret that honorary cultures differ on many levels when it comes to handling, skills and identifying the problem. Mr President, I would like to The fact that Sweden, like the rest of the world, has lived with men's violence against women all these years is nothing new. On the other hand, honorary cultures, oppression and genital mutilations are relatively new phenomena in Sweden, which are entirely the result of an irresponsible immigration policy where there are no demands for integration and assimilation to Swedish society. There the present government, supported by the Left Party, bears some of the responsibility for pursuing the same irresponsible policy in this area as the previous bourgeois government did. You close your eyes to the troubles. Today we are seeing growing problems in the area of honour violence in society. At the same time, we have a government that claims to be the world's first feminist government and appoints itself as the soldiers of equality. The biggest threat is that boys in school paint the color blue and girls with the color pink – instead of focusing on the real problems. Mr President, I would like to When the political voices of the suburbs began to rise and the escalating problem was warned against, critics were silenced. They played the racist card and tried to sweep the problems under the carpet so as not to give critics to the negative sides of multiculturalism right. Today we can see the results. We have gone from 3 exclusion areas 16 years ago to just over 200 today. A number of them have parallel social structures with valuation conflicts with Sweden and Swedish society. In my opinion, this is a frightening development ahead of us. Mr President, I would like to There is still growing oppression, as well as differences in valuation. The increasing intolerance and suffering continues for all these young girls and boys. This is a culture that we Swedish democrats will not allow to continue to grow. We will never allow it to be part of our society.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-580	Mr President, I would like to In all areas of expenditure, gender equality analysis must be carried out, whether it concerns jobs, welfare, road construction, housing or anything else. If we are to talk about gender equality, then it will not be fair just to look at the budgetary efforts in Category 13, which we are going to debate today. Politics makes a difference, and in the area of gender equality it becomes very clear. The previous government gave priority to tax cuts for already wealthy, mostly men. We invest in school, care and care that is good for everyone. The previous government gave priority to increased opportunities for fixed-term employment. We invest in full time and in removing shared tours. The previous government invested in custody grants. We Social Democrats are investing more resources in preschool, even for evenings and weekends. The previous government gave priority to parental bonus. We share parental insurance more equally. The last government insured and hunted the sick. We are investing in more employees in care for the elderly. The former government deteriorated the unemployment fund. We invest in jobs, education and a new knowledge boost. The previous government fought for lower wages. We are fighting for demands for collective agreements in public procurement. Mr President, I would like to The list can be made much longer, but the summary is that the previous government bet on already rich – usually men. We Social Democrats are investing in those who need politics the most. It is often about children, young people, women and low-paid men. Now we are delivering Social Democrats, and not just with investigations as the previous government did. Actually, it's enough with the 63 centimetre high that's already in the department. Sufficient knowledge exists; it is changes that must be made. Many welcome a gender equality agency to drive forward the work that our government has announced will be done and that many have mentioned. Many people are very positive about an authority and want it to be placed in their own municipality. Just now, the government left the letter Power, goal and authority – feminist policy for an equal future. It contains facts, what we want and what should be done. At the beginning of next year we will have the opportunity to debate it, and I welcome it and look forward to it. Mr President, I would like to It becomes clear that there are strong feelings and perhaps fears when talking about equality and an authority. Perhaps it is someone who is afraid of losing his own power or his own position of power. This becomes particularly clear when the Moderates, through Ulf Kristersson, are ralliing in this Chamber about the gender equality authority and, among other things, call it symbolic politics. This clearly shows how one from the Moderates and several other bourgeois parties views gender equality work and how emotions are affected. For us Social Democrats, it is about women and men, girls and boys having the same opportunity for power and influence to influence society and their own lives. It's about getting the opportunity to work and make a living. We Social Democrats do not think it is okay that women lose 3.6 million in wages during their working lives. We don't think it's okay for women to have more part-time work and worse working conditions than men. We do not think it is okay that after a long working life, women are not entitled to a pension that is viable. We do not think it is okay that around 150 000, usually women, are forced to go down to work or leave work because you do not trust the care that exists for your loved ones. We Social Democrats do not think it is okay that women have a worse working environment so that they get sick from work. We don't think it's okay for men to expose women to violence and threats. We don't think it's okay for women to take more responsibility for unpaid domestic work. That is why we Social Democrats want to change and move from words to action. I understand that it annoys most bourgeois parties, although it may be welcomed by the Liberals who do not seem to be in the Chamber at the moment. It is with political decisions that we make a difference in the area of gender equality. These include full-time, annual pay surveys on more companies, limitation of fixed-term employment, investments in elderly care and welfare, initiatives in the field of health and safety at work, a gender equality authority, preventive work to prevent men's violence against women, annual investments in women's shelters, changes in parental insurance, and more. These are decisions that make a difference and that drive the work for gender equality in the right direction and create confidence in the future and opportunities for all of us. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-600	Mr President, I would like to This was a lot about the Alliance in general and the Moderates in particular, and it was a little bit of a historical revisionist in terms of the results. The tax cuts are a dark spectre for the Social Democracy, and although this is not the subject of this debate, the major tax cuts made by the Alliance were the job tax deductions – five steps, five times. It was a tax reduction that gave an additional monthly salary each year to those with the lowest incomes. These job tax deductions have been retained by the current government, since it is recognised that they were good, that they created jobs and that they led to improved life situations for the Swedish people. It is also important to illustrate. There is much talk of the government being a feminist government. As I said, the government may consider itself feminist, but politics is not very equal in all areas. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Ahlberg directly: when it comes to the RUT deduction, as Ylva Johansson said earlier in the speaker's chair, what is a success, more than cooperation with the Left Party, which means that the Social Democrats are still pushing this down and reducing the space? We Moderates say it works so well that we want to expand it. The government says the opposite: it works so well that we want to halve it. What's the reason?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-605	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are here saying that we are not doing enough in the area of gender equality, and I would like to refer to a press release from the Swedish Women's Lobby. I think Christian Holm Barenfeld knows what it is. They state in a press release on the 2017 budget that it has more gender analysis than before and that they welcome the government's efforts in terms of men's violence against women, the gender equality authority and funds for women-dominated sectors such as school, health care and care. Sweden's women's lobby is a very large non-political umbrella organisation that works to ensure that women and men have the same opportunities. I therefore think that Christian Holm Barenfeld will have to think a little about whether it is not true very well as we say, i.e. that the current government is the first feminist government that the Swedish people have voted for. Ylva Johansson had a post about the RUT deduction. This deduction means that you have 25 000 kroner each to hire cleaning help for. If you are two in a household, it is about 50,000 kroner. The priority we have made is that it should suffice. I don't know how many people are taking full advantage of this, because I haven't looked up that number, but I don't think there's that many. We would rather spend that money on health care, school and care. It also needs cleaning in our hospitals, in child care and in the care of the elderly. It's a priority we're making.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-610	Mr President, I would like to We see that the government's policy leads to the number of RUT companies and the number of users of the RUT deductions plane out and appear to decrease because of what the government does. It is also the case that RUT and ROT are co-located, which means that not least this time of year you worry about getting across the border so that it becomes much more expensive. This has an effect. We had a seminar with the service companies here in Parliament just a few weeks ago, where Social Democratic members were also present. There it was concretely shown on the effects, and they were not good. With regard to feminism and whether the government is feminist, there may be some organisation that thinks that some proposals are good. I think it is good if women get jobs to a greater extent, of course on the same terms as men, and that wages go up. We know that there are areas that are more dominated by women. These are areas where wages are lower, sickness rates are higher and the employer is largely public. There are some private parts. Instead, they are the ones the government is going after. There's the Reepalu investigation and so on. If it now works so well with the RUT deduction – if an industry has gone from being basically black to turning white, to growing with new companies, new employees, many newcomers who get jobs quickly, a step into the labour market – what makes you, when you see the result, still think that the deduction is not reasonable, except that you cooperate with the Left Party?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-615	Mr President, I would like to It becomes clear where the Moderates stand in the gender equality work. The RUT deduction is the great equality measure for the Moderates. It is clear in this change of line. The RUT deduction exists. We Social Democrats have reduced it somewhat. For us, the people who often use the RUT deduction are highly paid. I don't know many municipal or hotel and restaurant employees who use that service and receive the RUT deduction. But I know many high - paying people who do, and they may be able to afford to pay out of their own pocket. We think it is extremely important to invest in women getting jobs with decent conditions, good forms of employment and in island areas on which they can live. It's our big deal. This requires childcare and care for the elderly. Public procurement must be subject to requirements. But this is what the Moderate Party of Christian Holm Barenfeld voted against in this House. On the one hand, it says that people working in the public sector should be protected under fair conditions, and on the other hand, collective agreements should not be required for public procurement. Equality for us Social Democrats is about women, men, girls and boys having the same opportunities to support themselves, influence their own lives and have power over society and their own lives. This is not just about RUT deductions or tax reductions. It's about a lot more for us.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-620	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to point out that Fredrik Malm from the Liberals and Annika Qarlsson from the Center Party are welcome to hurry back to the Chamber to explain a thing or two about the shortcomings of their gender equality policy. I will return to those questions. Mr President, I would like to I am proud to represent the Green Party when the party is part of a government for the first time – the world's first feminist government. It is amazing, not least in these times when we see anti-woman rhetoric moving into the world's most powerful fine room! We deliver results. The government recently presented a new gender equality policy with more targets in more areas, including a ten-year action plan to combat men's violence against women. These include honour-related violence and oppression, prostitution and human trafficking. The focus is for the first time on preventing violence, ensuring that rape does not happen, that the battle is not dealt – as our eminent Minister for Gender Equality said when she presented the initiative. It is important that we invest in preventing violence. Ten years of political agreement on combating men's violence against women has not been enough. Concrete measures are also needed to achieve gender equality objectives. This brings me to something that the Moderate Elisabeth Svantesson said in a new line earlier. She said that we agree on the substance but disagree on the means to achieve gender equality policy objectives. But, Mr President, what I see is that there is no means to achieve the objectives of equality policy in some of the bourgeois parties. For example, the Moderates today talked about honour-related violence and oppression – that is very important issues – and a part about entrepreneurship. M a man said nothing about equal pay, where the government now announces an action plan, and nothing about how we get an even take-out of the unpaid home and care work, where the bourgeois parties with the Moderates at the head stuck to the custody allowance, which increases inequality in this area. Mr President, I would like to This clarifies the difference in Swedish gender equality policy. Is it willing to come up with concrete, effective solutions to meet the gender challenge broadly or not? The Center Party is talking about gender equality, but you're not going to pay for it. Annika Qarlsson said earlier that they intend to cut 90 million from the national strategy against men's violence against women and replace it with beautiful words. That is what is in Category 4 justice, which was clubbed in the Chamber a week ago, and I participated in the debate on the area. The Center Party has several points where it wants to investigate legislative proposals that we from the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Government have announced, but not a crown to actually work against violence in the name of honour. That's the reality when the Center Party speaks. The same applies to the evaluation of some of the most important tools in the toolbox for achieving gender equality in the state, namely the evaluation of gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting. That's where you cut money away, too. This will be achieved within the existing framework. In other words, the issue is important, but equality must not cost. The Liberals have today talked a lot about what they do not want. This applies to several parties, but I want to know what the Liberals want to do to achieve equal representation, equal power and equal influence in society. The government has concluded that voluntary measures are not enough. That is why there is a proposal on quotas on stock exchange boards, not because it is the most important equality measure, but because gender equality is important also in the business world. Mr President, I would like to We have talked a lot about violence in the name of honour. I would like to emphasise that I share the image that has emerged from several debaters that this is an incredibly important issue. I meet representatives in the municipalities. I meet teachers who do not receive support from their principals when they demand that all children have the right to participate in sex and cohabitation education in Swedish schools. I see that we are still failing to protect girls from some of the extreme abuse that a person may be subjected to. The competence team against honour-related violence in Östergötland has reported 65 cases where various municipal or other authorities have known of the risk of marriage, and the girls are still out of the country today – against their will. These major challenges take the government very seriously in the Action Plan – the national strategy against men's violence against women – and in announced investigations. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the proposal contained in the report in the section on equal opportunities. But I would also like to ask one more question. There has not been much talk of discrimination today, even though we have been debating for many hours. The Moderates cut down by SEK 19 million. The Swedish Democrats want to close down the Ombudsman for Discrimination. The Center cut down by 28 million, and the Liberals and the KD do not think there is room for wage increases for those who work against discrimination. Who is it that we should no longer protect against discrimination? That is the question for the opposition parties.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-633	Mr President, I would like to I will not comment on all the elements that Annika Hirvonen Falk raised in her speech, but when it comes to gender equality, there are a wide range of proposals from the alliance parties – of course I can mainly talk to the Moderates. In addition, as I believe Annika Hirvonen Falk is aware, the Moderates are very active when it comes to violence in close relationships, honor-related violence and so on. This debate is both about gender equality and integration, and I would like to welcome the Green Party to the debate, because there has not been a representative of the party before this day. With regard to integration, the Alliance Government, in cooperation with the Green Party, introduced very good legislation on labour immigration. We need more people who work in Sweden, and we have major challenges with integration. There is no doubt about that. The road from coming to Sweden to having a job and living a living is far too long. At the same time, there are people who are here working and who are being expelled. Danyar Mohammed has lived in Jokkmokk for seven years and works at a pizzeria. He is to be expelled because an employer missed the increase in a collective agreement, and that cannot be corrected. Tayyab Shabab is a programmer and is to be expelled because a previous employer had paid too little in pension insurance. Syed Latif applied for a job and got it through Linked In and not through Arbetsförmedlingen, which made the Migration Agency decide he was going back to Bangladesh. That's what the government thought was good. The Alliance has a committee initiative in this area because we think it is reasonable to stay. LO and the Social Democrats do not think that is a good thing. How can you defend as an environmental party that we send out people who are here and have a job?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-638	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to remind you that in my speech I acknowledged that the Moderates have spoken a great deal about the work against violence in the name of honour. What I wonder is: What do the Moderates want to do to reduce the unequal distribution of unpaid domestic and care work? The only thing we have heard so far in the years since the change of power is that the Moderates want to stick to the custody allowance and do not want to introduce additional reserved months in parental insurance. What do the Moderates want to do to ensure equal pay? What we have seen is that the Moderates do not want annual salary surveys. We have not seen any action by the Moderates to address any of the most important issues of economic inequality in Sweden. On the issue of labour immigration, Christian Holm Barenfeld also knows that the Green Party and the Moderates worked together on this. The Green Party stands by the agreements we made. On the other hand, the Moderates of the last few days have clearly demonstrated that they no longer do. The question is what the Moderates are actually pushing for migration policy. I believe in a Sweden that is open both to talent and to people seeking protection. The Moderates seem to be backing off that line.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-641	Mr President, I would like to It has probably not gone by the way that we have a situation in terms of migration and flows of refugees that is extremely sad and regrettable in many ways. Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility for many years, not least in recent years, but we cannot do this ourselves. That is why we need to cooperate with others. We are members of the European Union and so on. When it comes to labour migration, we have few integration problems with those who come here and work. We have even less integration problems with those who are actually here working and have had a job for a long time. As I said, there is a committee initiative from the Alliance on this. It is basically only for the Green Party to say that they are happy to join and support this initiative, and so they can be involved in influencing it. You are actually in the government and have the opportunity to influence the outcome. At this point, however, it seems that it is LO who, through the Social Democrats, has had its voice heard. What are Annika Hirvonen Falk's views on it? If you now honor the agreement and think that this labour migration is a good part, I wonder if Annika Hirvonen Falk thinks it is reasonable that a person is expelled only because an employer, who later corrected the mistake, happened to miss a change in the collective agreement or paid out too little percentage in pension insurance, or because the person has been proactive and actually got a job without visiting the Employment Service and getting a job coach there but instead has used modern tools such as Linkedin In.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-644	Mr President, I would like to I note at the outset that the Moderates continue to maintain the line that economic equality is not so interesting to talk about and do not want to answer questions about what they want to do in order to have an equal labour market, an equal take-up of parental insurance and better gender equality in other care work at home. With regard to the question that Christian Holm Barenfeld, on the other hand, wants to discuss, whether it is reasonable for small mistakes to have the consequence that an entire family is expelled, it is, of course, something that I, too, find very unfortunate. The Green Party is in government, and we are putting forward proposals jointly through the government in the first place. I would also like to comment on something that Christian Barenfeld said, namely that we will continue to have many who come here as labour immigrants because they do not have different integration problems. What I hear in this – it may be a misinterpretation, and I hope almost that – is a rhetoric that says that we are happy if people come here who are highly educated and skilled but that we would rather not have people coming here for asylum reasons. I really want to warn against that rhetoric and resist it. Asylum law is incredibly important and must be protected regardless of the skills of people seeking protection, as the Minister for Labour was clear about. Labour migration is something that the Green Party and the Moderates have agreed on is good for Sweden. This should not be confused into some sort of pick-russen-out-cake policy.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-648	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes when gender equality is discussed you can easily think that it is a Swedish invention and that we are the best in the world, but that is not the case. And we've got a long way to go. Since 1974 men have been able to take parental leave. Yet men choose to only take out less than a quarter of their parenting days. When the children are sick, the father is home in four out of ten. For 15 years, men's share has only increased by four percentage points. In terms of the labour market as a whole, women earn 86% of men's wages. The figure has only increased by a few percentage points since the mid-1990s. In other words, women work free approximately from the beginning of November and the year out. In addition, we see large differences in pay in the private and public sectors. Those working in the private sector earn thousands less than those working in the public sector. Women take medication because of mental illness to a greater extent than men. The most common cause of death among young men is suicide. A major reason for this is the prevailing masculinity standard that does not allow men to feel bad or to talk about their feelings. This is the ultimate consequence of inequality. This represents 98% of violence against women. In private companies, men sit on more than four out of five chairs. Almost half of them have no female members. In municipal companies, 71 per cent are men and 29 per cent are women. During the years of the bourgeois government, Sweden slipped from first to fourth place in the World Economic Forum's ranking of the world's most equal countries. The income gap between men and women also increased during the bourgeois term. What affected most were job tax deductions, which mainly benefited high-paid men. The problem is not fat men, hairy men, tall men or immigrant men. The problem is the patriarchy. Mr President, I would like to There is something deeply tragic about 2016 debating things that should be self-evident, such as women and men still not receiving equal pay for equal work. Women work for free for an hour and three minutes each day. At the rate that the pay gap between men and women has narrowed, it will take 53 years before we achieve equal pay. This means that those girls who are entering the labour market today will not experience equal pay throughout their working lives. Where will we be in 53 years? At best, I'm 95 years old. It is clear that this is not something the market solves itself, but an active and conscious policy is needed. The budget bill includes reform from the Left Party of about SEK 12 billion per year in the next few years. Our focus has been on welfare and economic equality reforms – feminist reforms. Women are over-represented among low-income earners and men among high-income earners. When we improve conditions for low-income earners, this also means that Sweden is becoming more equal. Our reforms raise the economic situation of women, which gives us more power over our own lives. With the budget that we have presented together with the government, we have laid some of the foundations for a more equal society. Single parents, low income earners and anyone who ever uses welfare are winners. Now we are investing in the groups left behind during the period of the bourgeois government. The reforms that the Left Party has achieved in the negotiations make a big difference to the people involved. But the government of Reinfeldt rigged taxes to benefit the rich, so there would have to be a greater grip on inequality. Unfortunately, we have not brought the government with us to take that approach in this turn. Some of the reforms that the Left Party has achieved in the budget bill and which are important in this area are increased maintenance support, increased child allowances for the third child, increased guarantees in health insurance, increased entitlement to part-time stamps and reduced tax rates for the poorest pensioners. Mr President, I would like to In order to focus on gender equality and deliver concrete results, we have long wanted to establish a gender equality authority responsible for steering Sweden towards gender equality again. The closure of JämO as an independent authority was a major failure for gender equality. All preventive work has been set aside. In 2005, Gertrud Åström proposed a gender equality agency in his study. This was not the case, for then, as is well known, the government of Reinfeldt took office. But now it is finally to be established. It is important to actually prove what the reality is. There is a great need for documentation, relevant studies and research. But it is also about the governance of society's gender equality efforts. An equality authority must be present in all sectors of society and affect both central government, municipal bodies and county councils. Equality and feminism, or lack thereof, affect all areas, such as health, welfare, labour market, pensions, justice and climate. For women and men to truly have the same power and opportunity to influence society and their own lives, the patriarchy must be destroyed.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-667	Mr President, I would like to My fellow party members have talked about equality, establishment and integration. I was going to stick to the subject of discrimination and racism. I call for the proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected. Sweden should be a tolerant and human society characterised by diversity with respect for the individual's human rights and freedoms, and everyone's equal value should be respected. Yet today we can see how people face prejudice on a daily basis and thus risk being discriminated against. These may include, for example, employers' prejudices about the origin, disability, age or sexual orientation of people who are best suited to a job, but who are not employed. It may be that a student is discriminated against on grounds of ethnic origin or gender. Just before midsummer, we in Parliament decided on changes to the Discrimination Act, which means that the work on active measures in the field of employment and education should cover the same seven grounds for discrimination as the prohibitions and that an explanation of the term active measures is included in the Act: ..................................................... This change will enter into force on 1 January next year and will be one of several components to combat discrimination. DO, the Discrimination Ombudsman, must exercise supervision to ensure compliance with the law. Mr President, I would like to The number of complaints to the Discrimination Ombudsman has increased continuously in recent years, and the grounds for discrimination that have increased most since 2013 are disabilities. A report that is currently the subject of legal proceedings concerns a deaf worker who applied for a position at Södertörn University. Although the person was considered to be the most qualified for the position, the recruitment process was interrupted because the university considered that the costs of the adaptation measures were too high to be considered reasonable. It is a very bad signal to all of Sweden's deaf and sign-speaking people. We want all people regardless of disability to be able to be on the labour market and work on the basis of their own ability. According to information, this is the only case this year in which DO has brought an action in respect of reasonable accessibility measures, despite the fact that several notifications have been made in this area. For me, it is self-evident that a person who has a disability and who experiences discrimination in working life should also be able to have his or her case examined by the responsible authority. I assume that DO will do that job in a slightly more active way. I also welcome the government's announcement that it is continuing to work to strengthen protection against discrimination, including in relation to lack of accessibility. Mr President, I would like to When I read the opposition's draft budget in this area, I wonder how it has been thought. Have you thought about it? SD, with Magnus Persson and Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, wants to close the Discrimination Ombudsman. It is unclear why, more than the view that the agency carries out public opinion work in order to combat discrimination. Is it bad to combat discrimination? Or is it that SD does not think there is any discrimination? If the question is answered by yes, should one not be interested in the reduction of discrimination? If the answer is no, that there is discrimination but that you do not want to do anything about it, which planet do you live on? Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I note that both the Moderates and the Center Party choose to save on another part. These are measures against discrimination, racism, xenophobia, homophobia and similar forms of intolerance. That is something I can only regret. If it is something that has proved to be important in society, especially during this year, it is to defend the equal rights and equal value of all people. When Nazis and other xenophobic forces spread hatred and threats against Roma, Jews, Muslims, refugees, municipal politicians, journalists, homosexuals, feminists and anti-racists – in short, anyone who does not share their distorted image of human dignity – all good counter-forces are needed to strengthen our society. They are needed for tolerance and humanism, against discrimination and racism and for the sake of democracy. Finally, I would like to ask the Moderates and the Center Party a question. Unfortunately, they have now left the Chamber; I do not know if they thought the debate was over. What are the signals that the Moderates and the Center Party want to send with their savings in this area? Is it about discrimination and racism not having to be combated? In any case, I think this is an important area, and I am pleased that the government has invested an extra amount of money in it.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-680	Mr President, I would like to As the House continues to debate gender equality, the establishment of newcomers, discrimination and segregation, we see that it is empty from the Alliance. They have left the Chamber, which I think is a bit bad. As I said, my comrades have focused on establishment, equality and discrimination. I was also going to say something about segregation. Mr President, I would like to Class gaps have increased markedly in our country, as the OECD and the IMF, among others, warn against. Inequality and widening gaps are deeply harmful to both individuals and society. Our most important mission is to break the growing inequality in Sweden. Inequality is alive and dead. It distinguishes almost 20 years in life expectancy between Danderyd and Vårby in Stockholm. This development must be broken. That is why a serious analysis, discussion and response to the growing inequalities and socio-economic gaps in our society is needed. Take, for example, my own residential area, Fittja. It is an intercultural area, in which we speak over 100 languages and come from all over the world. I landed there at the age of ten, and I still live there. Fittja is an area built up in the 1960s and 1970s when the housing shortage as a result of urbanisation was very high. Already early on, Fittja and many other suburbs with similar development were class-segregated. They came to Fittja with relatively low incomes and the newly arrived immigrants. The large immigrant groups were labour immigrants from Turkey, Greece and former Yugoslavia. The fact that many immigrants lived there was not a charged question at the time. Mr President, I would like to When I was in elementary school in the late 80s, I had many classmates with ethnically Swedish background. In the early 90s, many ethnic Swedes left Fittja and the million-dollar program areas when a rescheduling of housing policy made it easier for normal income earners to buy a terraced house or a villa. Economic segregation gradually developed into an economic and ethnic segregation. Today, many of our suburbs face major challenges. Although many people in our country are doing well, not everyone is doing well. Unemployment is still high. School results are falling. Child poverty is increasing and insecurity is growing. Mr President, I would like to That is why we need a concrete, long-term plan for the future in these areas. What is needed is a national strategy for the suburbs. Among other things, it is about all young people in the suburbs having a job to go to, a school that provides a good education and an opportunity to move from home to their own home. That is why I welcome the government's reform to reduce segregation. It's a step in the right direction. It is about coordinating efforts to combat segregation and to keep policies together by tackling social inequalities, unequal health and poverty. It is an important task to take the problem seriously. But, of course, more is needed. In 2006, the bourgeois parties went to elections to break the so-called exclusion. But with the facts in hand, we see that the exclusion and segregation have been cemented. Now the bourgeois parties are trying to dissipate responsibility. For eight years they had the chance to reverse the trend. During these eight years taxes were reduced by SEK 140 billion. Instead, it is money that could have gone to more teachers in the suburbs, more places in Komvux, more educational opportunities for young people, resources for those most in need, renovation of million programme areas, building more housing, money for municipalities that could have hired more staff in welfare, hiring more police and so on. It is money that could have gone to reduce the gaps in our society. But then it was more important to reduce the tax than to invest in the areas most in need. It turned a blind eye to the increase in segregation, school gaps, unemployed young people, leisure centres that did not have resources, poor housing, overcrowding, discrimination in the labour and housing markets, increased racism and growing child poverty. It simply did not see the socio-economic challenges and segregation, nor is it today. Finally, Mr President, what is needed is a new route, concrete, long-term plans for the suburbs and a whole new inclusive policy with a focus on equality. We need no hope and faith in the future for all the young people who grow up in poverty. This applies to those outside the labour market who are excluded from housing and education because of their narrow-mindedness. We must combat discrimination and racism seriously in society and in the labour market. The solution is therefore not reduced taxes or low wages. I support the committee's proposal.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-691	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that we are not taking part in the decision on appropriations because our proposal for the financial framework has fallen. I refer instead to our particular opinion. Mr President, I would like to I intend to devote my speech to talking about climate policy because the climate issue is hugely important. The vast majority also agree that we need to reduce climate emissions in the near future. It is simply urgent. The moderates' view of both climate policy and environmental policy is that it should first and foremost take as its starting point the concept of sustainability and its balance between the three elements: the environment, the economy and social issues. In addition, it should rest on four basic foundations. The first is international agreements. Many environmental problems, and in particular the climate challenge, are cross-border. Therefore, broad international solutions are needed for this to work. The second is technology development. We believe that instead of restricting people's ability to travel, for example, new technologies can reduce emissions from travel. The third is about market economy tools. Politics cannot and should not try to solve everything, but when policies act, it is important that it be done with tools related to the functioning of the market in general. The fourth is about cost-effectiveness. A great deal can be solved in itself without the government having to spend a lot of taxpayers' money. But once money is spent, it is important that it is done in a way that achieves the greatest possible environmental benefit per crown. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are a party that tends to emphasize the importance of order and order. Often it is about the economy and the need for order in public finances. But if there is one area in which order is perhaps even more important, it is climate policy. Since it is urgent to reduce emissions, it is incredibly important that we know that the efforts we are making really lead to the greatest possible climate benefit. Calculations must be made of the emission reductions resulting from the various measures. There are at least two major problems with the government's climate policy. The first problem is that the government seems to lack comprehensive estimates of the estimated total emission reductions of the policy pursued. In fact, it is somewhat astounding, because it means that the government is fumbling blindly. If you do not have any calculations of what the policy is expected to achieve, how should you know if you are doing enough or if you are doing the right things? The second problem is that for those measures where there are actual calculations – for example, climate change – the climate benefit per crown invested is distressingly low. The average cost per tonne of emission reduction is almost SEK 3,200, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. For example, CDM, where the price is approximately SEK 60 per tonne, should be used as a mechanism for clean development. The climate challenge is global, which means that every tonne of emissions is equally harmful regardless of where it takes place. This also means that every tonne we can reduce emissions by is equally important regardless of where it happens. For the climate, the reduction of emissions is equally beneficial regardless of whether it is done in Sweden, in China or in Africa. The government often beats its chest and tells how much money it spends on climate policy. But it's actually completely uninteresting. The important thing is the result achieved. The Moderates say no to the Government's climate action, but for 2017 we invest SEK 100 million more than the Government in international efforts such as CDM. Thus, these measures provide 50 times greater climate benefits per crown than the government's climate action. This means that even if we spend less of taxpayers' money than the government does, we achieve greater reductions in climate emissions. We focus on results while the government focuses on expensive and inefficient symbol politics with very limited climate benefits. With regard to the announced flight tax, it is even worse. Emission reductions are at a maximum of 0.2 million tonnes per year, including the high-height effects. The tax is estimated to cost SEK 1.8 billion. This means that the price tag, which primarily has to be paid by rural travellers, will be SEK 9 000 per tonne of emission reduction – compared to international climate action such as CDM, where a tonne's emission reduction costs SEK 60. This means that international efforts are 150 times more cost-effective. They provide 150 times greater climate benefits than air taxes provide. Aviation tax is expensive and ineffective symbolism policy. Do the Moderates not think that we should do anything at all in Sweden? Yes, it is. The Swedish challenge lies primarily in the transport sector. There we need, among other things, a new vehicle taxation that is better guided by climate performance. Despite much talk, the government has not yet delivered such a proposal. Pending the arrival of such a proposal, the government has extended the Alliance's super-environmental car premium. We think this is a good thing; we also fully match it in our draft budget. The government borrows money for expensive and inefficient measures in the climate economy, as I mentioned earlier. Like all other opposition parties, we say no to that. Instead, we spend separate money on the charging infrastructure for electric cars. For vehicle fuel, we want to see a system with a reduction obligation where emissions are gradually reduced, a market-based system that rewards fuels with good climate performance and provides long-term rules for those players in the industry that are in the starting pits to produce biofuels – without imposing a significant burden on the state budget. Here too, unfortunately, the government proposals are entirely absent. Speaking of meekness, it is also worth noting that the government's so-called historic investment is about 75 percent after this term of office. Mr President, I would like to Climate policy is not a competition for who spends the most money. It is about doing the right things to achieve as much climate benefit as possible. Unfortunately, the government is pursuing both an inefficient climate policy and irresponsible economic policy, and our children are at risk of paying the bill for both.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-708	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are proposing substantial cuts in expenditure that we are debating here today, on the environmental budget. As usual in moderate politics, tax cuts go ahead of investments that boost Sweden and shift our country in a more sustainable direction. After all, you have tried tax reductions in response to everything in the past. It didn't work then and will not work now either. It's a big slaughter on the entire Green Sweden that's being painted out in the Moderates' draft budget. These are cuts of 2.1 billion in relation to the government's proposal. In several authorities, there would be chaos and widespread redundancies. Lots of good environmental work would be scrapped. Let me take a few examples. You're cutting $55 million on the Environmental Protection Agency's funding. You do not have any extra money for the game conservation agency you have said you want to create, so in reality the reductions are perhaps even greater. You are withdrawing more than one third of the appropriation for the management of valuable land and more than one third of the appropriation for the clean-up of valuable land. 23 million is to be removed from the Chemicals Inspectorate. These are, in my opinion, completely unserious and unexplained measures which would in reality paralyze environmental work for years. My question concerns the Climate Tree, which you want to scrap. What do you say, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, to your moderate colleagues in municipal politics who have signed applications for climate investments? Should they choose not to make those investments, or should they reduce any other investment in municipalities for advice?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-712	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats focus their habit on raising taxes significantly. It is a tax increase of 40 billion on jobs and growth only for 2017, and then you choose to spend some of this on so-called investments. However, it is only a fraction of the tax increases. We are talking about a couple of billions of these 40, that is, one twentieth of the efforts made in the field of the environment. Moreover, as I mentioned in my speech, it is quite irrelevant how much money you spend. The important thing is what results are achieved. It may well be appropriate to also think about the chaos that Matilda Ernkrans describes that it would be with the enormous reduction. Here's the thing: This is in practice a return to the level of 2015 but with an increase of 5 percent. So it is not the case that this appropriation has been over 8 billion for some time, but this is the red-green government's way of conducting expensive and inefficient symbolism policy. It collects massive revenue in the form of tax increases on jobs and growth, and then spends it on efforts that produce very limited results. It's not good politics. It will also harm the environment in the long run, because if we imagine that the concept of sustainability is about the environment as well as the economy and social issues, we can see that if efforts made by the government strike at jobs and growth, we will have more people who become unemployed than we would otherwise have. We will also have less money, and in the end it will give less opportunity to make efforts for the environment. With regard to climate change, I would say that one of the problems with the efforts that have been made when evaluating previous corresponding programmes, such as Klimp, is that – in addition to poor cost-effectiveness – it is about efforts that would often have been made in any case. It is therefore bad so-called additionality. There is money in the lake and effort that should have been made anyway.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-717	Mr President, I would like to It feels a little special to hear a moderate say that money is not important. However, I agree with the Moderates that the important thing is the result. Then, at a time when the Arctic is melting – if you don't really believe in it, you can use NASA's satellite images – look at the amount of carbon dioxide emissions that still occur across our part of the world and think about where the responsibility lies and how we can best help to change Sweden and the world in a more sustainable direction. But let's look at this with results, which is important. 582 applications have been submitted for the Climate Centre. It is extremely popular and will deliver annual emission reductions of 400 000 tonnes of greenhouse gases. That is equivalent to 50,000 petrol cars driving around the world once. These are real results. We're removing greenhouse gas emissions. This particular measure is the view of the Moderates that we should scrap completely. It is based on old reports and old measures, not on the new methods and new tools that we have for measuring emissions, but also on measuring applications that come in and show that this results in real emission reductions. It's extremely popular, we know the results, it's effective – and it provides not only climate benefits but also societal benefits in the form of more public transport, which makes it easier for people to get to and from work, and other important things. And it creates jobs. But this will be removed by the Moderates. In fact, I do not think you answered the question: what do you say to your moderate colleagues around the country who have sought this money and want to use it for such investments? Should investments be sidelined, or should other important investments in municipalities be removed in order to do so?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-722	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if I put it that money isn't important. Money is important, but the important thing is what they are used for, that is, the result. At least it sounded for a brief moment as if we were in agreement on that very thing. But then Ernkrans float into free fantasies again. After all, no one has said that it is not important that the ice in the Arctic melts or that the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere increases. That is precisely the argument that we need to make cost-effective efforts. This is about reducing climate emissions as much as possible here and now. You claim, Matilda Ernkrans, that my data on the efforts comes from old reports, but the number of emission reductions comes from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report of 31 August this year. So I guess that report isn't really old. What is described is that the total cost of climate change, which is 1.9 billion over the whole period, will provide a reduction of 600 000 tonnes. This is equivalent to SEK 3,200 per tonne. Let us say $3,000 per tonne, if it could possibly be something better than we thought. This means 50 times less cost-effectiveness of these measures compared to international efforts. Why is it more important to spend that money here, on a symbolic policy to show that the Social Democrats and the Green Party want to do something? Why is it more important than making efforts where the best and greatest results can be achieved in terms of emission reductions? That's the whole point of our criticism of Climate Change: Cost-effectiveness is very bad. That is also the message I give to the municipal councillor, regardless of the party. If you make the assessment that the efforts are effective in bringing down emissions in the municipalities, you should do them, and then you must also take that cost yourself. But when it comes to state money, we need to take responsibility for how much we can reduce emissions with the money we choose to spend. We have 50 times greater cost-effectiveness in our efforts compared to the climate.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-727	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler said he wanted to talk about the environment and climate, but in this debate it is delivery that counts. After all, we are debating the budget, Category 20. It is the climate and environmental budget of the large, comprehensive state budget. This report compares the draft budget submitted by the Government with the support of the Left Party with what I would call five shades of brown: the Swedish Democrats and the other right-wing parties with the Moderates at the head. We can go in and look at the extremely important appropriations in this area of expenditure. For example, we have protection of a valuable nature: that we should be able to protect more, create nature reserves and so on. That is the budget line that the Moderates want to halve – cut by about SEK 600 million. We have measures for valuable nature, which the Moderates want to reduce by 30 percent or SEK 335 million. We have climate investments in Sweden, which were just debated here. This appropriation completely removes the Moderates; SEK 700 million disappears from our municipalities, regions and companies that want to change locally. We have the important climate adaptation work: that we should be able to change our societies so that they are more sustainable and not hit so hard by climate change. That grant more than halves the Moderates; it is cut down by SEK 67 million. Our expert authority in this area, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, receives a substantial reduction of SEK 55 million with Moderate politics. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, I would like to ask you: how can cuts in this area lead to greater environmental and climate responsibility? And why is it always someone else who should take responsibility for the environment and climate in Moderate politics?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-735	Mr President, I would like to I'll tell Jens Holm how it can be like that. I've told you before. So we achieve greater reductions in emissions with our draft budget than you do. We spend our money on efforts that are 50 times more effective in reducing climate emissions. There's the essential difference. We do not need to collect 40 billion in taxes on jobs and growth, which in the next step will hit both the economy, people and the environment, to finance such expensive and inefficient measures. Then Jens Holm, as before Matilda Ernkrans, tries to draw gears on that it would be such huge downsizings and become such a chaos. I would like to remind you of what I said earlier: this is basically a return to 2015 levels, plus 5%. It is therefore a lower allocation than the government has; that is quite right. We simply do not make the same priority and do not think that we need to spend those sums – especially if you put it in relation to you collecting 40 billion in increased taxes to fund this. We believe that a great many measures can be taken and work well in any case. The most important thing, however, is the issue of climate change. I have to say that it is somewhat astonishing that the government repeatedly beats its chest and tells how much money you spend and talk about the measures. It sounds great that you reduce emissions by the equivalent x thousand cars, but the problem for the government is that the figures we suggest would give a 50 times greater emission reduction. If you do not have control of your figures and know what you are expected to achieve, you will go wrong, and that is unfortunately what the government has done on this issue.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-738	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler and the Moderates seem to live in a fantasy world that is not real. That the actions of the Moderates would do more good at all is not true. We know, of course, that many of the projects that the Moderates want to put their limited – I would like to stress – resources at all do not happen. Sometimes they lead to people being displaced from the areas where they live, as in the Rampur project in northern India, where a large hydroelectric plant has been built. It may be that you invest in coal power projects in China with international investments in so-called CDM projects. These could be tree plantings where the trees don't last after a couple of years. These are not additional projects, and this has been evaluated and criticised in a variety of independent studies. What we're doing, Jonas Jacobsson, is we're realigning. Our municipalities, regions, county councils and companies like these projects. This is why the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has received so many applications – almost 600 projects have so far been implemented. It's not x cars, Jonas Jacobsson. There are 50,000 cars that drive around the world once; that is the positive climate effect of this. We should remember that with Moderate policies there will be no new charging stations, no new biogas plants, no investments in district heating, no expanded bicycle infrastructure, no climate information so that we can change locally and communicate about the climate with our residents. That is the harsh truth about Moderate policies, which cut more than 2 billion in this important area of expenditure. So I would like to ask again: how can these major reductions, Jonas Jacobsson, lead to positive effects on the environment and the climate? They don't.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-744	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear that Jens Holm apparently has no faith in international projects, including the UN's programme to reduce climate emissions. I think this is a sad news, because I believe that this is one of the most important things we can do to reduce emissions. This does not mean that there are no problems in those programmes, too; it goes without saying. There are examples of it not working as intended and even working badly. Nevertheless, I am convinced that this is one of the most important things we can do. It was very sad to hear from Jens Holm that he doesn't believe in that kind of program at all. Actually, I didn't expect that. The fact that municipalities and county councils like these projects is quite easy to understand – they can get funding for half of the things they might have planned to do to a large extent. At least it was with the Klimp, where the additionality that was said was bad. Regardless of this, it is clear that you will be happy if you get half the cost of doing something paid. But someone is paying for this. Increased taxes on jobs and growth by 40 billion will also hit the municipalities. With lower growth and fewer jobs, there will also be lower tax revenues for them in the end. Jens Holm says there would be fewer charging stations. It's all wrong. We have separate money for the charging infrastructure; let me be clear about that. The problem for Jens Holm and the government parties is still that even if it is equivalent to 50 000 cars today, our corresponding money means 50 times 50 000 cars, that is 2 1⁄2 million cars. Then we'll still beat you. We focus on limiting emissions, not limiting transport. We think that the government should come up with a better vehicle tax system. We believe that a proposal for a reduction obligation should be made in order to reduce emissions in the transport sector. We have proposals for things that should be done, but the government is poor at delivering.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-751	Mr President, I would like to This has been an interesting discussion. It is exciting that the Moderates are still discussing climate policy. Of course, it is good that we are helping to reduce climate emissions in other parts of the world. Now, however, we have a cross-block agreement on how to reduce emissions in Sweden as well. Of course, we must do a great deal to achieve that. I also see that climate life is an important part of it. I would like to mention something that Jonas Gjörtler said nothing about in his speech, namely the important appropriations for protection and management of a valuable nature. In spring 2014, the alliance government submitted a bill to the Riksdag. It was a Swedish strategy for biodiversity and ecosystem services. Then, in accordance with the Government's proposal, the Riksdag decided that we should protect at least 20 per cent of Sweden's land and freshwater areas and 10 per cent of the marine areas by 2020. We will do this to help meet national and international biodiversity targets. It also set an hectare value: an additional 150 000 hectares of forest land would be protected by 2020, compared with 2012. The Environmental Protection Agency has then stated that this objective will not be achieved unless extra money is allocated. That is exactly what the government is doing now. Around 1.2 billion have been allocated to protection of a valuable nature. It's a grant that the Moderates want to halve. I would therefore like to ask Jonas Gjörtler: are the Moderates no longer behind this objective, which the alliance government actually set out?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-755	Mr President, I would like to Stina Bergström begins by addressing the cross-block agreements and is primarily aimed at the Environmental Objectives Committee. It is linked to the climate issue and the importance of reducing emissions. I share the view that it is important to reduce emissions and to do so quickly. I think that the Environmental Objectives Committee also has a good plan for how this can happen. It is also well in line with the proposals we have in the transport sector. This is what we think we should focus on. So we should not focus on reducing transport in itself, but on reducing emissions from the transport sector, for example by introducing a reduction obligation, where we follow the emission reduction path that the Environmental Objectives Committee has. The reduction obligation should follow it, so that we can reduce the emissions from transport for those parts of the fleet that will not be able to operate with electricity or otherwise in the foreseeable future. We must realise that a large part of the cars that are rolling on the roads today will remain in 2030. This is the single most important thing that the government could do here at home. It is an issue we own ourselves and where the tools really exist. It's all about getting out. There, however, nothing happens, unfortunately. Stina Bergström addresses other aspects and issues relating to other appropriations. We are talking, for example, about measures to protect valuable nature. We have thus chosen to return to the appropriations for 2015 with a certain list. It is therefore true that it is a clear reduction in relation to the Government's proposal. But that is because we have other priorities in terms of how to raise this money. It is quite easy to take a lot of money into increased taxes and yet have a large deficit, as the government has in its budget option. We have a budget in balance. We are not taking 40 billion into increased taxes. That is why we also need to make some other priorities.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-760	Mr President, I would like to Since I was in the Environmental Objectives Committee, I know that there are many more proposals there to bring down climate emissions in addition to ensuring that we get other fuels for cars. An important part is that we stated that cycling, walking and public transport should be the current norm when planning urban areas, major urban areas and cities, as well as that there should be busses and trains between towns. Urban environmental agreements are an important means of achieving this. They are about giving state subsidies to cities to promote collective skiing and also to increase construction. There is a major housing shortage in the country. These are projects that would not happen without government funding. For example, taking trams in cities is very expensive. Few or no municipalities can do it without receiving state subsidies. But let me return to this with protection of a valuable nature. I don't think I got a real answer to that question. If we look at the pace that the government has now set in terms of protection of a valuable nature, we should be honest and state that even that money is not enough to achieve the objective that was adopted during the time of the alliance government. Perhaps up to 90-95% of the hectares we have said should be protected according to the target. The money still leads to a doubling of the number of nature reserves from 130 to about 300 per year. With the halving of the appropriation proposed by the Moderates, we would not achieve at all the objective that Parliament and the Alliance Government actually decided once. My question is once again: Do the Moderates not stand firm on that decision and policy?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-763	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, in addition to focusing on all three parts of the concept of sustainability and their balance, I mentioned that our approach to environmental and climate policy is based on four foundations. I believe that all four are important, and they also provide many of the answers to how we view these questions. International efforts are, I believe, very important. For example, we spend more money on CDM than the government does because it also produces good results. I mentioned technological developments. We have been into this with the reduction obligation. It is a way for the state, without having to spend a lot of money itself, to make demands that can lead to technology development. We have a lot of companies that are ready to produce biofuels if only the conditions are in place. Then we do not need to reduce transport in itself, but can focus on emissions. The third part was market-based solutions. The reduction obligation is an example of this, which requires that this will benefit biofuels with the highest emission reduction per krona. It is therefore cost-effectiveness as well, which is then the fourth foundation of our view of these issues. Precisely on the issue of climate change, it is extremely important to consider cost-effectiveness. It is urgent to bring down climate emissions, and we cannot afford to engage in expensive, inefficient projects in Sweden that provide very limited climate benefits, but we must focus on what really produces results. Finally, on the protection of nature, we are making a different priority. We perceive in part that there is an edge ring going on, especially when you look at the forest. The balance between production and environmental objectives tends to shift towards environmental objectives. We do not think we need to increase this at the moment. We also have very protected land right from the start. This applies in particular to the forest, where we are already well above the targets mentioned by Stina Bergström.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-769	Mr President, I would like to It is quite nice to listen to Moderate Jacobsson Gjörtler in this debate, I think. What I understood was international work, technology development, responsible market economy tools, climate benefits, cost-effectiveness and so on. These are things that we in the Swedish Democrats can definitely sign up to. However, we do have some question marks. The opposition climate policy is, as we can see, above all rhetorical. In practical action, the Moderates show a completely different side. For example, the Moderates have had a rather high tailline in the division of responsibilities in terms of emissions within the European Union. They have criticised the government for negotiating the absolutely worst agreement for Sweden. So we are going to reduce emissions most of all. We are thus enabling other countries to escape. Some countries can even increase emissions because we are negotiating so badly. We dealt with this in the EU Council. First, it expressed a critical opinion of the Commission's proposal and sought to persuade the government to work for a different solution. The minister got a little angry and barked a little at the Moderates. The result was that the Moderates bought the government's proposal. Why did they do that?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-772	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear Martin Kinnunen from SD raise issues related to the climate. Normally, when you hear the Swedish Democrats talk about climate policy, they tend to suggest that this is not really a problem and that we don't have to do anything at all in Sweden. That's not the tone we hear here. It is actually nice, but I still ask myself a little bit about how the Swedish Democrats view the climate issue. Martin Kinnunen is very happy to make that clear – it may come in the speech later. How do you view the climate issue? Is it important? Is it important to reduce climate emissions or not? Then there is the question of what was said and not said in the EU Council. I wasn't there. I'm not on the EU Board. But I remember the discussions that we had in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. We also had a lot of discussions ahead of the meeting of the EU Board. These included land-use change, LULUCF. There we got the government to adopt a different position from that originally adopted. Our action by the Alliance – I would like to remember that the Swedish Democrats joined this – actually meant that the Swedish position was much better. We protect Swedish forestry, for example, and the independence for this in a completely different and better and clearer way than we would otherwise have done. I have to say that I do not really understand what Martin Kinnunen is asking for here. But it is possible that it can be made clear.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-776	Mr President, I would like to Absolutely. Our parties made a good effort for Swedish forests in the EU Board – we did. What I was talking about was that the Moderates disagreed. The Moderates wanted to say no to the Commission's proposal on burden-sharing, which the Moderates criticised. But the meeting ended with buying the proposal. I think that is a rhetorical opposition policy. This goes hand in hand with other things. We have a chemical tax, for example. In this respect, the Moderates have also had a very high tailline. It has been criticised. It is stated in its budget that it is bad, that it should be done differently and that it will not lead to any environmental benefit. Nevertheless, it is budgeted to collect that tax money so that you can make your own investments. It is a rhetorical opposition policy. The environmental objectives committee has been mentioned in the discussions before. Jacobsson Gjörtler talked about calculations – it is important that we cost everything. Efforts are being made to highlight different emission reduction mechanisms and so on. However, the Institute of Economic Development has established that the cost estimates of the Environmental Objectives Committee are very poor. They don't make sense. It's impossible to appreciate anything. They have also stated that: A climate policy that does not use CO2 tax as an instrument but uses different types of regulation will not be able to lower other distortive taxes and thus the costs of the policy will be higher. ..................................................... They have therefore turned against the sectoral climate targets, which focus unilaterally on reducing emissions in a particular sector while ignoring how costly it is. So you don't care about the global perspective, which the Moderates care about. This also suggests rhetorical climate policy.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-781	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Martin Kinnunen, for that speech. As far as the chemical tax is concerned, it is true that we are very critical of how the government has chosen to implement it. This does not mean that we are against a chemical tax as such. But we think it is a bad form and that it should be redesigned. That is true, but in principle we can still buy that you have a chemical tax. Then we are back on climate issues. The question you should ask yourself is what we should do here in Sweden. Now we recognize more the Swedish Democrats, because what we hear here is that we should not really do anything in Sweden, according to Martin Kinnunen. I do not share that view. Martin Kinnunen refers to Konjunkturinstitutet. They and others have made some criticisms of the Environmental Objectives Committee and of the Government in terms of cost-effectiveness, among other things. It is easy to agree with many of the criticisms from both the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Financial Policy, for example. But let me put it this way: we share the view that sectoral targets should not be set. The transport sector is an exception, for the very simple reason that the transport sector is the biggest challenge we have in Sweden. That's a reason. That is where we really can and should do something. The starting point for the Council of Finance Ministers, among other things, is to say that the most important thing we can achieve is to reduce the use of coal in the world. We agree with that. But then the question is: How interchangeable is oil and coal at the margin? Just because we use less oil in the transport sector in Sweden, it is not self-evident that it pops up as coal use in another country, we believe, which in practice is the conclusion that could then be drawn. We do not therefore share the view that a sector-specific case for the transport sector in Sweden would be a bad thing. On the contrary, we believe that something is good.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-785	Mr President, I would like to We are debating Category 20. We have no reservations, so I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats in the report. The environment is a priority area for the Swedish Democrats. This applies both to the environment globally and to the environment in Sweden. But when we are in the Swedish Parliament and are going to decide on our budget and the direction it should have, it is unfortunately that it is in principle only in Sweden that we can do significant benefit. Mr President, I would like to We have our water. In particular, the Baltic Sea is and has been a problem area, where eutrophication plays a prominent role. This inland sea is particularly sensitive because there are 90 million people in its vicinity. It is a limited amount of water and a limited exchange of water. We want to significantly increase the priority given to the marine and aquatic environment and therefore want to add 150 million extra to it. These funds could be used for measures to improve, conserve, restore and protect marine and aquatic environments. Another major environmental problem in Sweden is the contaminated areas that exist. It is about 80 000, of which 10 000 are particularly contaminated and particularly dangerous. These are areas that we certainly do not want to hand over to future generations, even if today we look like we are going to do so. We got a draw in committee the other week. It made most people even more distressed, since the problems are in all areas. How do you go about it and get the job done? How to identify where the areas are? How do you identify who's going to pay? In short, there are a great many problems. There is a need to speed up this. In addition to increasing funding, we want to review the work on identification and try to find new methods to enable more efficient clean-up work together with the business community. Mr President, I would like to We have already had a taste of it in the debate, but we will hear a lot about how opposition parties want to cut back on this appropriation. It is quite consistent how we want to reduce the funding from all opposition parties. You have to admit that. It's a fact. The government wants to spend a lot more money. But let me be clear: there is no intrinsic value in spending money, especially when the investments are ill-thought out and ineffective, and especially when it comes to borrowed money and other funds created by directly harmful taxes, such as the chemical tax that I spoke of earlier, which is completely unenvironmentally beneficial but has a major negative impact on business. If it were for all the budgetary areas, which are important, a competition for who can spend the most, we would soon have a Greek situation in this Parliament. It does not benefit anyone in the end, nor does it benefit the environment. A budget must be balanced. That is why we have a budget in balance. The government's environmental budget is about a billion-dollar roll to limit the Swedish forestry industry, which is an rarely seen Swedish success story where we protect large quantities of forest – far more than this 20% is exempt from forestry today. Although we have increased felling, the forest has grown. The last thing we need now is cluttering politicians who want to increase bureaucracy, create regulations for more litigation and spend a lot of money on acquiring forest areas away from the industry. This is the last thing we need right now. Mr President, I would like to We in the Swedish Democrats stress that the used forest does not have to be a bad forest either. Almost all the forests we have in Sweden have been used. On the contrary, we can link stock limits, i.e. managed forests, at different stages with biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, we come to the government's ineffective climate policy. This is a policy that consists of unbalanced efforts, criminal taxation of companies and rural and climate targets that have been condemned by both the Institute of Economic Development and the Council of Finance Policy. The government combines this policy with working at EU level for the absolutely worst deal that Sweden can get: We will reduce emissions most of all, so that other countries can reduce emissions less. The Alliance is obediently watching in its rhetorical opposition policy in this area. What you should do is understand a few things. There is much talk about what we have to do because of the Paris climate agreement, but this agreement does not force any country to do much. It has several advantages. It improves monitoring, for example, and it improves standards for measuring emissions and the like, but it should be clear that this agreement in itself does not force any country to do anything of great importance. It should be borne in mind that our gross emissions represent about 1 1⁄2 per mil of the world's gross emissions. Our net emissions are very much lower. And it is only what we release ourselves that we can influence through these – inefficient – investments. We can, of course, enable significant reductions in our very small and limited emissions in Sweden. We can ignore technology development. We can ignore what the Council of Finance Ministers says about the oil that we are saving in Sweden being consumed in any case in another country. We can ignore the fact that we are likely to move and multiply our emissions once they have been transferred to other countries, as a result of a very poor business environment, in combination with carbon leakage. For example, according to Konjunkturinstitutet, the high goal of environmental preparation requires fuel prices of over SEK 40 litres. Is it any of you who has supported the proposal of the Environmental Objectives Committee that dares to say this to those who wish to do so? Mr President, I would like to I mentioned earlier in my speech that we are happy to focus more on national and regional problems, although of course we also have a global perspective. For example, we see a major problem with the crop-based biofuels. This discussion requires a little reflection. By consuming biofuels, we are moving emissions to other countries. This can improve our own accounting, but in a system perspective emissions, at best, are reduced very little. According to a Transport and Environment report, global greenhouse gas emissions are actually increasing through Europe's use of agricultural fuels, so the environmental movement in Europe and the European Commission do not want to benefit these fuels. In addition, this consumption actually costs money due to tax reductions – this is a multibillion dollar. The background is, of course, the sectoral climate targets that I touched upon in a previous change of line. For this reason, it is high time for a more effective climate policy.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-806	Mr President, I would like to When you compare the draft budgets that exist, you are horrified when you look at the Swedish Democrats' proposals on this important area of expenditure, which concerns the environment and climate. The Swedish Democrats, next to the Christian Democrats, are the party that wants to cut back on this area: a total of SEK 2.8 billion. With such large reductions, we can be sure that there will be no climate change in Sweden, no more protected forest areas and so on. Martin Kinnunen tried to describe it as the Swedish Democrats want to invest in this area. He said that we want to invest more money in the Baltic Sea and that we want to invest more money in land remediation. At least the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency does not get any cuts with the Swedish Democrats' budget. But then we should remember that the Swedish Democrats' budget does not exist. When we voted on the financial perspectives the other week – i.e. how much money can be spent in Sweden's state budget – the Swedish Democrats' alternatives were voted down immediately. What do the Swedish Democrats do the seconds afterwards? Well, then the Swedish Democrats vote for the Moderates' budgetary framework. It is therefore the Moderates' budget that the Swedish Democrats support. In the Moderates' budget, there is no extra effort on the Baltic Sea and no extra effort to clean up the ground, but there are major reductions at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which will coordinate this important work. Martin Kinnunen: How come you can stand and say that you should invest in these areas when you vote for a budget that cuts them?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-811	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear that I and other Swedish democrats voted for the Swedish Democrats' budget. When it fell, we voted for the Moderates' budget. We have been very clear about this. The explanation is quite simple: We have a non-socialist majority in the Swedish parliament, which should give a ruling on how Sweden's money is distributed. When we compare the government's budget with the Moderates' budget, we think the Moderates' budget is better. It's no harder than that. This does not mean that we think it is better than our own, in the same way that I would think Jens Holm does not think that everything in the government budget is particularly good. However, I would rather talk about our own budget, which is actually what I am here to talk about. The budget is, of course, a whole. We are cutting back on this appropriation because we think that the money is doing better elsewhere. We think it is better not to debt our children by borrowing money today. It is better to have a budget in balance. It is better to refrain from inefficient climate investments in Sweden, which are very expensive in relation to what they contribute. We can do better than that with our taxes.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-814	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to be honest in this debate. It is just as Martin Kinnunen says: We in the Left Party do not think that everything in the state budget is good, which we are also open with. But we are also open to saying that we have negotiated with the government, and we take responsibility for the entire budget. What the Swedish Democrats do from the Parliament's pulpit is to seduce the voters. They say that they want to invest in the Baltic Sea, and they say that they want to invest in cleaning up contaminated land. In fact, however, there is no money for it, because it has voted in favour of the Moderates' budget, and that budget contains major cuts in these areas. The least one can demand from Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats are they are honest and honest and tell voters that they voted for the Moderates' budget, and it means big cuts in this area. Otherwise, you're not credible.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-817	Mr President, I would like to I think this is a bit like throwing stones in glass houses. In all sorts of debates in this House, we have left-wing parties who criticise the government's policy and say that it should pursue a different policy, but still vote for the least bad budget option. I understand that this is what you think, because from the left-wing side, it should be the least bad budget option. Here in the Swedish Parliament we have a special situation. We have an opposition which is largely a rhetorical opposition. Therefore, we give them the chance to show that they really want to control Sweden. However, they do not want that, and it is very important that we show this to our voters and also to their voters. We could have another government, and we could pursue a completely different policy in this House. But because of fear among the rest of the opposition, we cannot achieve this. We show good will and show that this is the second best option that anyone would rule Sweden with, and then we open up to it. That does not mean, however, that we think their budget is better than ours.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-820	Mr President, I would like to It cannot be said that both the Swedish Democrats and all bourgeois parties are proposing substantial reductions in the environmental budget. The Swedish Democrats are proposing a reduction of minus 2.2 billion. That means massive layoffs. It is a whole host of jobs that will disappear if the Swedish Democrats are allowed to decide. It is becoming increasingly obvious that the Swedish Democrats are not a party that cares particularly much about Swedish jobs or workers' conditions. The environmental budget announces substantial cuts and redundancies, and collective agreements should not apply to public procurement. In addition, the Swedish Democrats do not think that we should go ahead and pick up the new sustainable jobs by being a successful country in the climate transition. The last thing I can add is that the Swedish Democrats do not think that we should stand up for international environmental agreements, which must mean that the Swedish Democrats also think it's okay for others to compete for Swedish jobs with worse environmental conditions than we have in Sweden. It is quite clear that this is not just a party that is not exactly top of the flag when it comes to taking environmental and climate responsibility and changing Sweden to more sustainability and that we should do ours here at home. In fact, you do not stand up for the Swedish jobs either. Why is that?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-824	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for the lesson in socialist ideology! It was great with the energy there. I should also like to add that we always keep the flag to the top. As far as international agreements are concerned, I do not really know what the honourable Member is saying that we do not want to keep. We want to change some international agreements, but until then we think that we should keep them and that other countries should also do so. We want to see more international agreements so that we can have a level playing field in the global market. It is very important for the Swedish jobs. When it comes to Swedish jobs, we have a different view of how to create jobs and growth. We don't think it's the state that's supposed to do this, that it's tax money that's supposed to create jobs and drive growth. Money is used inefficiently in government agencies that employ a great many people. For example, the Migration Agency has increased its staff to terrible levels. We see no problem with these people losing their jobs and having to look for other jobs, because their work efforts are certainly more useful elsewhere and can help create jobs and growth in society. We do not believe that it is through government funding that we are creating jobs and growth. And I have no problem saying that we can use this money more effectively in other areas and that we do not need to go into debt for that.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-827	Mr President, I would like to We can only say for the sake of the debate that, for example, the IMF has examined Swedish policy and concluded that we are pursuing a very balanced economic policy and a very good fiscal policy. That's a pretty good grade for the Swedish Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. After all, we worked off a rather substantial deficit after excesses with tax cuts on the part of the bourgeois parties, which the Swedish Democrats did not directly resist. Now we get a balance and move towards surplus. When it comes to standing up for the Swedish jobs, you did not do so when it came to collective agreements in public procurement. And you don't do it when it comes to taking climate good jobs home to Sweden, where we can be part of a world that changes to more sustainability. As far as international environmental agreements are concerned, you are proposing a huge deterioration in the management of Swedish forests and biodiversity in Swedish forests. In fact, we have signed international agreements to enable us to live up to biodiversity, not least in Swedish forests. We also have a forest industry that is based on the fact that we manage our environmental values in the forest, because that's how you get the forest certified and that's how you get the forest sold out on the world market. Not to stand up for us to take environmental responsibility for the Swedish forest is to betray the Swedish jobs in the Swedish forest industry.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-831	Mr President, I would like to Quite rightly, we do not stand up for the government's high tax policy. We would like to try to allow lower taxes, so that people can keep more of their money and they can choose what they want to do with them instead of the state choosing. Fundamental to our view of taxes is that we should charge as little as possible but of course maintain the best service we can achieve. As far as international agreements on forests are concerned, there are different ways of looking at them. I note that the forestry industry is not particularly favourable to many of the reforms that the government is planning to implement in this area, which seek to increase bureaucracy and create potentially enormous problems when all kinds of people can appeal against logging decisions. It is also a fact that more than 30% of forests today are excluded from forestry. Our view is that we already meet the environmental objective today. This is a complex issue that can be debated for a long time, but I do not intend to go into it in detail. It is a fact that over 30 per cent of Swedish forests are free from forestry today.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-834	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to see that Sweden continues to have high ambitions for the climate and for the environment. But a real environmental shift requires policies that encourage innovation and green entrepreneurship while facilitating and supporting economic growth and change. Therefore, we in the Center Party believe that it is very important to work with green tax shifting, where the polluter has to pay for his environmental damage and the resources are used instead to reduce the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. In the budget that we have presented this year, we are further strengthening the green tax shift and proposing a green tax shift of a total of 33 billion over the next four years. It is a comprehensive programme for reducing emissions in the transport sector, creating incentives for a circular economy and contributing to a non-toxic everyday life, while at the same time rewarding work, entrepreneurship and renewable energy. Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the first area, the climate. When we stood here in this room a year ago debating this area, the Paris Agreement had just come to an end. Today it is ratified and has entered into force. This is of course extremely important in the fight against climate change. At the same time, we see that 2015 and 2016 goes into history as the warmest years since the measurements started over a hundred years ago. It is clear that Sweden and other countries in the world must speed up this transition. We look with great concern at the fact that climate emissions in Sweden are, unfortunately, increasing with the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government. The positive trend during the time of the alliance government, when we increased growth while reducing environmental and climate emissions, is a trend that has been broken. We say that one key to achieving reduced climate emissions is to switch our fleet of vehicles to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. In this respect, the Environmental Objectives Committee has set ambitious targets by aiming for 70% emission reductions in the transport sector by 2030. It's important. The transport sector accounts for one third of our emissions, which is why this is a priority area. Unfortunately, the trend of reduced emissions from the transport sector has also halted. And unfortunately, we see that the budget submitted by the government has no real concrete measures in the near future to break this trend. We believe that the challenge for the transport sector is to reduce emissions from vehicles already rolling on our roads, but we also believe that it is important to ensure that there are clear incentives to choose the most climate efficient transport options in the case of, for example, new car purchases or when the vehicle is to be refuelled or loaded. Policies such as tax exemptions for biofuels, differentiated vehicle tax and super-environmental car premium have contributed to improvements. However, we must accelerate this transition and introduce new, developed instruments to achieve a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. Environmental car premiums and charges have proved important in order to quickly shift the vehicle fleet and reduce climate emissions. Therefore, the Center Party has for several years been pushing for a so-called bonus – malus system to be introduced. This means that new purchases of low or zero-emission cars receive substantial environmental bonuses that are financed by charges on high-emission cars. This is something that we have been pushing and about which the government has been talking, but the government has still not come back with a clear proposal. We look forward to something coming. While the government parties see a tax at a distance as the best solution for reducing emissions in the transport sector, we see that the key is to offer the transport sector an opportunity for change that strengthens competitiveness rather than putting away the sector's bones. In order to accelerate technology development and create a strong Swedish market for environmental trucks, the Center Party wants to see an environmental truck premium introduced. An important key to reducing emissions from the transport sector and increasing the use of biofuels is a quota obligation or reduction system where the focus is on the climate efficiency of fuels. Pending the introduction of a system of obligations, Sweden should continue to pursue the possibility of exemption from CO2 tax on renewable fuels so that these fuels can continue to be an important part of the climate change of the Swedish vehicle fleet. Sweden is an elongated country where many have no alternative to the car. Therefore, the Center Party believes that it is important to pursue emissions instead of cars. Another area I want to highlight is the work for a nontoxic everyday life. Financial incentives, such as specific chemicals taxes and producer responsibility, should be used to accelerate the transition to more sustainable alternatives. There is a great number of darkness when it comes to dangerous and prohibited substances in our everyday lives. Sample checks carried out by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate in 2016 found banned chemicals in 38 per cent of the low-priced electrical products. Among other things, we analysed headphones, bike lights and USB connectors, i.e. things we have in our everyday lives. It is a major problem that substances currently banned in the EU can be present in imported goods. The Center Party therefore wants to see a special effort in the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, customs and municipalities to find these products, remove rogue importers and help shops to make demands on non-toxic products. It is also important that Sweden takes a concerted approach at EU level and raises the level of ambition in international chemical work. Another important environmental area is to create the conditions for a circular economy. We must have a working cycle within communities and between cities and countries. In recent years, the import of garbage has doubled in Sweden, and the expansion of incineration plants has taken place rapidly. It has strengthened energy supply and reduced landfills. For the Center Party, however, it is self-evident to try to close the loops and use the resources we have in the best way. In order to steer towards increased recycling and more resource efficiency, the Center Party wants to see a tax on waste incineration. We also want to strengthen production support for biogas and investment support for biogas plants. The cycle also needs to be strengthened to reduce the presence of hazardous chemicals, microplastics and marine debris in our water areas. Of the total quantity of littering objects in the oceans, the majority is made up of plastic. In order to achieve the objective of the EU Directive on packaging and packaging waste and to reduce the use of lightweight plastic bags, the Center Party wants an environmental levy on plastic bags to be introduced. Mr President, I would like to For us in the Center Party, the way forward is clear. Sweden needs a new leadership where environment and climate go hand in hand with economic growth. We need a policy that drives the transition to a circular economy based on the green carbon atom, a policy that creates long-term rules of play for a sustainable transport sector and a policy that is serious about green tax shifting.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-857	Mr President, I would like to I thank Kristina Yngwe for an interesting speech. I'm going to connect with this whole non-toxic everyday life and chemicals policy thing. Here we have a good consensus in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, and we have pushed these issues well together. Several things that Kristina Yngwe mentioned in her speech, such as bonuses – the Malus and Obligation System, are things that the Environmental Party and now the government are working on. It is a pity that this work did not start already during the last parliamentary term, because then it would have gone faster. But I have great hope that it will soon be in place. It is also gratifying that the Center Party thinks it is a good idea to increase the CO2 tax to reduce emissions from traffic. It therefore agrees with the proposal made by the Government in its budget. Kristina Yngwe mentioned biogas. It is very important to increase the production of renewable fuels, including biogas. The Center Party allocates 20 million in its draft budget. This is to be set against the 346 million that have already been distributed for biogas investment from the Government's Climatehive. Let me get back to the poison-free business. I am surprised that the Center Party wants to reduce the funding for the sanerin g of contaminated areas by 310 million. Only the Centers, Moderates and Christian Democrats do not see this as a priority. Why do you want to reduce the grant, Kristina Yngwe?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-863	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Bergström for both the question and the praise. Of course, it is a pleasure to hear that you look very positively on the budget we have presented. With our budget, we are trying to produce results in environmental work. We are not engaged in placard politics and symbolic politics instead of delivering results here and now. Stina Bergström mentions bonus – malus. The government has long promised it will come, but it is delayed and delayed. As far as the obligation to be bound is concerned, the government has said, for the whole term of office, that it will come back, but I do not see much happening. It is of course welcome when it comes, but in the transport sector very few concrete measures are taken that make a difference. The Center Party has proposals, and we would like the government to accept these proposals. Of course, the issue of decontamination is important. The government's investment will probably not solve everything, because there is a lot of land that needs to be cleaned up. What you should also have in mind is where the money comes from. The money comes from tax increases made around the country. We have chosen a different priority, but we also say that we must continue to work on the contaminated soil. There are other ways to clean that will be more cost-effective forward, and that is interesting to follow. But no, we have not chosen to use the tax money for this particular purpose.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-870	Mr President, I would like to I get a little worried when Kristina Yngwe says that we should wait for better technology to clean up the contaminated areas. These are ticking environmental bombs. It is old sawmills, laundries and gas stations whose poisons have already begun to spread in land and waterways, so this must be done as soon as possible. Where there is someone responsible for these installations, it is obvious that they should pay according to the polluter pays principle. However, for many contaminated areas, there is a lack of responsibility. Then it takes government money for municipalities to be able to clean up these areas. The government doubled the grant already last year and this year allocates another 10 million. Kristina Yngwe belongs to one of the parties that has pushed that alongside environmental classification – when deciding which areas to go first and are the most dangerous bombs, so to speak – should also be considered if new housing is to be built. This means that even more money is needed. It worries me quite a bit that the Center Party is not standing up for the clean-up. Moreover, it is often smaller rural municipalities with small financial resources that need this money best.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-875	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Stina Bergström! As I said, it is important to have with you where the money spent comes from. We are trying to make long-term investments instead, so that we can get more money and help the municipalities make these investments in the future. If there are more jobs and companies in the municipalities, this means increased tax revenue and more money to make investments. The same applies to the State. If you make tax increases that do not mean that we do not have jobs and entrepreneurship, it means, in the same way, that we do not get the same amount of money for public finances – money that can be used later on, for example, for the clean-up of land. As I said, one gets the picture of Stina Bergström that the initiative made by the government will solve everything, but that is not the case. There are parts that are urgent, but it is perhaps to draw a little too large gears to be horrified that I say that it is positive and that there is a lot of new technology that can clean in a much more cost-effective way than today. We think this is an important issue. The Center Party is pushing that it is important not to pollute new land. We have PFAS, which is a problem in fire foam. The government still allows it to be used in defense exercises, which means that land and water are polluted around the country. We certainly think this is an important issue to work on.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-880	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to be careful to say that the government – Social Democrats and environmentalists supported by the Left Party – does not spend much money on the environmental budget because it is a competition in who spends the most money, but the reason is that we have set up a number of environmental goals in Sweden – 16 of them. We only achieve two of these environmental objectives, and there are the same two where we have been stuttering for ten years. We should be aware that we need a policy that not only brings new money but also other strategies to achieve more environmental objectives. Having said that, I hear many fine words about climate and environment when Kristina Yngwe gives her speeches. I've done that before, too. Much of what Kristina Yngwe says in the debate is fairly consistent with such a progressive environmental and climate policy that I and the Social Democrats are behind – a policy to achieve environmental objectives. However, action must also show that it is serious. The Centre Party had a chance to make its own budget that was not forced by moderate executive strategists who are in favour of tax cuts, which always take precedence over investments in the environment. But you didn't really take the chance, Kristina Yngwe. Your proposal on the environment budget is rather sad reading. There are lots of negative signs, but no exclamation marks: −2.1 billion in this area of expenditure. One in five employees at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will have to quit. Where are the Center's measures to achieve environmental objectives, Kristina Yngwe?
i-3oQtmFJVSefNqKKarBNi9H	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for the question! It is quite strong for Matilda Ernkrans to stand here and say that the policy of the Center Party does not lead to action and results. Looking back on, not least, the work done on climate emissions during the time of the Center Party at the ministerial post, we see quite a lot that shows that our actual policy of government has produced results. We reduced climate emissions, and we increased wind power, renewable energy and the share of renewables in the idea. A lot has happened. To stand here and claim that the Center Party does not have a policy that produces results and shows action is to be taken. We have made our own budget, and we are very proud of the budget that we have presented. We are putting a lot of effort into green tax shifting, which we believe will make a difference in the future. That is what will bring about a transition in Sweden in the long term. What is needed by entrepreneurs and municipalities is to have long-term rules of play. We are introducing taxes on combustion and on plastic bags, and we are removing exemptions on carbon tax and fossil fuels. It is such a green tax shift that can produce long-term results, not the inclusion of various support measures here and there. These are needed in order to get started, but what makes the transition in the long term is long-term rules of play in the form of a green tax shift. When we use the money in the second line to lower the cost of jobs and entrepreneurship, we get a bigger bag of money to use in the downstream. The policy pursued by the Center Party is a long-term responsible policy to get more money to invest in the environment and climate in the long run.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-890	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Kristina Yngwe and the Center Party that economic instruments and taxes are an important instrument for moving in the right direction in a society. I think whoever pollutes the environment should pay for it. However, the government – the Social Democrats and the Green Party with the support of the Left Party – think that it is smart to use some of our common money to make joint investments that make environmental work even faster, so that we reach more environmental goals. However, it cannot be that the Center Party and Kristina Yngwe are satisfied that the same two environmental objectives – the safe radiation environment and the protection of ozone layer – were reached when the Center Party entered government power in 2006. It is still these two objectives that we expect to achieve. But we do have a number of other goals that we have also said we should achieve, including the climate target. It is a fact that if we are to meet our domestic climate targets, which we have set together, by 2020 emissions reductions of about 4 tonnes are missing here at home in Sweden. Then we must invest here at home in order to reduce emissions. We were told clearly by Kristina Yngwe's moderate colleague that this is at least not something that the Moderates are pushing. They want to make international efforts, but not here at home in Sweden, because it is not cost-effective enough. The Center Party is a party that says no to, for example, the climate investment money – the climate economy – which is investing at home to reduce emissions and to enable us to graze the last 4 tons that you left when you left the government. We must take responsibility for this. What is your policy forward?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-895	Mr President, I would like to One cannot directly blame the current government for implementing a policy that makes so much difference. If we look at the latest measurements from SCB regarding climate emissions in Sweden, we see that these are starting to increase again. We also see that the downward trend in emissions from the transport sector has started to reverse. One important reason for this is the reduction in the use of biofuels in the idea. This is a huge problem, and I cannot imagine that the government and Matilda Ernkrans are particularly proud to have reversed the development that existed when the alliance government was in power. In the Center Party's budget, we have many proposals on how to take responsibility for domestic emissions. I've given a couple of different examples about bonus- malus and obligation. We have a tax on electricity, which fortunately was removed. This is not exactly a positive thing in order to be able to change Sweden. The Center Party believes it is important that Sweden takes hold of the emissions we have. This is an important part, and we have supported this in the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee. It was we who pushed for a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. I think that we take our responsibility, make efforts and put forward political proposals to reduce Sweden's impact in the emissions sector.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-900	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to listen to Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party, because there was a lot in her speech that I thought was good. But, Kristina Yngwe, almost none of the investments you mentioned are in this spending area. These are initiatives and measures that exist in other areas of government spending. We are talking here about Category 20, and that is what is commonly referred to as the environment and climate budget. There are, for example, investments in the protection of valuable nature – that more nature reserves should be built and, overall, more land should be protected, usually forest land. If we are to be credible in this context, we need a lot of money. It costs a lot of money to protect land. If you compare the Government's plus Left Party proposal with the Center Party's proposal, you wonder if the Center Party at all wants to protect more land. In our proposal we allocate SEK 1.3 billion for more protection of land. This is a sharp increase compared to previous bourgeois budgets. The Center Party is the party that wants to cut down the second most of all parties in this area. You want to cut almost the entire grant. You want to remove more than 800 million crowns from the protection of land. Kristina Yngwe mentioned the Environmental Objectives Committee. It proposed protecting an additional 150 000 hectares of productive land in Sweden by 2020. According to evaluations by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, more money is needed to achieve this goal. Kristina Yngwe, how are we going to achieve this goal, which you are behind, when you reduce by 800 million dollars on this? The Left Party believes it is very important to protect more land. But I wonder whether the Center Party is at all interested in protecting more land.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-906	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Of course we think it is important. The Center Party was involved in presenting the Bill on Biological Diversity and of course feels that it is very important that Sweden takes responsibility for achieving what is included in the agreements that we have endorsed. If I am not mistaken, this is an initiative that the government makes several times. This money was taken away in the spring, and now it is being put back again. It is an interesting way to use the budgets to make multiple bets several times. But, of course, we hope that this money will remain and will not disappear. Of course, as I said, we believe that management of nature is important. However, there are some principles that are important in this context. It is a question of a high level of confidence in this in landowners when this is worked out in terms of compensation. We see that this does not really work in all areas. There is great concern among landowners around the country today about the perception of ownership and the possibility of actually influencing the process and rights over their own land. For us to be able to protect more land in the future, we need to look at other options for how this can be done. There are interesting alternatives, such as ecological compensation, and one could look at how, for example, this could be used. I think we need to think a little differently when it comes to finding different methods of protecting forests that may not be as static – that land should not be protected forever. Perhaps other market-oriented solutions can be found.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-910	Mr President, I would like to In fact, this answer made no sense to me. Kristina Yngwe says that it is very important that this money But it is you, Kristina Yngwe, who are taking away this money. You remove SEK 840 million from an appropriation of SEK 1.3 billion. I can agree that it was a little rough for a while from the government. I am not in the government, but I agree with this criticism. However, the reduction of SEK 840 million on this grant does not make it any less difficult. Why do you do it, Kristina Yngwe? You also say that the management of protected areas is very important and that there is a great deal of concern out there among forest owners – and the environmental movement, I would add. Yes, I agree. But we do have a special appropriation precisely for the management of a valuable nature, and that is 1:3 in this report. There we allocate about SEK 1 billion. What's the Center Party doing? This appropriation is reduced by SEK 350 million, i.e. by a third. Why do you do this, Kristina Yngwe, when you say at the same time that you want to achieve environmental objectives and that you think it is very important, as I understand it, to protect more land? How can you protect more when you bring down so much money? How can you take better care of yourself when you bring down so much money? How can we achieve environmental objectives in these areas and our international commitments when we reduce as much as you do in the Center Party?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-913	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jens Holm for the question. One should keep in mind where this money comes from in the first place, and this money comes from tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is the same people who will manage the forest that will walk around and ensure that we get a biodiversity in our nature. Those who manage the forest should ensure that we actually have raw materials to be able to change our society. It is from where this money is taken that will then be placed. Instead, we have chosen a different approach, in which we try to encourage entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship and find new ways of working with the sustainable transition and in the long term find opportunities to bring in tax funds that can be used responsibly. How are we supposed to protect more forest? I believe, as I said, that there may be other possibilities and other methods of protecting the forest. I mentioned, for example, ecological compensation in land exploitation, and I believe that there are more such ways of finding market-friendly and better ways of protecting forests than with government money and money that has been taken in from jobs and entrepreneurship.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-916	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the environment here today, and it is always interesting to discuss proposals in this area on how to improve the environment. I discussed the chemical tax here with the Member of the Moderates. The Moderates are a party that doesn't like the chemical tax and who writes really bad things about it but is still in favour of it. But the Center Party is very enthusiastic about this chemical tax. You want to raise it even more, and it will include more things. This tax is basically about the government and the entire Alliance having a need for more money. You search with light and lantern for new income, and you mask this by wanting to protect the environment. We can see a few things about this tax. It will increase the price of the TV to the children's room by 400 SEK. The price of a computer with a monitor will increase by 800 SEK. And the price of a video game console will increase by 400 crowns. This isn't vital stuff in any way. And if no one buys these things and no one wants them, or if they buy something else, maybe we can improve the environment. But I wonder what the Center Party thinks about this. Does the Center Party believe that this tax will do something good for the environment, and how do they think that jobs in Sweden will be affected?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-920	Mr President, I would like to I thank Martin Kinnunen for the question. Yes, we think that green tax exchange should be a fundamental principle in Sweden. We believe that it is a good principle that we actually increase the costs of what is bad for the environment and instead use this money to lower the costs of jobs and entrepreneurship. On this basis, we set up the study that has produced these proposals. We thought it was important to use economic instruments to reduce the amount of chemicals in our environment. As I said in my speech, there are large occurrences of toxic substances, dangerous substances, in our immediate environment. It is of course our responsibility as politicians to ensure that people are protected from this. It is obviously important that the environmental taxes introduced actually have the desired effect. We are still looking at how best to do this, and we see that there are some shortcomings in the proposal that exists. We also do not want it to be a tax that unilaterally knocks out production in Sweden, but we should have environmental taxes, of course, they should be environmentally responsible. That is, of course, a fundamental principle. However, we still believe that a chemical tax is an opportunity, and we believe that there is a good chance of broadening it to more areas. As I said in my speech, we are also complementing the chemical tax with efforts to gain better control of what is imported into Sweden, in order to ensure that dangerous substances do not enter via imports. However, we believe that green tax exchange is an important principle to work on from outside.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-924	Mr President, I would like to It sounds great with green tax exchange and environmental taxes. We Swedish democrats, too, can agree with that. The problem here is that environmental benefits are non-existent. Even with a struggle effort, it is not possible to produce sustainable arguments for this treasure. In principle, the design of the tax collection lacks a complete incentive to change behaviour by purchasing other products. There are no other products. The tax is also based on a kilo price, and we also have full opportunity to buy the products from other markets. Just go into a price comparison site. It will simply be cheaper to buy the same products but from traders from other countries – traders who do not pay Swedish employers' contributions and taxes. Experts and experts have also considered that the tax is unlikely to lead to a reduction in the use of chemicals at all. That is what makes this tax so fascinating: Seven out of eight parties in the Swedish Parliament want to introduce it, but no one can really say why. Even the Center Party, which wants to raise it, says that it wants to improve the tax. In other words, you also think it is bad, but you want the money. That's what it's all about. Do you think Sony, Samsung and company will change their products for the Swedish market? I really don't understand this. This is probably one of the very worst tax proposals that have been put forward in this House for many years. Most taxes can be seen with some sort of gain, but there are probably only losers here.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-928	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is of course important for the tax to be environmentally responsible. A non-toxic everyday life is a priority for the Center Party, and it is important to continue working on this. That is why we want to be able to continue working on the chemical tax and see that it is extended to more areas. We see a need to reduce the presence of dangerous substances in people's everyday lives. Unfortunately, Martin Kinnunen does not have the opportunity to reply, but it is still striking that the Swedish Democrats do not have any major thoughts on how to reduce the amount of dangerous chemicals in our surrounding world. It wants to leave the European Union, and we see, after all, that the European Union is the opportunity where the great opportunities to influence exist – for strong competitiveness and for the possibility of reducing the amount of dangerous substances in our environment. If we now think that the issue of chemicals is important, it would be desirable not only to question the proposals that come, but actually to put forward our own thoughts on how we can reduce the proportion of hazardous substances in our environment.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-930	Mr President, I would like to Liberal environmental policy is about responsibility based on knowledge and on market principles. We see, of course, that there are many challenges; one can mention climate change, that we have impoverished biodiversity and that we have a shortage of clean water. Not least, we have the spread of chemicals in the environment. Unfortunately, we can see that a debate on environmental policy tends to be very much about the level of appropriations. I think it might be more interesting to discuss our priorities. It is, after all, a matter of priority. All parties must be involved in this, and the word for cost-effectiveness, which has been mentioned here on a number of occasions, is not entirely irrelevant in this context. We can also note that a little over a year ago we received the climate agreement in Paris. Of course, it must lead to political decisions that have a number of consequences, otherwise we do not take the agreement seriously. Then it'll just be empty words. ambitious targets have been set by the Environmental Agenda, including a 70% reduction in emissions from domestic transport by 2030 compared to 2010. It is, of course, a huge challenge, but we believe that this type of goal is technology-driven. We have such great technological steps to take that it is actually possible, otherwise we would not have thought that we could set such a goal. Mr President, I would like to Liberals are also clearly in favour of a green tax shift. This means that the tax on entrepreneurship and labour can be reduced and taxes on things harmful to the environment and climate increased, according to the clear principle that the polluter pays. We certainly cannot support a tax policy that taxes work and entrepreneurship so hard that future growth and employment are at risk. It will be a counterproductive policy that jeopardises future tax revenues. That is why the Liberals have a expenditure of 27 billion less than in the proposal put forward by the Government with the help of the Left Party. This means that we need to set clear priorities. On the basis of these priorities, and with a green tax shift in the back of the head, it is not always self-evident that budget lines can be directly compared and concluded that the party proposing maximum expenditure automatically benefits the climate and the environment in the best way possible. Mr President, I would like to Many of the liberal responses to the financial instruments are in the tax tables. We have a good example: in the area of expenditure we are now talking about, there is a super-environmental car premium of 700 million. It is proposed that we should be abolished. On the other hand, in our budget option there is a proposal for a tax on the vehicles with the greatest emissions. It will be a revenue to the state of 1.2 billion. That way we have steering effects, but there will be no cost and no subsidy. Rather, the polluter pays principle. We also propose a rescheduling of the travel allowance so that it becomes more regionally precise. Travel deductions should not be carried out in the same way in areas where there are good alternatives in public transport. Instead, in rural areas, where the car is an absolute necessity for everyday life, the travel allowance is strengthened. There will also be revenue for the state rather than expenditure. We have also increased the benefit value of non-environmental cars, which will be a revenue to the state of over a billion. We also have a proposal to phase out the exemptions from the taxation of fossil fuels contained in the system. This applies both to the mining industry and to the agricultural industries. Mr President, I would like to Looking at the level of appropriations we are proposing, one could say a little simplistically that we are starting from a maintained level of appropriations from that point in 2015. We have not discussed climate issues very much, but we can nevertheless note that the Liberals' draft budget contains 75 million for charging poles in Category 21 Energy. In the area of expenditure we are now discussing, we have added 25 million to the environment with a focus on the sea and water. We have made specific priorities in the form of 25 million for valuable natural forests and 50 million for restoration measures for biodiversity. We have a post regarding land remediation with the focus on freeing up land for residential construction, with risk assessment in focus. That is where we put 25 million more than what is in the government's proposal. We have also highlighted the problem of beach cleaning. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also stated in a report that national funds are needed to clean not least the Bohus coast, and we have added a pot of 50 million that is specially dedicated to this. As far as chemicals policy is concerned, we have added 10 million extra, in addition to the government budget, with a focus on children, such as market surveillance of toys, among other things. We also have a post called national climate investments. It is not in the government's budget. It is about 200 million with a focus on important measures that would otherwise not happen. This may, for example, involve biogas plants and methane gas reduction in agriculture. We think that climate adaptation is important. We don't add anything, but we don't remove anything either. It is important that we build up the level of knowledge in order to adapt society. However we turn it around and turn it around, there will be climate change. Even if we manage to keep it as close to 1.5 degrees as possible, we will still have to adapt. Finally, I can mention that we are making a national investment in bicycle infrastructure of SEK 75 million in Category 22. So we have spread it differently in our budget.
i-YMDhuT3wAZCWfSAVxuc5hQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Lars Tysklind! I have read the Liberals' budget motion with interest. There are many more good suggestions there. For example, the Liberals, like the Green Party, think that it is a good idea to use state forest as an exchange land when creating nature reserves, which Lars Tysklind did not mention. We also have it in common that we want to protect our natural forests. Of course, the Liberals think that only 25 million extra funds are needed in order to protect natural forests next year. This compares to the government's 590 million. Nevertheless, I think that the Liberals should be commended for not, unlike other alliance parties, slaughtering the entire appropriation for protection and management of a valuable nature. Liberals also see the importance of increasing the allocation for the clean-up of contaminated sites. It is a bit exciting that as an opposition party you can take liberties and change the travel allowance in one month, thus crediting 1.4 billion in revenue as early as next year. But maybe it's a freedom that you can get when you're an opposition party. I have a question about the Climate Tree, or maybe it was called something else? The government's climate action has been very successful and appreciated throughout the country. It shall apply to projects that provide the greatest benefit to climate change. Liberals now want to abolish the 700 million climate class and instead introduce some kind of liberal climate change light for 200 million a year. But I don't really see what the difference would be. What measures are supported today by the Climate Action Region would not have it with the Liberals' alternatives?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-948	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we have – I mentioned it in my speech too – spent 75 million, in another place, on spending on charging poles. We also have investments in bicycle infrastructure of 75 million in another area of expenditure. There's 150 million. We have also made our own budget. We describe it from our perspective and want to focus on measures that would otherwise not happen. I believe very much in what has been said before; it is clear that if you set up a large grant system, it is no wonder that it becomes popular. If someone has planned to take an action and can also receive a grant, it would be foolish not to apply for that grant. It is important to analyse which projects would not have happened otherwise. Of the 200 million we have mentioned methane reduction and biogas plants, linked to agriculture. There may be some flexibility there. But, as I said, it is important to really lift projects, which would otherwise not happen, above the threshold. I guess I'll just have to thank you for the praise. I guess you don't always get much praise. But in the case of forests, for example, this reasoning can be reversed. On the basis of the budget we lay down, we give high priority to measures for forests. You have to look at how we put it in terms of distribution. There was talk of public funds. You can get almost as much public money if you raise taxes as the government has done. That is not something we can accept. For we are absolutely convinced that it will damage growth and jobs in the future.
i-E5r2pZfjM7Syg2jGC9nEMg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Lars Tysklind! I'm thinking a little more about this climate thing. 582 applications have been accepted from those received. There's more people who've been searching. But of the applications granted, it is precisely the greatest climate benefit one has looked at and at which projects would not have been carried out without the 40% state aid that one gets through the Climate Act. Among other things, 17 biogas plants have received support. However, I would like to ask the question: if Lars Tysklind were to go out into the country and talk to local politicians and promote the climate of the Liberals, what projects would he say would he not get money for the 582 applications that have been granted money today?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-955	Mr President, I would like to It must be seen as an impossible thing to judge. However, if the Liberals' draft budget had been applied, we would have had 75 million in national investments in bicycle infrastructure, on which we could cooperate. And we have added 75 million to charging poles that you can apply for. And we have the 200 million. If we add it up, it will be 350 million, which is comparable to the government budget. It is then only half and so on. But that is the starting point. We are not prepared to raise taxes as the government has done. Nor do we believe that subsidies and subsidies are the only solutions. Efforts are still being made in the municipalities, in the regions and in the private sector. The role of the State should therefore not be overestimated in this context. But there are places where the government has to go in with money. And we have prioritised SEK 350 million for that. As I said before, the reasoning can be reversed; on the basis that we have 27 billion less in spending budget, it is a priority area.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-959	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have been pushing for green tax change for a long time. We have put forward several sharp proposals. Let's keep doing that. In this year's budget, we are therefore reducing taxes on labour, entrepreneurship and pensions and increasing taxes on environmentally damaging activities. It is precisely the tax exchange part that is interesting because it has such effects. In Sweden, about 15 kg of textiles are consumed per person per year. Of these, only three kilos are used for re-use. According to an analysis by the research institute IVL, Sweden is one of the worst countries in Europe when it comes to collecting textiles. We therefore propose the introduction of a raw material tax on non-recycled textiles of SEK 10 000 per tonne. This would mean increased tax revenue of about SEK 1 billion per year. At the same time, efforts to facilitate the collection and recycling of textiles need to be continued in order to collect more. Plastic breaks down very slowly in nature. We need to reduce the use of plastics in disposable products, such as plastic bags. That is why we have proposed a tax of SEK 1 per plastic bag. That would give about 1 billion to the Treasury in year one. In two years, however, the government will probably not receive as much money as the behaviour will be affected. That's the idea of this, to raise money but to influence behaviour at the same time so that you choose more environmentally friendly materials when you go shopping. The Christian Democrats support the proposal to introduce a chemical tax on certain consumer electronics and PVC materials as proposed by the Government. The background to this tax is the chemical investigation set up by the Alliance Government. We also propose a reduction in the CO2 tax and the abolition of the energy tax on diesel in mining industrial activities. This year this tax has been reduced, but we are proposed to abolish it completely. Mr President, I would like to The sorting of garbage in households is extensive, which is excellent. It's a good development. At the same time, municipal heating plants import unsorted waste from other countries for incineration. We propose to introduce a tax on the incineration of unsorted waste of SEK 100 per tonne in order to increase recycling and reduce emissions of environmentally hazardous substances and carbon dioxide. It is also in line with the fact that we want more source sorting. Many small-scale hydroelectric plants are now threatened by disproportionate intervention by the authorities. In today's report, the majority point out that last year the Riksdag announced that the government would return with proposals for a regulatory framework for permit granting processes for water activities that are flexible and adapted to small-scale activities. Unfortunately, the government has not yet addressed this problem, even though we know that small-scale hydropower owners are hit hard while we stand here talking in the debate. The Christian Democrats demand that water activities be tested on a case-by-case basis based on environmental, cultural and nutritional considerations. There must be an immediate end to the brutal application of certain county boards. The Christian Democrats also propose that the rules on state subsidies be reviewed so that it is clear that even those dam owners who have been required to take a certain measure can benefit from state aid. We want to announce this to the government. Those who have already been affected should be compensated retroactively. There is no doubt that the hikes of the fish need to be facilitated. This applies, in particular, to the eel that is strongly threatened. Here we believe that the construction of bypasses should primarily be tested rather than a total removal of dams that the county administrative boards demand with the good memory of the government. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' vision is that the Swedish vehicle fleet will be fossil independent by 2030. We therefore propose continued support for charging poles. The major obstacle today is the uncertainty that one will be able to charge one's car. We allocate SEK 125 million per year during the period 2017 – 2020 to support the roll-out of charging infrastructure, but not in this area of expenditure but under category 21. We also propose the introduction of a so-called bonus – malus system for the passenger car sector. Clear financial incentives are needed both to get the dirtiest cars off the road and to bring the future of vehicle operation technologies. That's why we believe in a bonus – Malus system. With regard to the regular monitoring of individual sewers by municipalities, there is a need for enhanced incentives. The Christian Democrats suggest that in cases where breaches of the environmental code are detected in connection with the control of an individual drain, the penalty imposed on the property owner should apply to the municipality in question. Today, it falls to the state, while the municipalities have control responsibilities. It is a problem that the facility law's ability to co-operate legally clashes with the Water Service Act's requirement that it should always be a municipal responsibility for water and sewage in larger contexts. It should be possible to allow property owners to use water and sewers through cooperation. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by referring to our special opinion in favour of the Christian Democrats' draft budget which we have tabled.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-973	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are, of course, the party that wants to reduce this budget most of all parties. You want to cut nearly 3 billion, which is 35% of the entire budget. Some appropriations are completely lost, including the appropriation for adaptation to climate change, which I find very strange these days. This applies not least to floods in Hallsberg and Kristinehamn, for example, and to what one might need to think about in the future in order to reduce such damage. The Christian Democrats, among other things, want to cut off 590 million on protection of a valuable nature. We have talked before about why this money is needed. The government has increased the funding to achieve the goals decided by the Riksdag during the time of the alliance government. The expansion of Tiveden National Park is now planned, for example, and it is located in Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell's constituency. I would like to hear what Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell thinks about it, if he thinks it is well spent money to expand the national park or if it is a better idea to harvest the forest. I am also interested in hearing what other valuable forests the Christian Democrats do not think are worth protecting for future generations.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-979	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stina Bergström, for the question! It was about how we prioritise. We have a completely different budget than you have. We have far less money to move with, because we have made other priorities. We believe that it is important to invest in the elements that create growth. That is why we are making a tax shift for the environment, for entrepreneurship and for work. That's why it looks different. With regard to the investments that we are making, it is very true that we have a lower framework than you have. It is partly possible to explain that we are using other areas of expenditure. This applies, for example, to charging poles located under Category 21. We have also proposed a bonus – the Malus system. This means that we do not invest in the environmental car premium. Nor have we borrowed money to meet the budget as you have done. You've borrowed 11 billion, but we haven't. This, of course, is also a matter of credibility for the future. We don't believe that you should borrow for your bets. We think that you should work long-term to get a functioning society with a working revenue page. That's what creates the engine in society.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-983	Mr President, I would like to There was a lot of talk, but only a little answer to my question. I'd still like to dwell on Tiveden's National Park. That was the initiative I was talking about and the expansion of the national park that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is planning. I think this with Tiveden is interesting. Early this spring, Lars Tysklind and I arranged a seminar here in the Riksdag on decent forestry. Some politicians and officials from Laxå Municipality got wind of this and then came up here. They had heard that Sveaskog's forest manager was going to attend the seminar. What they were worried about were the plans that Sveaskog had to harvest their shifts around the national park and create the greenery there. It was recognised that this would harm the tourism industry, business and the housing environment. Tiveden National Park is very important for Laxå municipality. Many politicians and others were involved in this, and it was a good solution. Sveaskog announced that it was not going to go bare-cutting but instead to do a form of continuity forestry. I would like to come back to my question: what do Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell and the Christian Democrats think about such initiatives? Do we not need to protect these forests and have another forestry? Do we not need to invest in the green jobs in rural areas that protect and manage valuable nature?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-986	Mr President, I would like to As Lars Tysklind pointed out, there is a great deal of focus on appropriations, which may be for obvious reasons when we talk about areas of expenditure. It is about how much money is distributed and how much goes to different things. Instead, when we sit in follow-up groups, we talk a lot about results. That's what's really important, isn't how much money we cut out. The National Park of Tiveden is of course important, not only for Laxå municipality but for the entire county and for Västra Götaland, which it has previously belonged to. This and other areas that lie next door, I think, of course, are important. We know that the County Administrative Board has been a bit brutal when it comes to nearby watercourses. Changes have been made to them, including in the form of salmon stairways, due to dams. We have had a special attraction in committee for key biotopes. They complicate things, and in some cases they make natural and important logging impossible. What is now mentioned is that you do not fell straight across but save the forest. It will be a gentle management of the forest. That's what I can tell you. Of course, I think this is important.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-990	Mr President, I would like to As Stina from the Green Party said, the Christian Democrats are the party that wants to cut down most of all bourgeois parties in this area of expenditure. Perhaps that is why Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell chooses to talk about what the Christian Democrats are doing in other toxic areas and not in the environment and climate area. If we look at this area of expenditure, we see that, with the Christian Democrats' policy, there will be less protection of a valuable nature and less money for our important responsible authorities to ensure that environmental policy is actually implemented. There will be no or very few local climate investments, which will mean fewer charging poles for electric cars. There will be no cycle paths, no extended biogas, no expanded district heating and so on. Lars-Lars-Axel! When I have met people in developing countries – those who are affected by our emissions here and now – they usually send a clear message: Take responsibility for your emissions! You have to go ahead and change. That is how we have been thinking about this budget. We will invest here in Sweden to take responsibility for our historical emissions. When I think about your party name, the Christian Democrats, I imagine that you are probably marked by a Christian foundation of values – whatever it may be. I thought that one should care for creation and take responsibility for the life one lives here and now. I would therefore like to ask Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell if he thinks that you care for creation and take responsibility when you cut more than SEK 3 billion in this important area.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-995	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm talks about caring for and protecting creation. Yes, I think our budget is a budget for doing this. We have a principle that we should not destroy or consume, but rather manage the resources of the earth. We shall continue to do this. What Jens Holm is trying to get it to is that we are deducting large amounts. But what is his starting point? Yes, the budget submitted by the Social Democrats and the Green Party with the support of the Left Party has been put forward. It is from this budget that we are presenting a budget with lower expenditure than they do. So that's right. On the other hand, in the case of charging poles, for example, these are in another area of expenditure. For us, it is about seeing the budget as a whole. Of course, Jens Holm is right if you just start from this area of expenditure. We have a completely different framework and are therefore lower than you in many areas. But as I said before, it's also about focusing on the results, not just on how much money we spend.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-997	Mr President, I would like to If we are talking about caring for and protecting, I am thinking, for example, of cleaning up environmentally damaged areas. Does this not mean to care for and protect the soil that we all share, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell? We spend quite a lot of money there, while the Christian Democrats want to reduce as much as SEK 200 million on environmental clean-up. Is this money available under any other budget line? I have not found them when I have looked at the 27 different areas of expenditure. If we are to look after and protect, I am thinking of measures of a valuable nature, which can be found under 1:3 in the area of expenditure. We will ensure that our protected areas really continue to be protected and well managed. I see here that the Christian Democrats are cutting SEK 350 million. This is about a third in this important area, which should well be cared for and protected. Is this somewhere else in the budget report? At least I haven't found it. Preserving and protecting can mean protecting valuable nature by, for example, creating more nature reserves. We allocate just over SEK 1 billion, while you almost halve this amount and reduce it by nearly SEK 600 million. I must once again ask whether this really is to care for and protect creation. I don't think so. I think it looks like you are unilaterally lowering taxes, and very much for large companies and already wealthy people. Then you fund this by cutting down by SEK 3 billion on the environment and climate. Is this responsible policy, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1002	Mr President, I would like to This matter of tax exchange is interesting. We really want to switch, while the government doesn't change taxes. While it does take environmental measures, it does not reduce taxes on work, pensions or entrepreneurship. This is an important point to make. If you are serious about tax exchange, you must also implement it. I got a question about protected nature. There are many areas where various county boards in the country have reasonable control of how it looks. When asked if they should not do anything about one or the other, they answer that they must start with what is most urgent. An emergency area applies to the Swedish coasts. We are spending money on this because there are potential environmental threats and many pre-listed ships at the bottom of the sea. We invest SEK 15 million extra to be able to access this and clean up the ships. Often you don't know who owns them. So we are spending this money on this. It is good that the government has also talked about assigning money here because the Maritime and Water Authority has said that it wants to look at this and carry out a clean-up. Individual movements have also addressed this issue. This is how we will continue because all counties have areas that are somehow contaminated. You have to start where the risk is greatest. This is therefore an area that continues to be important to work with.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1007	Mr President, I would like to The government, which consists of social democrats and environmentalists and has the support of the Left Party, has decided to deliver the measures, investments and instruments needed to cope with the transition to sustainability. It is a sustainable construction of society according to the Swedish model. It is not least obvious in the area of the environment budget, Category 20, that we are debating here today. Here the government strengthens the budget by 73 percent compared with the previous bourgeois government's budget. It's a historic reinforcement. And it is no coincidence that the government has chosen to prioritise measures for the climate, for the marine environment, for biodiversity and for a non-toxic environment. These are areas where action is particularly important and which affect several of our 16 environmental objectives. Sometimes in the debate you can think that this is a competition for who spends the most money. I would like to emphasise once again that this is not about who spends the most money. We belong to a government that believes that investment in the form of money is needed to make a good transition to sustainability. Above all, however, we have environmental permits that need to be improved. Ten years ago, Sweden passed 2 out of 16 environmental quality targets. These are the same two objectives that we are still achieving today. This has led this government to realise that we need to speed up and reshape the policy in order to meet more of the environmental objectives that we have committed ourselves to. Therefore, the Government has proposed new investments in climate change, fossil-free travel and renewable energy totalling 12.9 billion for the period 2017-2020. It is a historic initiative that we are proud of and that will show the outside world that fine words can also lead to action. This is a conclusion that we have drawn; if Sweden is to meet its own climate target by 2020, we know that the measures that were in place until 2015 are not really enough all the way, but would result in a lack of 4 million tonnes. We need to do more at home to make it through that gap. This is why this government is investing in active climate work at home and internationally, because we are able to do both. The local climate investment investment that the government has introduced, the Climate Tree, has been a success. Until 6 December 2016, the Climate Centre has granted 582 applications, which together are expected to produce annual emission reductions of about 400 000 tonnes of greenhouse gases. That is the equivalent of more than 50,000 petrol cars driving once around the world. These are climate investments dealing with charging stations, fossil-free public transport solutions, bioenergy production and much more. We now propose that this aid be increased from SEK 600 million to SEK 700 million annually and extended to 2020. The government reinforces efforts on biodiversity by 1.1 billion compared to the bourgeois years. This means that valuable nature can be purchased for more protection, that more natural forests can be protected and that more marine reserves can be created. Among other things, the fire area in Västmanland has been bought in and made to the nature reserve Hälleskogsbrännan. The government will also propose to Parliament that the national parks of Tiveden and Björnlanden be expanded. As there are more nature reserves, the appropriation for care must be kept up. The bourgeois government left the grant unchanged, which in practice means less care. Instead, the Government has increased the grant for management of valuable nature by SEK 240 million from 2016. This summer we have already been able to see how jobs have been created around the country to take care of, for example, neglected maintenance of trail systems in the mountains, nature conservation in reserves, information and more bridges on popular hiking trails. More than 1,000 jobs were created in 2015 in this area alone. The appropriation for the protection of marine areas was increased by SEK 55 million from this year's budget. We now propose to strengthen the grant with an additional SEK 40 million for 2017 and SEK 30 million for 2018. Environmental monitoring of the sea will also increase. The work of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate for a non-toxic everyday life is further strengthened. We propose additional resources to meet the Authority's mission to implement the Action Plan for a non-toxic everyday life. The work focuses on measures to protect the health of children and young people. More, new and tougher rules and taxes are planned. A Centre for the substitution of hazardous substances in chemical products is being discussed and planned. Mr President, I would like to The Government has a number of measures to meet the 16 environmental objectives, to improve the state of the environment and to switch to a more sustainable construction of society. I'm proud of this. This is solidarity and justice that bears equality and freedom. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1019	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Matilda Ernkrans for her speech. There she says that fine words can lead to action, and that was exactly what happened during the alliance years when we were able to show that it is actually possible to combine growth with reduced emissions not only in words but also in reality. Then I think that the Matilda Ernkrans and the Social Democrats, yes, the government side at all, talk very much about this being an historic reinforcement. This is exactly what Matilda Ernkrans herself says she does not, that is to focus on how much money you spend rather than on what results you want to achieve. The problem remains, namely that if you are evicting tax increases of over 40 billion for ordinary people, who are hitting jobs and growth directly, it goes without saying that you are getting a lot more money to spend. In the next step, it will hit hard on jobs and growth and also on the environment. Now the government wants to strike another couple of tax increases directed directly at the countryside. In both cases, I'm thinking about the mileage tax and the flight tax. The airline tax was mentioned earlier, and it has very limited climate benefits. International efforts are 150 times more cost-effective, i.e. they provide 150 times greater climate benefits than a flight tax. If it is so important and urgent to reduce climate emissions, why do the government parties devote themselves to this kind of expensive and inefficient symbolism policy, such as the airline tax and the Climate Klivet, which Matilda Ernkrans highlights as an example, instead of putting forward proposals that solve our real challenges in Sweden?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1024	Mr President, I would like to It may be appropriate to remind those who listen and follow the debate that it is important to manage to increase growth while at the same time reducing our domestic emissions. It was not the bourgeois alliance government that invented that phenomenon. Sweden was able to do that already during the government of Social Democrat Göran Persson. What we can note, however, is that when the bourgeois government took office in 2006, Sweden passed two of the 16 environmental objectives. It was the same two that were passed after eight years of government. We can also note that the 2015 reconciliation of climate policy ordered by the previous government, if there were enough measures to achieve the domestic climate target by 2020, shows that the measures in place are not sufficient to achieve the target. We must be able to change our society so that we do not exceed 28.8 million tonnes by 2020. There is therefore a lack of 4 million tonnes to meet the target of climate policy at home to reduce our emissions. The current government has chosen to combine economic instruments with investments to reduce our climate emissions and hopefully meet a number of our environmental objectives. Against that is the policy of the Moderates.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1028	Mr President, I would like to The problem with the rhetoric, Matilda Ernkrans, is that emissions are now increasing. Reality speaks against what Matilda Ernkrans says. For 2016, climate emissions increase after a long period of reduction. It remains a problem, and it is a betrayal of the environment – to put it plainly – when one chooses to engage in costly measures that provide little benefit to the climate. It's a betrayal of the environment. The answer that the government must give is why you should choose to spend a lot of money doing a little when you can choose to do the opposite, spend a little less money but deliver the more results. Matilda Ernkra ns mentioned in her speech that the Klimat klivet leads to emission reductions equivalent to 50,000 petrol cars. The proposals we have put forward are 50 times more cost-effective. They would provide an equivalent emission reduction equivalent to 2 1⁄2 million petrol cars. It's got to be better, isn't it, Matilda Ernkrans? No one said we shouldn't do anything at home. If Matilda Ernkrans listened when I gave my opening speech, I mentioned that it is the transport sector that is the major challenge in Sweden. There we have moderate proposals on how to change the vehicle tax and how to get more biofuels into the fuel. They are the single most important measures to reduce emissions at home.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1033	Mr President, I would like to Spending a little that will produce a lot of results doesn't really have Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler coverage for considering that we have independent authorities who follow up how we in Sweden meet our commitments regarding our 16 environmental quality goals where the climate target is one of them. Two goals were achieved when the bourgeois government took office. It was a safe radiation environment and protective ozone layer. It was the same two goals that the bourgeois government passed after eight years in power. To spend little and give a lot of results has Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler not really coverage for. If you have followed the emission statistics, you know that it is not uncommon that it fluctuates a little different years. There were years during Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's reign that emissions also increased. This in itself means that we should agree to try a little more to reduce our emissions – not less, as the Moderates do in their option. This government has come to this conclusion, and that is why it is making a great effort to cope with climate and environmental policy. It is not only about the climate target but also about other environmental objectives. It would be appropriate for the Moderates to consider how to develop their policies. Nevertheless, we agree that Sweden needs a long-term ambitious climate policy. In any case, our parties agreed on this in the Environmental Objectives Committee.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1038	Mr President, I would like to It must be noted that Matilda Ernkrans and I certainly agree very much on the objectives. We fully support what we came up with in the Environmental Objectives Committee regarding the climate targets. That is, of course, the starting point. The fact remains that during the eight years of the alliance government, 2006– 2014, emissions of climate gases decreased by 19 per cent. It was a trend that stopped in 2015. During the same time, the share of renewable energy increased to 8 per cent, and the number of environmental cars increased. Now Matilda Ernkrans says that two environmental objectives are met. Has Matilda Ernkrans philosophized how many goals will be met after this term of office? We can think about that question further. Then there was the question of cost-effectiveness. Large parts of the budget are about forests. We Liberals, too, are investing a lot and giving high priority to measures for forests. We are spending 700 million on measures for valuable nature and 740 million on protection of a valuable nature. We think this is an important area. At the same time, it is clear that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency are looking at the cost-effectiveness of the national strategy to protect forests. The government analyses how the replacement land system can be developed. It is important to look at the results that come out instead of just talking about the level of appropriations.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1042	Mr President, I would like to The government takes seriously the responsibility for taking major steps to meet environmental objectives. In order to meet some of the environmental objectives, we need to use our forest with greater environmental considerations than today, although Swedish forestry and the Swedish forest industry make great efforts. I am the first to emphasise that. But we need to do a little more in the use of the forest, and we also need to protect a little more forest than before to meet some of the environmental objectives. This is also about taking responsibility for some kind of continuity in what was agreed between a former bourgeois government and a parliament during the last parliamentary term, namely that we should, for example, resolve our commitments with regard to the Nagoya Protocol and the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Parliament even agreed that we should not be content with protecting only 17% under the Convention on Biological Diversity, but that we should have higher ambitions than that and protect 20%. If we are to take this seriously, we must make it possible to get such work done around our country. That's what part of this money is about. I think that is honest and responsible. Otherwise, we come up with demands from the national level which we then do not support by giving the resources to cope with such a change.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1045	Mr President, I would like to I pointed out that we from the Liberals also think that this is an important issue. But the question was that there is a risk of getting stuck in the current system and raising the cost level until one reaches a level when it is no longer effective. We in the Liberals think that these two tasks are good as long as we stick to the basic principle that we have two equal goals between production and the environment in terms of forestry. Does Matilda Ernkrans not see that it is not just about having high funding, but about what method is used to protect the forest? As Matilda Ernkrans says, great efforts are being made, and here I can see that there are great opportunities for dialogue. It can be pointed out that dialogue with forestry and forest owners may not have been the best in all situations. I can also have some criticism of the research that has been carried out on the forest. One has been stuck in a farming method, and so the research has been about how to develop it, and the knowledge about other farming methods has not developed. The question remains: we are getting stuck in the discussion about the grant, but Matilda Ernkrans started by saying that we would not get caught up in that discussion. I would therefore like to hear some more comments on how to develop protection in line with forestry and not increase costs in the way that is done in this budget.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1050	Mr President, I would like to I am the first to emphasise that we should take care of the resource that we have in the forest. Rightly used, the forest is part of our green gold. It is also a resource that is used by many, not only by foresters and forest industries, but also by outdoor activities, nature tourism and so on. The fact that we are able to manage our forests properly and in a good dialogue with those concerned, I am the first to emphasise the importance of this. I would also like to say that I think that the responsible minister in this area, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, has had that allocation in the work in and around the national forestry programme. It has been a very open and inclusive process in which many have been heard, and that work continues. I think that's important. These are challenges that we face where we have a lot to win. We have a need to cultivate and care for our forest in a good way, because we need its products. We also have a need to use and care for the forest because we need its services to cope with the climate commitments and other things that we have and not least to preserve biodiversity. Sometimes this is a conflict of interests; we are not going to make a fool out of it. Sometimes you just can't make everyone happy. I belong to a party and a government that says we're going to get through both. We will cope with forest industry and forestry and continue to develop new and exciting products, and we will meet our environmental goals on living forests, biodiversity and climate targets. It places high demands on us. I believe, unlike all bourgeois parties, that some money is needed as lubricant for us to make this work, and it delivers this government.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1055	Mr President, I would like to I listened to Matilda Ernkrans's main speech and noted the same thing Lars Tysklind did, namely the statement that we should not get caught up in discussing appropriations. However, there was much about it in the speech. I think it is interesting to have a reflection. We were several representatives of different parties who talked about green tax exchange for jobs, the environment, entrepreneurship, pensions and so on, but Matilda did not use the term tax exchange. I wonder if it's an expression of something special. In the past, when you have talked about tax shifting, there has been a lot about increasing the tax – not changing but increasing the tax on labour and, of course, investing in the environment. You're raising taxes on labor instead of cutting it down. It's not going right, I mean, because we know it's about hours worked. If we lose them, we're in a bad position to cope with welfare. My question is: why do you not like tax shifting?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1059	Mr President, I would like to I think I'll have to try and explain again. I've tried to do it in some lines and in my main speech. There are other parties in this House and in this debate, preferably parties themselves, who are making major cuts to the environmental budget – and in the wake of that, people will be dismissed who today have the opportunity to work with active environmental work in Sweden – who have tried to claim that the government that I represent is only spending money for the sake of money laundering. I have tried on several occasions to describe that we are not spending money just for the sake of money laundering in a contest about who is betting the most money, but we are actually putting in this money because we see that it is needed because we have problems in our environment. People worry about pollution every day. Year after year in the SOM surveys carried out at the University of Gothenburg, this is one of the things that is in the top three of what you worry about – environmental degradation and the impact of climate change. We have environmental quality objectives that we cannot achieve. We reach the same two goals we scored ten years ago. It takes that you actually do something new and take a step to try to achieve these goals. This government has chosen to work with economic instruments and taxes, but we also believe that it requires investment in the form of our common money in the environmental budget. I'm very proud of that.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1062	Mr President, I would like to Göran Persson used the concept: He who is in debt is not free. Now you have borrowed EUR 11 billion to manage your budget and, moreover, you have increased the tax on labour considerably. I'm saying it's growth-retardant. Another thing is when you suddenly impose a penalty tax on solar panels and then partially reverse. What do you think?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1064	Mr President, I would like to It is the environmental budget and Category 20 that we are discussing, but we can also discuss concerns about Swedish public finances. I can remind you, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, that the government that was previously in power and where your party was first part of it reduced taxes by up to 140 – 160 billion. Money was withheld that could otherwise have been spent on our welfare or, for example, the environmental budget. What you left behind was not an economy in balance, but you left behind a deficit of 60 billion. This deficit has been eliminated by this government, and we now have a balance and are moving towards surpluses. The IMF, which is a fairly reputable organisation, has reviewed Swedish economic policy and thinks that fiscal policy is well balanced. That's a pretty good grade for Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Perhaps we can leave this a bit to the point and think a little bit about what is Category 20. The Christian Democrats are the party among the bourgeois parties who think that this area is the least important. You're taking almost 3 billion from the environmental budget. It makes a bit of a rhyme with local attempts to pretend that you have a commitment in and around Tiveden's national park, for example, when at national level you do not give them the opportunity to expand Tiveden's national park and meet the people. This applies, in particular, to small businesses producing new jobs in and around Tiveden National Park. If the Christian Democrats do their homework, I will continue to argue that per money is needed for the area.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1070	Mr President, I would like to We are today debating how much money in the state budget will be spent on environmental and nature conservation in the coming years, i.e. reducing climate emissions in Sweden, preventing the extinction of animals and plants, protecting our valuable natural areas and removing dangerous substances from our and our children's everyday lives. The fact that there is a clear difference between the budget endorsed by the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party and the various proposals of the bourgeois parties has already become clear in the debate. The bourgeois want to remove more than one in four crowns from the budget for the expenditure area of General Environment and Nature Conservation. Mr President, I would like to A year ago we also stood here and debated the environmental budget, just a few days after the club team fell on the climate summit in Paris. It was a milestone for the climate and the world. Much has also happened since then. In Sweden, we who worked in the Environmental Objectives Committee have managed to agree to propose a climate law and a climate policy council. This is something the Green Party has been running for a long time. We also agreed on targets and interim targets for emissions reductions and a sectoral target for the transport sector. It is the sector that is most difficult to control. By 2030, traffic emissions should have decreased by at least 70 percent, we thought. But, Mr President, it is not enough to set goals and make laws. If we are to succeed in handing over a sustainable world to our children, the workshop is required. Let us therefore look into the government's green environment workshop and look at some things that have been carried out so far in the area of the budget we are now debating. An important initiative that the government has put in place to reduce emissions is the so-called K Limatklivet. So far, 582 different local measures have received state aid totalling SEK 1 billion. The total investment cost is 2.5 billion and the annual estimated reduction in greenhouse gases is 442 000 tonnes per year. This represents 40 per cent of the emissions from heating in all Swedish homes and premises. That makes me very proud as an environmentalist. Climate change leads to many green projects growing around the country. Charging poles are set up, manure and food waste become biogas in new plants, the nitrous oxide in our hospitals is taken care of, to name but a few examples. It is strange that all bourgeois parties want to eliminate this initiative. Even urban agreements, which is once again something the Green Party has been running for a long time, would disappear with a citizens' budget. Even these agreements – which are about promoting sustainable urban environments by creating the conditions for more public transport and more construction – have enabled many municipalities to put in a higher gear to reduce traffic emissions. In Karlst ad it is planned for a BRT line, a kind of bus-tram line, through the city using the urban environment agreements. In Växjö, the old travel centre will be rebuilt. Just to mention two examples that I myself have been studying on the spot. But, Mr President, in the government's workshop there are not only climate measures. There are also several other important environmental initiatives. If, for example, we are to achieve the objectives of protection of a valuable nature adopted by the Riksdag, the increase in appropriations by the Government is absolutely necessary. Next year, the government proposes that over 1.3 billion of you be used to compensate landowners to protect our last old forests and other valuable natural areas. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the number of nature reserves decided will be doubled, from just over 130 to around 300 nature reserves per year, as a result of the government's doubling of funds to the protection of valuable nature. This initiative is supported by a large majority of the Swedish people. Eight out of ten Swedes fully agree that it is important to protect nature, according to a survey presented by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency last autumn. This also means that more landowners will receive the compensation they have been waiting for for for more years under the moderate-led government. But this appropriation, too, is intended by the bourgeois parties to reduce sharply. The Centers and the Swedish Democrats are the worst in that league with reductions of 840 and 868 million respectively. I may find it a little strange that parties who outwardly tend to be very loud about the fact that forest owners do not receive compensation for their environmental work are those who want to cut most of the funding. The same is being done with the government's commitment to the management of a valuable nature. In addition to important conservation efforts, investment in hiking trails and in other ways making nature accessible, this also leads to many green jobs in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude with another government priority, chemicals. The government's work on a non-toxic everyday life deserves and will have its very own debate in this House. I would now just like to stress here the importance of the government's efforts to clean up contaminated areas. We must work both to prevent the release of dangerous substances and to remove dangerous substances that have ended up in soil and water. The government's increase in funding for the clean-up of contaminated areas is important in order to avoid the ticking environmental bombs in our old sawmills, railway yards, gas stations, etcetera, bursting. To conclude, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1085	Mr President, I would like to When I have followed the reports on the state of the environment and climate this autumn, I am struck by the seriousness of the situation. It is reports that the average temperature for several days this autumn has been more than 20 degrees warmer than normal in the Arctic. The other day there was a report on the refugee situation in African countries, which states that more than a million refugees in African countries are refugees for environmental and climate reasons. In preparation for the UN Environment Summit in Marrakech, the UN agency Unep published the report The Emissions Gap Report, which concluded that the commitments of the world's countries will not be sufficient to achieve the Paris agreement's greenhouse gas reduction targets. I am thinking as legislator in this House: Can we in Sweden do something? Of course we can do that. We should do more than we do today. The state budget is probably our most important tool for achieving concrete changes in our society. That is why we in the Left Party think it is important to negotiate with the government and also support the adoption of the budget for the Swedish state. We are now debating Category 20, where the investments in the environment and climate area are located. I was amused to compare the draft state budget for Category 20 for 2017 with the state budget for 2014, which was the last presented by the bourgeois government. Then they had another budget for which they gained a majority, but the 2014 budget was the bourgeois government's own state budget. When you compare these two budgets and you know exactly how to use the environment and climate budget, you can see that the difference is striking. The difference in ambition is striking. In the budget that we in the Left Party support, the effort on the environment and climate is more than 70 per cent higher than in the budget during the bourgeois period with the support of the Swedish Democrats. It is interesting to study the movements of the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats for the adoption of the state budget. I have looked specifically at Category 20, and I would like to say that we have five shades of brown here. These are five shades of severe cuts in the important area of the environment and climate. Mostly, Kristdemok rats want to cut down, with almost SEK 3 billion in this area. Then there are the Liberals, who want to cut by SEK 2.3 billion. The Swedish Democrats, the Center and the Moderates want to cut by just over SEK 2 billion. I do not think it is serious, ladies and gentlemen, to talk, on the one hand, about the importance of raising the Swedish climate targets, to do more, to take responsibility for our emissions and to change our society, on the other hand, to make these major reductions in this important area. With these reductions, there would be fewer charging stations for electric cars, less biogas, less extension of district heat for reduced emissions, no cycle paths, no climate information for our citizens and so on. These efforts are in fact contained in what the budget calls climate change. Climate change is, in short, about local and regional investment in reducing emissions. Climate change has so far been hugely popular, and so far almost 600 local projects have been granted. I would also like to say – quite contrary to what bourgeois debaters have said in the past here – that these are cost-effective investments. If you compare with the CO2 tax, which we all think is an important tax, we can see that every dollar you invest in the Climate Tree is about double as effective. This reduces emissions twice as much as the CO2 tax does. These are two different instruments, and of course we both need them. The report allocates more money to our environmental experts, not least the Environmental Protection Agency. We have more money for climate adaptation, we make a special investment in electric buses and we have more money for land removal for environmentally damaged land. We have more money to protect valuable nature and to create more nature reserves. We have more money to take care of the nature reserves we have in a responsible way. In almost all these areas, bourgeois parties and SD have only one thing to say: reductions. Thankfully, their budgetary options will not go through, but it will be the Red Green Government with the support of the Left Party. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would just like to say a few words about the report of the monitoring and evaluation team attached to the report. During the year, I chaired the Monitoring and Evaluation Group of the Environment and Agriculture Committee. We have evaluated the government's performance report for the past year; we have briefly looked at how the government describes the relationship between money spent and results. We note a little simplified that accounting has improved, but there is still a lot of potential for improvement. We have had evaluators Lena Sandström and rapporteur AnnaAnna-Lena Kileus to help us write the report, which is supported by a united committee. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1098	Mr President, I would like to It has become one of Jens Holm's favorite expressions to use the word You can do that; it is perhaps a way of reducing them and thinking about them. It is interesting to hear what Jens Holm mentioned here at the end of the follow-up work. When we talk about follow-up work, it is a lot about results based on invested money. Instead, when we discuss the budget, it is all about spending money. I would like to ask Jens Holm whether he also thinks that green tax exchange is unserious. Is it unserious to do as we have done in our budget and remove the super environmental car bonus and add it as an increased tax on the vehicles that emit the most? It's part of what's called an unserious withdrawal. It is clear that 700 million will disappear, but at the same time the steering power remains. Is that unserious? Is it unserious that we reschedule the travel allowance? Is it unserious that in our draft budget we should remove certain exemptions for fossil fuel subsidies? These are instruments in the tax tables. It will be easy for us to end up in expenditure instead of revenue. The important thing is that we have the steering effects, which, of course, steers towards the same goal, right?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1102	Mr President, I would like to I think tax exchange is a good idea. But then we should remember that what the bourgeois parties did during their eight years in power was to do only one thing: they reduced taxes, mainly for high-income earners, by about SEK 140 billion. However, taxes on what was released were not increased accordingly. The result was completely unfunded tax cuts, a budget deficit of over SEK 60 billion, rising unemployment, increasing inequality and so on. In principle, however, Lars Tysklind, I think that tax exchange is a good idea. We also want to replace the super-environmental car premium with a so-called bonus – malus system. I think it is good that we agree on that. But it is not really responsible to remove the 700 million that is allocated to it from 1 January 2017, i.e. in just a few weeks' time. It creates great uncertainty for anyone who wants to buy a new environmental car, simply because the bonus – the malus system is not yet in place. Then we cannot have several years without a control system, but in principle we agree. The travel allowance really needs to be redistributed. I think the Liberals are creative, because from January 1st you have made a travel deduction where we save more than SEK 1 billion already 2017! But I appreciate the creativity. We would like to do something similar, but it takes a little longer. Support for fossil fuels should really be phased out, so where I think Lars Tysklind is absolutely right. When you make these efforts, you should have a lot of money left over. Then you should not have to make cuts of SEK 2.3 billion, as you do in this area of expenditure. Why are you cutting down so much on the environment, Lars Tysklind?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1106	Mr President, I would like to I don't think we should have that discussion again. We discussed this last week, and we can of course discuss it again later. Liberals and other alliance parties are clear about this. However, I do not think this is serious. If you now think that green tax exchange is a good idea, you should be able to change taxes. We are not the ones who will accept that taxes on labour and entrepreneurship should be increased in order to risk having an impact on growth and employment. It is precisely for this reason that the Liberals have almost 20 billion less taxes on labour and a space for spending of 27 billion less. This is because we want a long-term budget that lasts over time so that we get growth that secures future investments. It is clear that it is possible to repel the fact that proposals are being put forward. However, the important thing about a tax proposal is that it stays together, that expenditure and revenue go together and are in balance. Our draft budget is consistent, so I do not think there is any need to worry about that. Creatively or not – a tax increase on vehicles with large emissions is not a very complicated story to implement. If we had worked long-term on our draft budget, I think we could have implemented it quite quickly.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1111	Mr President, I would like to The relevant question to ask then, Lars Tysklind, is well why you did nothing during the eight years you were in power. You reduced taxes on banks, large corporations and high income earners, but you did not raise taxes on those who release. It is easy to come now and talk about a green tax shift. In principle, I think it is a good idea, but one cannot do one without doing the other. Of course, you have to do both. For example, we want a flight tax. We think it is perfectly reasonable that it should cost more to release when flying. We also think it is perfectly reasonable to have a kilometre tax on lorries. These are issues where it would have been good to have the wholehearted support of a party that says it wants to embrace the principle that it should cost more to release. We have not yet seen such wholehearted support from the Liberals, but it may come. Mr President, I would like to In this report we are talking about the targeted measures for more nature reserves and to expand more charging poles, about special investments on electric buses, about special efforts to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency so that it can do a better job, about more money for biogas, about better management of our nature reserves and such things. As far as all these efforts are concerned, we cannot, unfortunately, count on the support of the Liberals, but there are only negative signs of the liberal budgetary movement. I'm sorry about that.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1117	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish municipalities and county councils are responsible for the operation and development of many tasks, including what we traditionally describe as welfare. These are activities that are close to the inhabitants of their daily lives and that can have a very large and direct impact on people's lives. We have municipal self-government which means that many of the decisions relating to these activities are taken locally. This means that from a central point of view we need to ensure that municipalities and county councils have the best conditions for fulfilling their tasks. Most of the municipalities finance their activities with the municipal tax, over which they themselves decide. In addition, general and targeted state grants are added. The remaining 15% is financed through fees, sales of businesses, rents and the like. But there we have partly interfered with and limit, for example with decisions on maximum tariffs. Municipalities are constantly facing challenges. Yearly litters differ in size quite a lot, and migration and emigration take place. It affects preschools and schools. An ageing population needs more care and health care. In all of this, there is a certain amount of foresight – the one born today will appear in a few years' time in childcare. The older you are, the more likely you will need help from home care and medical care. The difference in recent years is the large amount of immigration that now and in the future is largely in the hands of the municipalities. In the longer term, we have even greater challenges due to demographic developments, with a relatively smaller proportion of the population to support more and more people. We must not lose sight of this perspective, especially as this challenge will be even greater if we do not succeed in integrating the new arrivals. The development of recent years is already reflected in relatively large cost increases in municipalities. It is true that they have been compensated by increased tax revenues – thanks to the policy of the Alliance and also to the economic cycle, we currently have good tax revenues at all levels. However, forecasts indicate that expenditure in the coming years will increase at a higher rate than revenue. With that in mind, it is now that we must act. If the municipalities and county councils do not get it really tough already in the short term but above all from the mid-2020s. It does not really come as a surprise; in principle, all the reports and long-term investigations have long shown. That is why the government's actions are worrying. Costs that the state is responsible for are passed on to the municipalities. Last week in Today's Society, for example, we could read about how municipalities get involved with home care and housing costs when Försäkringskassan says no to personal assistance in order to meet the government's savings requirements. Another example is that the Migration Agency does not pay compensation to municipalities. This is an extra big problem in Skåne, where municipalities like Örkelljunga are forced to borrow money to spend the approximately SEK 60 million that the Migration Agency has not paid – and it is therefore only for Örkelljunga. The municipalities already have large investment needs and increased pension costs, so these extra costs are certainly not something for which the state should escape responsibility. A third and a fourth example is that the government changes the conditions for municipalities in the short term by reducing the daily allowance for unaccompanied minors and the so-called Housing Act in order to arrange housing for new arrivals. According to SKL's financial report, the Housing Act does not only have consequences for municipalities through direct investment costs. There are also long-term risks with increased lending, increased risk-taking and possible effects on municipalities' financial assistance. Soon we will certainly hear about the 10 billion that the government is investing in the municipalities. However, the odd thing is what these 10 billion should be enough for. Firstly, one should be aware that the 10 billion in total covers the erosion of state subsidies in recent years, which are not automatically listed. Only 3 billion are entering the equalisation system. The other 7 billion goes to cover the costs of the refugee situation. But the government expects the money to also be used to develop welfare based on local needs. It also mentions that more people should be employed and strengthened in health care, school and care. The increased employer's contributions shall be compensated. The increased sickness and LSS costs will be financed. The money will also be used to improve the working environment. Yes, it can be understood by anyone that there will not be much impact when the money will be enough for most in 290 municipalities and 20 regions and county councils respectively. We Moderates want to invest more in municipalities and in welfare than the government does. In terms of 2017 – 2020, we invest more than SEK 60 billion in municipalities and in welfare, while the Government's efforts amount to around SEK 40 billion. We generally invest in the municipalities but especially in the school. These include more teaching time, extended schooling and compulsory homework. Investing in school is important to ensure in the long term that our young people will be attractive in the labour market. We firmly believe in the work line, and all our reform proposals focus on how the jobs will be more. This contributes to better opportunities for municipalities to stand on their own feet. We Moderates have a plan for Sweden that ensures long-term Swedish welfare. We hope that, together with our alliance friends, we will be able to implement it from 2018.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1134	Mr President, I would like to I have a background in local politics. That was before I became a Member of Parliament. At that time, Anette Åkesson was in the same part of the country, also as municipal councillor and municipal politician. We have about the same picture and the same experience of what it means to sit in budget preparations and turn the tax revenue around in order to make the budget go together and be able to implement the political ambitions you have and the efforts you want to make. As the Moderates and Anette Åkesson now go up and talk about the excellence of the Moderates' budget options, it is a little strange that you choose to only count on increased spending, but not on savings and cuts. The fact is that the Moderates in their alternative to the budget the government has put on the table propose cuts of SEK 20 billion, of which SEK 4 billion are directly directed towards municipalities and county councils. Public health and psychiatry are being cut, the number of employees in care for the elderly is reduced, the work environment is deteriorating in welfare and wants to stop resources for municipalities that build housing for all the young people who need to leave home. I do not believe that there are very many municipal councillors around our country who agree that cuts of billions would strengthen their ability to maintain good welfare and a good school. I also live in the assurance that if Anette Åkesson had still been a municipal councillor in her municipality of residence, she would have been more concerned with a bourgeois or moderate budget in the Swedish parliament than with the one the government is now presenting. What I would like to know is: where is it reasonable to account for the expenditure but not the savings? Why are you counting in your budget only gross but not net?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1140	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is true that Niklas Karlsson and I know each other from previous assignments, but I do not share the picture he gives. As municipal councillor, I had been very pleased with a moderate budget because I had seen the benefits of the focus on the work line. I would have thought that the efforts made are good, and I would have realised that what we are not doing in the social democratic and environmental partisan budget is, for example, investing in things that are ineffective labour market policies: developing state-subsidised extra services that do not work and wanting to spend a lot of money on inefficient building aid. The fact that we are also trying to prevent with precision those measures that promote jobs and also want to reduce growth is something that I had not done. So I don't share that vision at all. In concrete terms, we also invest more money in welfare than S and MP do.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1142	Mr President, I would like to This is going to be a little strange, because the Moderates and Anette Åkesson still maintain that it is only increased expenditure that should be counted, not what it looks like in the last row. The Moderates' budget options suggest spending 33 billion on the local government sector over the period 2017-2020. In the same way, however, the government is spending EUR 40 billion on the area of expenditure we are talking about today. You're not counting the 20 billion you're pulling away from the local government sector just for next year, 2017. Only 4 billion goes directly to the local government sector. Regardless of how you choose to count and what you choose to say, it is de facto that there is a lack of SEK 4 billion net due to cuts if the Moderates' draft budget should go through in Sweden parliament. My question remains: Why is it reasonable, as a Member of Parliament, to count only expenses and not savings when you, as Mayor at home in Båstad, have been counting on both income and expenses?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1146	Mr President, I would like to I still do not share Niklas Karlsson's description. If we return to the specific SEK 4 billion that Niklas Karlsson refers to, we do have a reduced standard for new arrivals of SEK 4 billion, but we compensate it with an establishment allowance that increases from two to three years. It is therefore a cost of 4.4 billion, so net it gives a plus of 0.4 billion if these details are of interest to anyone.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1147	Mr President, I would like to What is equality? The same rights and obligations for women and men, equal pay for equal work and the same conditions for self-governing life are probably what many would answer. But of course it depends on who you ask; you may not get the same answer from a gender scientist at Södertörn as you get from average Swedish. However, I also believe that different answers are given in this House. For some, gender equality is quotas for company boards, quotas for parental insurance and equal snow clearance. The very essence of the problem formulation for those who think this is that men and women do different things to different degrees, and that is what legislation wants to change. But all the Swedes who have not studied gender theory I think have other gender equality problems in their everyday lives. Today, involuntarily, more than one hundred thousand Swedes work in the public sector: men and women who are willing and unable to work full-time. The majority of these hundred thousand part-time employees are women. For example, one third of women are currently working part-time, while among men it is only a tenth, which makes this one of our biggest gender equality problems. I think this is where the debate on gender equality should take place, because I am of the opinion that women are as competent as men and can enter stock exchange boards on their own. And let us be completely honest: Are there not greater everyday problems than that for all those who are the backbone of Swedish welfare? I am thinking, for example, of the hundreds of thousands of part-time workers who are forced to take a morning pass and an evening pass with a several hours-long hole in the middle of the day without work in order to make the private economy go together. Because that's how it is: It's not worth going home between the morning and evening sessions, so instead you sit off time in the coffee room waiting for the work to start again. It is during this time that the elderly could have been given the extra care they deserve or perhaps the opportunity for social intercourse. For a single mother who works part-time, it will be a daily struggle to make ends meet. Not only is it difficult to get through everything that is to be done with cooking, homework and laundry, but it actually also leads to lower career opportunities, lower wage development and a lower future pension. So what we are deciding here is not just something that affects people today and four years ahead. It is something that will affect the single mother who works part-time even in the autumn. If we cannot see beyond the limits of the legislative term, she will become another Swedish poor pensioner. We are the only ones who have the power to prevent it. In the end, we are all affected, because involuntary part-time unemployment leads to a general decline in welfare. Today we have a situation where there are many involuntary part-time preschool teachers who would be more than happy to go up to full-time and improve the quality of preschool. We know that the need for more hands in health care will not diminish in the future; on the contrary, forecasts point to an increasing number of older people. However, in order to raise skills and increase access to health and social care professions, the status of these professions needs to be increased. If there is an opportunity to develop and train and thus raise their salary, the profession also becomes more attractive. In 2011, the Nursing Lift was launched, which is a competence reform for employees in the care of the elderly in order to increase knowledge and understanding of the situation of the elderly. In addition to the obvious increase in knowledge that the reform brings, the aim is also to give staff more career paths by enabling them to grow and develop in their professional roles. A niche nurse with special skills is better equipped in the labour market than a less experienced nurse. Mr President, I would like to Politicians in this House have for a long time transferred responsibility for these matters to the municipalities, and with the facts in hand we can see that it has not worked. That is why, as in previous years, we are taking the initiative to solve the problem at national level in this House. The government distributes 7 billion to municipalities to cover the failed immigration policy. The Swedish Democrats choose to make a different priority. We need better working conditions in welfare, and more hands are needed to improve the quality of life for our sick and elderly. We therefore reject the government's seven billions of refugees and turn them into seven billions of welfare. More than one hundred thousand involuntary part-time workers will be able to go up to full-time. We are committed to improving the situation and working conditions of civil servants, and we are relaunching the Nursing Lift. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1160	Mr President, I would like to We see that the Swedish Democrats in their budget option for 2017 choose to reduce by over 30 billion in the municipal sector. Even if one believed in all the calculations contained in the Swedish Democrats' budget options, in particular their inflated expectations of increased tax revenues, this would mean that the municipalities in Sweden would receive more than 10 billion less in financial resources than with the proposal put forward by the government. These 10 billion are equivalent to over 20 000 nurses. This corresponds to 7 000 places of care or the cost of running one in ten schools throughout Sweden. Of these resources, 26 billion correspond to the municipal economic equalisation system, which is suddenly just being lifted out. It is resources that are allocated depending on the conditions that exist around our country, so that the welfare can be delivered and the quality should be the same regardless of where in the country people choose to live. The proposal now put forward by the Swedish Democrats is a direct blow to rural Sweden. It is a direct blow to municipalities that have worse economic conditions. It's a redistribution of enormous dimensions based on a reverse Robin Hood effect. I wonder, Dennis Dioukarev, what justice you see in this. Why is it reasonable that Hagfors and Höör should be given less opportunities to provide healthcare, care, school and childcare that are equivalent to other municipalities around our country?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1164	Mr President, I would like to It was a very dishonest and strange way of reading a budget, may I say. When you read a budget, you have to look at the whole picture. In our budget option, we will have significantly increased tax revenues due to the tax reforms that we are implementing, and we will have significantly reduced expenditure due to a responsible immigration policy. The impact of this on the big picture is that we have exactly the same financial savings as the government. This gives me two ways to interpret Niklas Karlsson's speech. Either he cannot read a budget, which I doubt, or he deliberately misinterprets and misleads the Swedish people as part of the rhetorical game of the Social Democrats. You are a tired party that lacks real solutions to real problems, and I think that will punish itself in the next elections.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1166	Mr President, I would like to Whether it's because of my lack of knowledge or because of my rhetorical ability is up to others to decide. But if we try to keep this at some kind of intellectual level, we may well begin to beat it out. The municipal economic equalisation system is based on providing conditions for achieving an equivalent level of well-being throughout the country. This means that the system is redeploying. In the final line, it may well be – even if you make a sympathetic interpretation of your draft budget – that financial savings are the same. But the conditions for our municipalities will be different. The revenue that Hagfors, Höör, Hörby and other municipalities lose when you take the money out of the system does not get back when you raise the tax levels at the same time, so that they get increased revenue from municipal tax. That's why it's a redeployment. Some municipalities in our country, often rural municipalities, child-rich municipalities and municipalities that have an age structure that entails a great deal of care and that the welfare is extra heavy, are not given the opportunity to do the same care, care, school and childcare as the rich municipalities, which are often suburban municipalities around our big cities. Financial savings are probably the same, but we redistribute resources from rural Sweden to a little richer municipalities around our big cities. I ask again: why is this fair? Where is it reasonable to do this? What does Swedish democratic justice really look like?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1171	Mr President, I would like to Again: If you read our budget option properly, you can see that unlike you, we are earmarking grants to the municipalities that are going to go to the core business of welfare rather than distributing them, for example, through an appropriation item called Support in connection with the refugee situation. We earmark our funding for the core business of welfare. They should go to health care, school and care, nothing else. It's as simple as that.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1172	Mr President, I would like to Dennis Dioukarev begins by talking about equality and involuntary part-time work. I have to say, I'm a little surprised. That's a little unexpected. However, I shall take this opportunity to say that, regardless of which party you represent, I welcome the fact that gender equality issues are being highlighted, including the Swedish Democrats. I do not believe, however, that we have quite the same view on how to achieve equality. Dennis Dioukarev himself raised the issue of quotas. For me, quotas are a means, not a goal. It is important to be clear that as long as we have an unequal society, we sometimes need to make political decisions that lead to an equal society. Dennis Dioukarev raises the issue of part-time work. It seems very strange in the light of what happened in this House two weeks ago, when we debated public procurement. It was about how we should use every fifth tax krona in Sweden and what requirements we should be able to make. Then we in the Left Party and the government wanted to make social demands. The Swedish Democrats did not want that. It did not want it to be possible in any way to protect those who work in public-sector establishments. They did not want to make any social demands, and they made sure that there was a majority for this in the Riksdag. I believe that it was a breach of promise against the voters of the Swedish Democrats. I thought that was very strange. Then you didn't talk about involuntary part-time work, Dennis Dioukarev. That's when you were talking about halal meat. The 10 welfare billions are a permanent increase to welfare. We have a distribution of them, so that at the beginning more money goes to the municipalities that have taken greater responsibility for the refugee situation we have had in Sweden. I think that is a good policy. This shows that there have been differences between different municipalities in Sweden and that there are different opportunities to improve the situation. That is why I think it is reasonable to make this kind of priority. There will therefore be a permanent increase, which means that the local government sector will have the largest increase since the introduction of the municipal equalisation system.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1176	Mr President, I would like to It would be interesting to know how to allocate quotas to company boards. Is it on the basis of the social, legal or biological sex? It is a small sidetrack, but it would be interesting to hear Håkan Svenneling's opinion on this issue. With our policy, a majority of those in the asylum system today will be rejected. There will be no burden on the welfare system at all, because we are tying welfare benefits more closely to Swedish citizenship, because we believe it is an integration policy initiative.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1178	Mr President, I would like to Let us begin by stating that Dennis Dioukarev is in breach of the laws and regulations and simply states that those who have applied for asylum in Sweden do not have the right of asylum. It's scary in itself. It says quite a lot about the policy of the Swedish Democrats that one can say so categorically that they will be rejected and will not be allowed to be part of Swedish society, regardless of whether they have fled from war and oppression. I think that is a serious thing to do as a foundation. I do not believe that Dennis Dioukarev and I will agree on quotas, and I will not enter into a discussion on which gender to base. However, I believe that it can be seen that the paternity months of parental insurance have led to men taking greater responsibility for parenthood than before. We can see that in countries that have introduced quotas on company boards, this has led to women getting a higher share of positions on company boards and coming forward better, so that the glass ceiling is broken. However, as Dennis Dioukarev very well pointed out in his speech, we have a problem with the fact that there is sometimes a very elitist view of gender equality when only the women on company boards are discussed. For example, we need to talk about involuntary part-time work. Then we need to have a requirement that full-time is the norm and part-time an opportunity. These are demands that the Left Party operates in municipalities and county councils in a good way. We are also pushing demands here in the Swedish Parliament to get there. If the Swedish Democrats were to pursue this policy in practice, we might see another labour market in this country. Unfortunately, however, the Swedish Democrats do not. They say one thing to their voters but vote differently when it is time to vote in parliament.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1182	Mr President, I would like to It's kind of funny. Here I am talking about the right to full time, and then the Left Party comes and starts talking about the immigration policy of the Swedish Democrats. I am pleasantly surprised that we want to talk about our profile issue. However, it should be said that Danish figures show that the majority of unaccompanied refugee children actually lied about their age and turned out to be adults. With our policy, people who have lied to a citizenship or a residence permit would have it revoked. We have another example from the EU border agency Frontex. 60% turned out to be economic migrants and are therefore not subject to the UN Convention on Refugees. They would also have their residence permits revoked if our policy were in force.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1184	Mr President, I would like to Area of expenditure 25 General grants to municipalities – this may not sound like the world's kiosk rollers. But as former municipal councillors – there are also other municipal councillors here – I know the importance of this budget line for a large part of Sweden's municipalities and county councils, perhaps especially rural and sparsely populated municipalities, which already find it difficult to get the budget together today. When you read the Government's budget bill, you get the impression of both texts and diagrams that Sweden's municipalities are doing well and that they have shown great profits over the past ten years. I have written something in brackets in my script: It is perhaps time to introduce a profit ban in the municipalities. It is true that municipalities make profits, but behind these texts and diagrams there are a lot of rural and sparsely populated municipalities that have very difficulties in getting a budget. Major municipal profits have been generated in urban and suburban municipalities over the past ten years. Government grants finance approximately 19 per cent of municipal activities, but although state grants are important for municipalities and county councils, of course, the largest and most important source of income is municipal tax. Something that always bothered me during my time as local councillor was all the specially-destined contributions that the state brought to the municipalities and that often created sub-optimizations. I would like the state to have greater confidence in our good municipal representatives and let them decide for themselves where the state subsidies are most useful to the citizens. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a changing country. The municipal healthcare, school and care activities face major challenges in the future. But while we are facing major challenges in the future, I would like to point out that we live in one of the best countries in the world. With good political decisions that hold the whole country together and get people to work, we will also be able to cope with the challenges of the future in the same way that we have coped with previous difficulties and made Sweden successful. Since the municipal sector receives its tax revenues based on hours worked in the municipality, our political decisions in the Riksdag must be focused on how more people will go from dependency to work and thus gain power over their own lives. We also need to reward higher education in order for future jobs to be created in our municipalities around Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party's policy is aimed at creating the conditions for jobs and entrepreneurship. It is not the solution to all problems, but it creates resources to deal with all problems. In our budget motion, we in the Center Party have proposed an alternative to the government's budget bill. The motion proposes major and important structural reforms in the labour market and the housing market, rescheduling of taxes on labour and business conditions, and a strong green tax shift, where reduced tax on labour is financed by the polluter paying for emissions. The aim is to free up all the forces that exist around our country, so that new initiatives and ideas are rewarded instead of being punished. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Parliament has supported the Government's budget proposal and the expenditure framework and estimates of revenue proposed there. Since Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than the one which I and the Center Party wish to see, we are abstaining from taking part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations, but I am of course in favour of our particular opinion in this report. The responsibility for a large part of the political issues lies with municipalities and county councils. This applies, for example, to school, health care and public transport. If Sweden is to function, municipalities and county councils must be given the opportunity to function as well. However, politicians at national level – where I too have been included since 11 January, oddly enough – are inclined to try to regulate local politics in detail, which often results in proposals for targeted state subsidies that tie the local level behind. The Center Party is therefore working on the principle that targeted state grants should be converted as much as possible into general state grants. It also creates an increased scope for efficiency efficiency. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, the Center Party supports the proposal to maintain the temporary increase in the general state grants, which were implemented under the Migration Agreement, corresponding to an annual contribution of SEK 10 billion to the municipalities. But since we believe in a local policy where decisions are made as close to the citizens as possible, the Center Party rejects a number of targeted state grants and instead raises the general state grants by SEK 2.5 billion annually, so that the municipalities can decide for themselves what state grants are to be made and where they are most useful to the citizens. In total, the general state grants are thus increased by SEK 12.5 billion per year in our proposal. There are other changes affecting government grants to municipalities. We want to replace special employment support with developed new start jobs. We want to introduce a retirement home guarantee. We want to introduce so-called entry deductions, and we want to increase the benefit value of non-environmental cars. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to share with you the concerns about future deterioration presented by the National Audit Office, the Institute of Economic Affairs and the European Commission. The Swedish National Audit Office says that if the Government's forecast were to be realised, it will require significant reductions in municipal welfare by 2020. If municipalities' expenditure is to be able to respond to changes in population size and age composition, they need to increase by SEK 50 billion beyond what is in the government's forecast until 2020. ..................................................... In spite of these somewhat bitter pills, I would finally like to wish the President, the Bureau and my colleagues a really happy Christmas.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1199	Mr President, I would like to Yes, in negotiations with the government, the Left Party has achieved 10 billion for welfare. This is the largest investment in the local government sector since the introduction of the state subsidy system. We are, and many with us, very happy about that. However, the Center Party has tried to break us. I thought we should now discuss how center math works. During the autumn, the Center has said, among other things, in an article in Svenska Dagbladet on 4 October: At the same time, we spend 50 billion over the next four years on strengthening the finances of municipalities, 10 billion more than the government. ..................................................... However, the Center Party also rejects the proposals on free outpatient care for the elderly, free glasses for children, free mammography for women and free dental care for young people. The children's part of the national standard of subsistence support is rejected, and the school of euthanasia is rejected. What you give with one hand to the municipalities from the Center Party you take back with the other hand. More general state subsidies are made available, but even more so the targeted state subsidies are removed. In total, Peter Helander, you can say that you are removing 8 1⁄2 billion SEK per year from the municipal sector, from our common welfare. So it is exactly the opposite of what you claim to be doing. I do not know whether you have deliberately deceived the citizens or whether you have miscalculated. Center math is, in any case, something we should avoid. I am pleased that it is not the Centre Party's economic policy that governs Sweden.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1205	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the line! It is true that we choose to remove targeted state subsidies. There was a great deal in my speech that explained just that. We believe that the municipal representatives can decide for themselves what holes there are to put money in. Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party are happy to talk about the fact that they are behind the 10 billion to the municipalities – I claim that there are several of us who have been involved in this agreement. We'll put it on the municipalities. They can decide for themselves what they want to spend the money for. I don't know if Håkan Svenneling has been mayor. Then he might have agreed with me that the municipalities themselves are able to make these efforts. I remember when the Wärnersson money came a long time ago. Then we received targeted grants to increase the number of teachers in school. We had already done that five years earlier. But now we would increase the number even more in order to have access to targeted state subsidies. That is why we should avoid targeted state subsidies as far as possible. I would like to ask Håkan Svenneling a question. We are pursuing a responsible economic policy. Does Håkan Svenneling think that the current budget is sustainable in the long term, or does he share the view of the Swedish National Audit Office, the European Commission and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs on the budget? They believe that it is not sustainable. There is a shortage of 50 billion by 2020. It is easy to say that you should invest in the welfare sector when there are warning signs that it can collapse, because there is no budget coverage for what is coming in the future.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1209	Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid I've never been a councilman. I only became a group leader in the municipality, in opposition, which was still instructive in how it works in a municipality. I think it is good that the pendulum has shifted from a great many targeted state grants to a little fewer targeted state grants and more general investments. I believe that all municipal politicians are happy that we are now seeing this development in the Swedish Parliament. Nevertheless, I think they are happier if they receive targeted state subsidies than if they receive 8 1⁄2 billion less per year to their municipalities. This means that I still believe that the money is more crucial than how we send it, which in itself can also be crucial. Like Peter Helander himself, more money is needed in the future. I hope that we will have more parties that put up with a policy of spending more money on our common welfare and on our municipalities and county councils. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to raise another issue that has been debated hotly. In the 2010 election campaign, the Center Party had big placards saying they were the Green Voice of the Alliance. Green issues are important for the Center Party to meet the environmental and climate threat – for example, we have previously talked about green tax exchange. But now it seems that the pendulum in the Center Party has turned. Now they are investing in large-scale and expensive campaigns against various taxes, to which there are not even proposals yet to be discussed. The road wear charge – or, as the Center Party calls it, the kilometre tax – is probably the one that has been the most in the cry. But even what they call airline tax has received very harsh criticism from the Center Party. I made a small calculation of how Peter Helander could fare when he's traveling from Mora. It takes a little longer to travel by train, but it is much cheaper than taking the flight. I wonder why it would be so bad if Peter Helander had to pay 80 SEK in air tax because he has the opportunity to save some time but at the same time soil the environment. In fact, it is the polluter who should pay. What happened to the Center Party? When did one go from being a green party to becoming a tax bencher party? And how are we going to finance our common welfare if we don't have any taxes to face the climate threat with?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1217	Mr President, I would like to I thank Håkan for the question. I am pleased that the Left Party agrees with the Center Party's view of general state aid. What is it that creates prosperity? What is it that creates money in the municipalities? It would be fantastic if it were only government subsidies that save the municipalities. This is a small part of the municipality's base in order to be able to perform well-being. The great need of municipalities is for jobs to be created. Working hours in the municipality is what creates well-being. This may be the ideological difference between the Left Party and the Center Party. The Left Party believes that this can be saved by raising taxes and submitting subsidies to the municipalities. I believe that we are going to help municipalities create entrepreneurship and jobs and through this get more tax revenue so that they can carry out health care, school and care. It is not the case that health care, school and long-term care will be self-employed without income. I travel by train to Stockholm, and I am perhaps the one in the Riksdag who has the longest to Stockholm, in terms of time, although I live in Dalarna. It takes 3 hours and 40 minutes to travel by train. The Finnish Transport Agency, which is the authority responsible for railway maintenance, says that it may take 40 minutes longer in a few years because maintenance does not work. In addition, it already takes 15 minutes longer today than ten years ago. But again: What is it that creates prosperity, Håkan? You did not want to comment on this earlier, but what do you say about the Swedish National Audit Office, the Institute of Economic Affairs and the European Commission's view that the budget you have contributed to is not sustainable and that welfare risks collapsing?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1222	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Center Party's Peter Helander highlights the Swedish Audit Office's review of the government's budget bill. I would like to start by saying that what the National Audit Office is doing in this case is becoming an opinion-forming party to the debate rather than dealing with auditing. Apart from what they say, I think this is something we should consider. Here we probably have the same view: the Swedish National Audit Office should perhaps devote itself to other things. Having said that, I would like to point out that their argument against the government's budget is that the government has calculated electricity and that the budget lacks SEK 50 billion. In fact, the plan for the state budget is to have a plus of 78 billion by 2020. The thing is that the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government count in different ways. The Swedish National Audit Office makes an assessment of which policies may be implemented. This is probably not the main parade of the Swedish National Audit Office; the government should reasonably know this better. I will not say any more about this, although there is certainly much to say, but I still wanted to get it said. My question to Peter Helander – or my reasoning – is of a more principled nature. In these debates we have had some exchanges in the past, which have focused on the view of state grants to municipalities and county councils. We both have experience as municipal councillors and have worked for a long time at home in the municipality. We know what it means when you get general state subsidies, and we know what that means when you get special, targeted state grants. In the past, we have had quite a common view that the general state grants are preferable to the targeted, specialised grants. But when I read the budgets of your colleagues in the bourgeois alliance, I see that it is the principle of targeted state grants that takes precedence, not the principle of general state grants. My question to Peter Helander, and to the Center Party, is how to view this. Is it not better that we consider making an agreement – in this regard – between the Center Party and the government?
i-7rpb6Mz3tAYB2MAVNhrv7u	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Niklas, for the questions. I understand that Niklas Karlsson and the government do not want to listen to what the Swedish National Audit Office says. It is understandable that you think they are a party, even if they are not. You might think so, but what does Niklas Karlsson think about the Institute for Economic Development? Are they also a party that is against the government and that blacks it out? Is the European Commission a party that is wrong? When three such heavy bodies – and there are others – have comments on the sustainability of the budget, one may have to listen. I say this with all goodwill, because it would be a disaster for Sweden if Swedish welfare fell apart because we do not have a budget that holds together and that we have to borrow from. We now have a boom. Who has created it can be discussed, but it is a boom, and in boom we should save money to build shelters against the recession that is coming, sooner or later. Niklas invited us to cooperate with the government and leave the Alliance behind. I believe that Sweden needs a new leadership. Sweden needs a new government that promotes work, which holds the budget and promises no more than it can deliver over time. That is my answer to Mr Niklas.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1233	Mr President, I would like to I almost get the impression that the Center Party and Peter Helander have not considered this issue, even though we discussed it less than a year ago. I still thought that the idea of what this would mean had been in the Center Party. The prize for the Center Party's rhetoric when talking about new leadership and that Sweden needs an alliance government is that the Center Party gets less of its policy implemented. For eight years of alliance rule, it is not the general state contributions that have been the leaders. There, the People's Movement Centre has had to take a step back in order for it to be targeted, dedicated state grants that are sent to municipalities and county councils. My question is honest, as is my attitude. If the Center Party now thinks that it is general support for Sweden's municipalities and county councils that is the important thing and the best thing should be considered to settle with the other parties that have that attitude. Shouldn't you do this instead of locking yourself in to old solutions and making sacrifices that mean getting through less of your policy than you – in this case – would get if you chose to settle with the government?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1236	Mr President, I would like to I will comment on Niklas' assertion that it would be better for the Center Party to join the government's positions, which, historically and even today, would be a disaster for Sweden. Swedish countryside and rural areas need a party that works for small-scaleness, which works for the whole country to live. Instead, the government and the Green Party, supported by the Left, want to tax and punish rural areas through distance taxation. Flying is a prerequisite for us to be able to keep business, industry and jobs in Norrland. Then one can say that it is about so small money, that it is so little, but this is a drop that makes the cup run over. The distance tax in the countryside and what you call road wear tax is something that strikes hard at Norrland and the countryside. Surely it is not a policy that promotes small municipalities and rural areas and that would stand up for the values of the Center Party at all. No, this country needs a new government that stands up for the whole country, which works with small-scaleness and which does not impose penal taxation on rural areas.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1240	Mr President, I would like to What we are discussing now, which is about the finances of municipalities, county councils and regions, is a cornerstone of the Swedish social contract. The fact that people know that they get welfare for their children, themselves or their old parents is what holds Swedish society together, and that in this House we clearly stand up for the core of welfare is that we stand up for the Swedish social contract. From the Liberals' side, we say school first. A successful school is crucial for Sweden's future. With good knowledge, Sweden is strengthened. And in a situation with many new arrivals in school, big investments are required in the school. It's about raising teachers' salaries. It is about the training of teachers. It is about extending the schooling requirement for new arrivals and halving summer holidays to focus on learning the Swedish language. It is about more hours of teaching in comprehensive school and more math hours in secondary school. It's about clarifying order in school. It is about children and young people going to school earlier. We're proposing a ten-year primary school. Liberals are investing SEK 43 billion in school in the coming years. It's the single biggest bet on school ever. That is SEK 32 billion more than the government invests in the school. It is a very clear priority, Mr President, that the Liberals put school first. It is also a matter of safeguarding health care. We now see how the care queues are growing, how people have to wait longer and longer before they get medical care. It doesn't make sense. The fact that the government in this situation chooses to abolish the so-called queue billion – the contribution previously made to the regions and county councils that made targeted efforts for better accessibility – indicates that it does not take this issue seriously. Mr President, I would like to We see how nurses resign, how the dissatisfaction among the employees in the care system becomes increasingly evident and how the feeling that you are not allowed to do what you are trained to do at work grows stronger. All of this makes the care work worse. In this situation, the government chooses to abolish, with a clear alexander hem, the targeted state contribution to the county councils and regions that invest in increasing accessibility. Talk about manslaughter! We Liberals are proposing a new cue billion. We propose to invest in more health care professionals so that the professionals can be professionals at work. We propose to invest in more specialist nurses in order to increase the knowledge and quality of care and thus improve confidence in and accessibility to care. Mr President, I would like to Liberals stand up for the disabled. A welfare policy worthy of the name is about standing up for those who have the toughest in our society. We are making a priority of what we call an LSS billion, which stands in stark contrast to the reductions that the government and the Left Party are now doing on a broad front around the country against the weakest and most vulnerable groups in society. We notice a great deal of concern in people with disabilities and their relatives when they find that they lose hours of personal assistant and when their freedom and their everyday lives are cut. The government and the Left Party bear full responsibility for this policy. We choose another route for Sweden when we prioritise a special LSS billion. We believe that the welfare society, if it is to work, must protect those who need it most and who for some reason have a disability. Mr President, I would like to The government chooses a different path from the Liberals. When we say the school first, that we should invest in health care and let the professionals be professionals and when we say that we stand up for the disabled, then the government chooses a completely different path. At the same time, we are pursuing a policy of unfunded aid increases and increases the deficits in the state budget, which means that in the next recession we are weaker and will not be able to safeguard welfare. This compromises much of the social contract that is so important to Sweden. It also increases taxes on labour, making it less profitable for people to work. Logically, this means that over time it means less tax revenue in the municipalities and to the welfare. In this way, it slowly seeps down a policy that weakens welfare. Mr President, I would like to We stand for another policy. We are clear that school should go first and that healthcare and disabled people should be given priority. We believe that this is what builds Sweden strongly. As our proposals for a framework fell – those that would mean that the Swedish economy and public finances would be even stronger in the next financial crisis – we have no request in the debate. However, we have a specific opinion which I naturally support.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1253	Mr President, I would like to Mats Persson is talking about the social contract. Mats Persson is 36 years old. But I'm wondering if he can't be Sweden's youngest old man, if I may be a little brazen, because on the Liberals' Facebook page and in a debate article, Mats Persson says we have to deal with young people's laziness. The old Greeks were already whining that the young people were lazy. And throughout history we have seen a constant hatred of young people's culture, such as dance band treasure, dance state and Siewert Öholm's execution of hard rock. Each generation has been subjected to criticism by previous generations in order not to behave properly and to be lazy. This long-standing tradition now goes on with the young man Mats Persson. Mats Persson says that today's youth is curled up. But Mats Persson has received an answer. Stella, who is a staff member, has answered Mats Persson and wonders if he can even last six months as a staff member. And I think she actually has a point. If Mats Persson had instead been a spring victor at home, he would have had to live with the phone's ringtone, which means that you should report for work the fastest possible, and lacked the opportunity to plan your life. Unlike me and Mats, you don't know if it's Christmas leave next week or whether you're going to have a vacation at all. I think you can read Aftonbladet's series of articles with completely different eyes than Mats Persson does and note that it is not more low-wage jobs for lazy young people that politics needs to fix, but more decent jobs where you become part of the team, where you get to attend staff meetings and go to further education and get a decent salary so that you can move away from home. It needs a place to live. In the report we can also read about entrepreneurs who want to have more and better contact with Arbetsförmedlingen and about employment intermediaries who want better contact with companies in order to match the skills they need. But Mats Persson's solution is to shut down Arbetsförmedlingen instead. The Arbetsförmedlingen has previously said that you should close 100 offices, but then Sweden's municipalities reacted which allowed you to withdraw the proposal. I think that Sweden needs a policy in which Arbetsförmedlingen can play its core role, to convey jobs, not Liberal politics, where you should control young people.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1261	Mr President, I would like to I can promise Håkan Svenneling that I am a cool old man, if I am Sweden's youngest old man. What I as this cool old man have noticed when I meet entrepreneurs and employers and when I also take part of the entrepreneurs' own surveys– they recently did an entrepreneurship barometer– is that something has happened. Something has happened with the view of work. Something has happened to the work ethic in our society. The anecdotal examples that are often highlighted in the debate are about people who ask their boss if they should request sick leave or leave for the care of children when the pet is sick and you do not want to work. I meet so many entrepreneurs and employers who confirm that the anecdotal examples actually bear witness to a new view of work. That is, of course, related to the way the school is designed. Do we have expectations of people? Do we have the view that we have obligations and not just rights in society? I think that we have obligations and not just rights in our society. The social contract is that you do the right thing and that if you have the opportunity to work, you do everything you can to look for a job. It's the base of our society. How will a person who rises at half past six every morning and for forty years has paid taxes have confidence in the social system unless he or she knows that the one who cannot work at the moment is doing his or her utmost to return to work? I believe that this is fundamental to our society. These are old classic values that have characterized the Swedish labour movement throughout history. But I note in the debate that they no longer permeate the same labour movement. The criticism always comes from the left. Criticism always comes from the Social Democrats when I emphasise the importance of taking responsibility for yourself and actually coming to work on time and doing what you have said you should do. That's standing up for the community contract.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1267	Mr President, I would like to It's good that you're worried about the community contract, Mats Persson. However, I think that we are concerned in a slightly different way, which means that there are political differences. I am concerned that we will end up in a situation where people feel that they are not part of society but are outside and that they must not be part of society, but are kept out of it all the time. I meet a lot of people who have ended up in different cycles where they do not manage to get back to work. It is terrible to see these human fates. Many times it is about young people who leave upper secondary school with perfectly good grades not getting a chance on the Swedish labour market and that the conditions for which they are placed are quite oschysta. Politics is very much about having too much pay, even though they can barely live on their wages. They are referred to involuntary part-time work, which we discussed earlier, or working conditions where they do not have a permanent job. Sweden needs a social contract where we do not lower wages and raise rents, as the Liberals want. Sweden needs a social contract in which we politicians take responsibility and build those 700 000 homes that are needed, which is the largest housing investment in 20 years and is in this budget. We must also say that it is not the policy's responsibility to reduce conditions but to improve conditions. That is why it was important that we voted through the Public Procurement Act and that it imposes social requirements. This policy is not up to the Liberals. It is probably because we have a slightly different view of how to reach the social contract and which policy leads to it.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1274	Mr President, I would like to It becomes clear in the debate that there are two choices for the Swedish people and that there are two different approaches to where Sweden is going. On the one hand, we have Håkan Svenneling's view that entrepreneurs are bad and want to suck people out and offer bad conditions in every situation. It is not a question of own responsibility, but of citizens' salaries being raised in the debate. People should be paid by society, the state and taxpayers without having to do any kind of work. This is the policy that Håkan Svenneling, the Environmental Party and parts of the Social Democrats represent. I think that is quite the wrong way for Sweden to go. We can ask both private and public employers – a headmaster at a school, a pre-school manager or a manager of a special housing – if something has happened to the work ethic. The coherent answer is yes. Something has happened with the view of your own responsibility for getting on time to work, to make it extra in the workplace, not to get sick on Monday and so on. I am not making this up, but I have asked 5 000 small businesses and public employers what they perceive as the biggest problem when it comes to growing and running a good business. Well, it's that something has happened to social morality and work ethic. This, if anything, is a political task to clarify. It is a question of compensation for receiving support and of having clear expectations in unemployment insurance. It is a question of sending a clear signal from a political point of view that it should always pay more to work than to live on subsidies. It is a future-oriented policy, and that is how we build Sweden strongly.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1279	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats are committed supporters of municipal self-government. Municipalities look different and should find solutions to municipal problems specifically municipal. The municipalities have not only the right to design their activities in the best way possible, but also the responsibility to finance their commitments. The parliament is sometimes tricky and wants to push the municipalities in a certain direction with targeted state grants. But these contributions should be seen as signals in one direction and not take responsibility away from the municipal politicians. It is at local level that solutions can be found to many of the challenges of the future, sometimes together with government regulatory changes. The municipalities do not lack challenges. They have a great shortage of housing and an elderly care, school and social services that are in need of trained labour now and in the future. Being a municipal politician, as for us in this House, means prioritising. Removing the element of prioritising and saying that giving everything to everyone can provide bad and inefficient solutions that are not carefully worked out. That is the strategy the government has taken. If you just pour money into the municipal sector, everything will work out. What is most important for municipalities and county councils to maintain and develop welfare is the development of the tax base. How the number of hours worked develops is therefore crucial for the welfare mission in municipalities and county councils to be continued and secured. Despite a favourable economic climate, which has led to a positive development of the tax base, there is cause for concern as the government's policy does not promote more people in work. SKL tracks a weaker development of the tax base already in next year. The changes in health insurance, the lack of reforms to improve integration and increased taxes will not lead to more hours worked. The government's budget is thus long-term problematic for municipalities and county councils. During the time of the Alliance in government, we showed that it is possible to reduce taxes on jobs while at the same time ensuring that resources are maintained or strengthened – if the right reforms are implemented. The Alliance's policy promoted welfare and strengthened municipalities and county councils, and it could do so again. If we look at data from SCB, we see that the average tax force, i.e. the tax base per inhabitant, increased by over 12 percent during the alliance government, from SEK 162 600 in 2006 to SEK 185 800 in 2014. Data from the Swedish Financial Control Agency and SCB show that the municipal tax revenue increased. This applies to both constant price developments with an increase of almost 19 per cent and per capita development with an increase of almost 13 per cent. If we look at data from SCB, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Agency for Education, Health and Care, we see that the resources for school, healthcare and care increased by more than 100 billion in fixed prices, from SEK 490 billion in 2006 to SEK 596 billion in 2014. This shows that resources increased per inhabitant, per pupil and per inpatient. Employment is absolutely crucial for the local government sector's resources for welfare. This is not only said by the alliance parties, but also by the Minister for Finance, Magdalena Andersson. Then it is remarkable that the government's solution for municipalities is not to carry out job-creating reforms but rather to provide general contributions that will not solve the long-term welfare challenges. The Christian Democrats' job proposals will lead to more hours worked and continued good development of the tax base, which promotes welfare in the long term. Government grants are of course important for the local government sector, but with so-called free reforms, the government's proposal tends to lead to underfunded services, increased wage development and misprioritising of activities. For the local government sector, it is crucial that government control systems promote efficiency and effectiveness. Examples of such good government governance are performance-based compensations that leave it to county councils and municipalities to choose appropriate methods of implementation. A concrete example is the queue billion. It took the government away, which has caused the queues to increase again. The Christian Democrats are carrying out a series of reforms for the local government sector. In our draft budget we have welfare efforts for health care workers, elderly care, hospital care, school and support for families. Together, they amount to 7.1 billion in 2017 and increase to 9.5 billion in 2020. Examples of such initiatives are the care services team to relieve the heavily burdened health care staff in the country's hospitals, in primary care and in elderly care. We also invest heavily in further developing the skills of health care professionals, through the Nursing Lift, which provides the opportunity to further train and acquire specialist training and through leadership training for elderly care managers. We are introducing a retirement home guarantee and a meal lift to ensure that the elderly receive the security and dignity they deserve. We want to introduce a student health guarantee and a special teacher lift in school. We want to ensure that families receive advice and support when they need it. And we make even more investments that come to the municipalities and county councils. We would particularly like to point out the queue billions, which proved to be working – the queues in healthcare were reduced. Now that the government has removed it increases the queues again. This saving cannot have been for the benefit of the citizen. It is included in our budget again because we believe it is important for people to receive treatment as soon as possible and not to wait for saving reasons. I believe that our budget provides a better opportunity to meet the welfare challenges in the future for municipalities. Focus on something else would be irresponsible and short-term.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1299	Mr President, I would like to Municipal economic balance is being discussed in Parliament's Chamber this evening. It is ultimately about creating good and equal economic conditions for Sweden's municipalities and county councils. When economic development varies between individual municipalities and county councils, when the costs in the municipal sector continue to increase and when the structural balance of the local population, such as the difference in income earned, the proportion of working people and the age structure, is so different, the levelling-up system plays a crucial role in ensuring that the whole country lives. Without the equalisation system, 12 per cent of municipal tax would be sufficient for the municipality with the highest tax burden to achieve the average municipal tax revenue. The population living in the municipality with the lowest tax force would have to pay 28 per cent of their income in order to reach the same level. If you add the county tax, the difference in tax collection would be more than 35 000 SEK per year for an average wage earner. When the Swedish Democrats propose in their draft budget a savings of SEK 26 billion in compensation, it is a direct blow to Rural Sweden and the municipalities with less favourable economic conditions. It is basically a gigantic redistribution with a reversed Robin Hood effect, from the municipalities that have it a little tougher to the municipalities that already have pretty good conditions. The Swedish Democrats clearly show that they are the absolute right-wing party of the Riksdag. In this competition, the Moderates come in a good second place. They are proposing cuts of 20 billion next year, of which 4 billion are hitting municipalities and county councils directly. It is about cutting public health and psychiatry, reducing the number of employees in care for the elderly, reducing the working environment in welfare and stopping large resources for municipalities that build housing for all young people who need to move away from home. I have said this before, but I say it again: I do not believe that there are many councillors around our country who agree that cuts of billions strengthen their ability to maintain good welfare and a good school. Mr President, I would like to The proposals for social democratic initiatives and bourgeois cuts that we are debating here today should therefore be put into perspective that the local government sector as a whole has certainly had positive results since 2004. The challenges and problems ahead are all the greater. The level of investment in the local government sector is currently high, and demographic developments, the reception of asylum seekers and new arrivals, and citizens' expectations of equal quality service are some of the challenges we face in the future. This will require, among other things, staff and skills supply and capacity for innovation and overall vision, but also efficiency improvements. In this light, one can rightly agree that the 10 welfare billions that the Riksdag has decided to contribute to the general state subsidies are a very important addition to the local government sector. Without state grants, fewer municipalities and county councils would be able to balance revenues and costs, which would give them less opportunity to manage their welfare mission. There are perhaps some who raise a finger of warning and believe that increased government grants create expectations among municipalities and county councils that the state should be there in difficult situations. As we scratch the surface, we quickly see that these motives are both obscure and ideological. Mr President, I would like to In a world that is constantly changing, a strong and equal welfare plays a role in the individual's daring to develop and face the only thing we know with certainty: that tomorrow is completely different. Welfare in municipalities and county councils affects people's everyday lives both concretely and directly. It creates security in old age, gives life chances in youth and increases people's freedom and ability to have a rich and meaningful life. The proposals now on Parliament's table create good conditions for municipalities and county councils to provide important welfare services such as health care, care for the elderly and school. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Finance to be approved.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1313	Mr President, I would like to It was a beautiful speech. Of course, much of that can be agreed. We hope that the municipalities will have a favourable situation in the future and will have a bright future. The problem is that the government budget does not provide a bright future for all people. The government has reduced LSS spending in its budget, which means that many people are facing a dark future. People do not know what tomorrow will mean and whether they will get the support and help to come out and be able to go to the store or other things that will enable them to be part of society. I can't see that it was a real effort to cut back on those who need the help of society-- those who need us. You do so in your budget, Niklas Karlsson. In addition, in the regulations to Försäkringskassan, you are talking about cutting the number of hours. Is this really a budget that the government wants to support – a budget that the Social Democrats want to support? I thought you were protecting the LSS reform and the people who need help from society.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1316	Mr President, I would like to What the government is doing now is to reverse a development in which we follow the principle that you should bear the resources according to your ability and that you should get as needed. What we are currently discussing in the Riksdag is the conditions for municipalities and county councils to have in the coming years. In the speeches we have heard from Larry Söder and the Christian Democrats, but also from other bourgeois parties, there is a fairly coherent picture of the challenges facing the local government sector. At the same time, the conclusions are quite different in terms of what measures we should take to ensure that the close welfare, which is direct and concrete for each individual in our society – in municipalities and county councils – will be as good as possible. We believe that the 10 billions of welfare that are now at the table of Parliament and that we want to raise – 40 billion over a four-year period – are important and necessary. The Christian Democrats and Larry Söder in their speech say that they do not matter and have no effect. I do not share that view. If these resources are not provided, the challenges we have talked about in all our speeches will be much greater, and the impact on the citizens living in our country – in our municipalities and county councils – will be very negative. We are going to discuss this issue today. That is why I say – to the last breath – that the 10 billion is necessary for the local government sector to fulfil its mission.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1321	Mr President, I would like to I note that my question on LSS is not answered in any way. You're very proud that you've got 10 billion across the municipalities, but apparently they weren't enough for those who need LSS. In some way, you are proud that you can ensure that you pass on a lot of future costs to the municipalities. In fact, that is what you do when you do not ensure that jobs are created and the number of hours worked increases in order to get a tax base that allows you to pay these things in the future. But apparently the Social Democrats' money was not enough for the LSS. They send a regulatory letter to Försäkringskassan saying that Försäkringskassan should reduce this. Isn't that cutting resources from those who actually need society's services the most? I cannot understand how a government can fail to see that this is something on which money needs to be invested. Unfortunately, I don't think I'm getting answers this time either from you, Niklas Karlsson. This is an important issue. We will hunt you with it until you change your mind, because this is so important to these people. I can't believe you can't see this. You are only talking about your 10 billion, which, by the way, is borrowed.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1325	Mr President, I would like to There is reason to inform and remind the Parliament that over the last two years it has grown to 120 000 new jobs. Unemployment is falling and approaching a level of 6%. Full employment is still a long way to go, but progress is moving in the right direction. The assessment is that the next few years will grow to 87 000 new jobs in the local government sector alone. It is happening that is important for us to be able to strengthen the quality of care for the elderly, childcare and school. In this perspective, the government's budget is a job. It is about creating new jobs, reducing unemployment and giving people the opportunity to support themselves. It will also mean that we will have increased tax revenue. My hope is that they will increase so much that we will meet the challenges we have in municipalities and county councils in the coming years. However, we cannot rule out the need for the state to make further efforts through the municipal economic equalisation system. The difference between the proposals on Parliament's table today is the 10 billion. The Christian Democrats and Larry Söder throw a little recklessly out of themselves that they have poured out this money to municipalities and county councils. It is not a question of spending money on municipalities and county councils. It is a conscious choice to ensure that the commitments that exist in the near well-being are able to work. In view of what has been said by the Christian Democrats in this debate, we note that with a bourgeois budget, where the Christian Democrats had had a decisive influence, the conditions for success in these missions would have been considerably worse. I'm sorry about that.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1329	Mr President, I would like to As I predicted, there was a lot of discussion about the 10 billion. It turns out that 7 billion goes directly to compensation for refugees. In fact, it is 3 billion people who are going into the equalisation system, and they are going to be enough for more people to be hired, they are going to compensate for the fact that the government has increased employers' contributions for young and older people and they are going to strengthen health care, school and one and the other. My first question is therefore: what is this money really to be used for? As far as discussions on the 10 billion are concerned, it is rather 3 billion that is at stake. I would like to have Niklas Karlsson's comment on this.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1332	Mr President, I would like to That question is rhetorical. Anette Åkesson and the Moderates know that it is not possible to answer it in detail, and that is the point of the general state grants. It also provides the best conditions for municipalities and county councils to carry out their activities. Instead of Anette Åkesson, I and everyone else sitting in this House talking about exactly what the resources are to be used for, the municipalities may use them according to their own heads to carry out their mission. Some municipalities have enormous challenges with new arrivals, but also with great investment needs and poor welfare. In the neighbouring municipality only a few miles away, the conditions may be quite different. Anette Åkesson knows that. We can compare our municipalities. There are 50 miles between Båstad and Landskrona, but these are very different conditions. It does not get better because we in the Swedish Parliament talk about how this money should be used. The municipal councillors, the municipal boards and the budget preparations will be left to decide for themselves according to their own head. Then I know that Anette Åkesson probably wants to make a point of saying that this money should be used for everything and that it should be enough for so much. Of course, they will not be enough for everything. Many municipalities will continue to face major challenges in the future. It is therefore important that we have a job-creating budget and that we do not rule out new resources coming to the local government sector. However, municipalities must also shoulder their responsibilities to make them more efficient. After this, however, the question boils down to one thing. We propose 10 billion in general grants to the local government sector. The net of what the Moderates are proposing is 4 billion less. How can it be better for Sweden's municipalities and county councils?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1337	Mr President, I would like to We have already established that this is not true. The Moderates add more money net. I also reacted a little to what was said about a job-creating budget. There are even people externally who note that your budget does not contribute to more jobs but, on the contrary, fewer. Since the Moderates also add more money to the welfare and, above all, general state subsidies, the big problem is that the state overwhelms a lot of costs on the municipalities. Then you can have general grants that allow municipalities to decide on the basis of local conditions. But if the state continues to roll over costs, as Niklas Karlsson knows, while the Migration Agency and other government agencies do not pay what they owe the municipalities and let the municipalities take the fall, I would like to ask Niklas Karlsson the following question: What do the Social Democrats and the government intend to do about this? If you continue to roll over the costs, it doesn't really matter how much money you contribute to the municipalities. If at the same time you do the little ugly business of dumping costs on the municipalities that the state itself should take care of, it is not really fair. What will Niklas Karlsson do if, once you do this, you don't even pay for yourself as you have agreed?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1341	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and Anette Åkesson well have the habit and the falsity of the alliance government that as soon as they speak we say, because they had preference for interpretation even for the other bourgeois parties. In this House, you do not have to do so. We don't agree. And we have not established that you are spending more money on the local government sector than the government is, because you are not. You can figure that out. You are only talking about expenditure, but you are not talking about the net. You do not account for the savings and cuts you make. Then it is true, Anette Åkesson, that the Moderates have 4 billion less to the local government sector than the government has. Nevertheless, there is reason to be slightly impressed by the newly awakened concern that the state is rolling over the costs of the municipal sector that Anette Åkesson shows. For eight years we have lived with a bourgeois alliance government that has done just that. I can only say that we have now put forward a budget which means that new jobs are growing and unemployment is falling. Employment has increased by 120 000 over the last two years, we are approaching 6% unemployment and the forecast is that we will have 87 000 more jobs in welfare. This will, of course, produce results. But at the same time we say that it is possible that this will not be enough for the challenges that exist in the welfare sector in municipalities and county councils. This requires new resources and not what the Moderates are proposing – cuts and savings.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1346	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Karlsson mentions many good things about the whole country to live and about empowerment. Everyone in this House shares the view that it is good for Sweden and for everyone if you can have the power to control your own life. In a word, Niklas Karlsson does not mention what creates the conditions for municipal welfare, namely work and entrepreneurship. That is the basis for our prosperity in the country. Does Niklas Karlsson think that it will be better for the municipalities in the countryside and in the interior of Norrland if you introduce distance taxes, kilometre taxes and air taxes? Will it promote the situation of municipalities in the hinterland to do so? Will it promote the situation of removing Inland innovation, which has a special risk capital for the inland municipalities of Norrland? We have problems all over the world, and also in Sweden, with globalisation and division of society. I do not think that this is a contribution Sweden's municipalities, especially in rural and sparsely populated areas, really need. We will have general state grants to equalise the different conditions, but what municipalities want is fair conditions for creating jobs in rural areas. You can't live in the countryside unless there's a job there. I therefore wonder what Niklas Karlsson thinks needs to be done. Does taxes create better conditions? And what does Niklas Karlsson think about regional tax bases? We have tried to highlight this as an opportunity for rural municipalities – where things are produced – to benefit from the benefits that rural areas bring.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1351	Mr President, I would like to After the superlative Peter Helander has honored me in this debate and the superlatives I have honored in my line shift should be the conditions for us to sit down and talk. I believe that there is much in the Center Party – that is, the People's Movement Centre, with its view of the general state subsidies, the investments in the local government sector and the importance of the whole country living – and what it stands for that coincides with the views of the Social Democracy and the Government. Helander and the Center Party find more points of contact there than their alliance government, I would say. I guess it's a journey we have to make, and we'll have to get back to it. Having said that, there is perhaps a lot to say about what the Center Party is proposing in its budgetary option. I was quite kind in a previous line shift, but let's pick up that thread and discuss what Peter Helander now brings up in addition to what has already been said. I would say that you understand the importance of municipal self-determination and the general state subsidies to the municipalities, Peter Helander. But while you support the government's welfare billions, you want to slaughter the targeted state subsidies to the municipalities. Medical care is taking a hit by cutting subsidies to public health and health care by 1.6 billion. The elderly are losing 2.3 billion in targeted state subsidies, and the school is losing 1.4 billion in targeted grants. Our fastest growing municipalities lose 1.8 billion in increased government subsidies to meet the initial costs associated with a high build rate. In total, the Centre Centre cut the appropriations for the local government sector by over 8 billion net. And that's not enough; at the same time, you want to start securing people out of health insurance. As we know, it is a previously tested policy that has the consequence of transferring large groups from state-funded health insurance to municipal support. Thus, with the policy of the Centre Party, municipalities should take over a larger part of the social security system but at the same time receive less support from the state. It feels, after Anette Åkesson's speech, that the Moderates and Centers have a lot to talk about.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1356	Mr President, I would like to The talk about cutting down is classical rhetoric. Because we do not agree to your increases in the budget, it is said that we are cutting back. We spend money on jobs and entrepreneurship – what creates long-term sustainability for the whole country, including rural and sparsely populated areas. That's how you create long-term sustainability. I would like to return to the reports from the Swedish National Audit Office, the European Commission and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs, which were a party submission. It states that the government's forecast requires significant reductions in municipal welfare by 2020 and that, if the government's own forecast is realised, there will be significant reductions in welfare by 2020. The Swedish National Audit Office and also other institutes ask what we have to choose from. Is it large tax increases or state subsidies, or – of course – the third option, which is cuts in welfare? Which of the alternatives do the Social Democrats and Niklas Karlsson choose? The last question I have concerns the fall in unemployment. That is quite correct. Niklas Karlsson probably also knows what the division of that curve looks like. For whom does unemployment fall? Well, it falls to men like me – white older men who always get jobs. For those without upper secondary education, for the elderly and for those with foreign background, nothing falls, but there unemployment increases. That division must be taken care of. How do you do that? Yes, you do that by creating the conditions to get more jobs in Sweden. There were two questions to Niklas Karlsson.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1360	Mr President, I would like to If I do not really answer the questions, it is not because of unwillingness but because I see them as somewhat unclear. I'm still gonna give it a try. Let me start with the National Audit Office, Peter Helander, because you stick to it. There are different authorities that have different missions. The Institute of Economic Development has a clear mission to assess the economic situation and includes both economic development and unemployment. The Swedish National Audit has a slightly different mission, and I think it has gone beyond this when an assessment of the state's budget has been made in the past. Apart from what is found, I believe that we as parties should discuss whether that is reasonable. I don't think Peter Helander would have wanted that order either if we had had a center party government. However, we can talk about that later. When it comes to whether we have to choose how the local government sector will meet its challenges in the coming years, Peter Helander asks the small rhetorical question: Is it through efficiency improvements, increased government grants or job growth through tax revenues? The answer to that should reasonably be all of the above. All three things will be needed, but in what order and in what quantities it is probably difficult to say today. The first is, of course, to ensure that jobs grow. It is about achieving the goal of full employment and giving people the ability and the ability to support themselves – and thus contributing to welfare by paying taxes. This is the first part of the social contract we have talked about before in this House. At the same time, the state has, of course, a responsibility for municipalities and county councils being able to deliver well-being of good quality. There are state subsidies as an important factor, not least in terms of municipal economic equalisation. It is about making welfare equal and that people should feel secure no matter where in the country they live – in Peter Helander's municipality of residence in Dalarna or in my municipality of residence Landskrona in Skåne. The third is that the local government sector must of course constantly think about how it uses its resources and works with efficiency efficiency.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1366	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's economy is doing well, but it is far from everyone who can take part in it. For a long time, gaps have increased. There have never been more Swedish billionaires than there are today, and they are also richer than ever. There are many of us around Sweden who want an economic policy that is for everyone and that settles up with inequality. It is with this in our backs that we in the Left Party have entered into budget negotiations with the government, and we have achieved reform after reform that makes life better for ordinary citizens. We increase the maintenance allowance for single parents, and we make it cheaper for older people to go to the dentist. For children, we have introduced free medicine and benefits for glasses. No one should have to look bad just because your parents have a tough financial situation. That is an example. As a left-wing party, I am proud of the fine equality reforms we have achieved, but we need to be more pressing to tackle the great inequality. There is a need for a policy that takes seriously the problems of the economic divides. Sweden needs an economic policy for everyone, not just the richest. On 23 February, the Left Party on DN D ebatt wrote that we demanded 10 billion for welfare. Our demand was and is that it is time to raise the level of ambition. With 10 new billion to municipalities and county councils, you could hire more in health care, care and school. The money is enough for about 7 000 social security secretaries, 8 000 preschool teachers and 8 000 nurses. In other words, it accounts for about 25,000 of your services in the welfare sector. Well-being today has great needs. The children's groups in preschool are too large, the differences in knowledge in school are growing and the staff in health care are in many cases overloaded. From 2017, the municipal and county councils sector will receive SEK 10 billion in increased funding. The addition is permanent, and it is the largest addition to the general state subsidies since they were introduced in 1993. It provides opportunities to employ more people in the school system, health care and care. During the first few years, the municipalities and county councils that have received the most asylum seekers and new arrivals will receive a little more money than the others. With 10 new welfare billions to municipalities and county councils, you can hire more. More employees are A and O if you are going to do quality improvements. A major problem today is that many educated teachers and social secretaries leave their jobs because they do not feel able to do a good job with today's working conditions. With more employees, working conditions will improve. To solve the enormous recruitment needs that welfare faces in the coming decades, we need to raise the salaries of nurses and other occupational groups. But pay is not the only factor that is important to your job. It is just as important that you can feel proud of your work. Anyone who hooks under an unreasonable workload rarely goes home from work filled with professional pride. The investment of 10 billion to welfare was not at the negotiating table when the government met the Left Party. But on 4 April we announced that we agreed with the government. That is why the Left Party is a responsible opposition party that cooperates and makes a difference. For the Left, it is not possible to support a budget without spending on welfare and investment. It is far from obvious that we always manage to get along with the government in the negotiating room. It is all about how much redistribution policy and welfare efforts we manage to push forward. It simply makes the welfare of Sweden better. Reinfeldt's government drained welfare on resources. In some way, 140 billion in tax cuts must be financed. During the period of the bourgeois regime, support for municipalities and county councils was eroded. In 2007 – 2014 general government subsidies decreased by half a billion in constant prices, while the population grew very strongly. This trend compares with the period before, 2000 – 2007, when general government grants at constant prices increased by SEK 17 billion. So there is a difference between right and left in Swedish politics. Everything in Swedish welfare is governed by private companies that are there to make profits. Instead of caring for students and the elderly, it is the quest for money that governs. The results can be seen every day around us. The Left Party rejects welfare gains. It is time to free the school, care and care from the interest of profit so that we have a well-being that we can trust. Today, several billion of what we pay in taxes to welfare is spent on private profits. In addition, profits often go to venture capital companies that do their best to evade tax. When the owners pick up profits while the preschool children get water and hard bread, it shows what the prize hunt leads to. If one day the business is not profitable, the owner can let it go bankrupt. Such bankruptcies already affect tens of thousands of students. What costs the most money in welfare is the staff. Therefore, it is no wonder that it is usually the staff companies save on to make their profit. For example, private elderly care has 10 per cent fewer staff than municipal staff. In upper secondary schools, private upper secondary schools have 17 per cent higher teacher density than municipal schools. There will be less time for the older and less time for the students as an effect. This sometimes also leads to staff being paid less and less educated than their colleagues. In addition, lower staff density increases the stress on employees. There are fewer full-time jobs and fewer permanent jobs in the private sector compared to the public sector. Surveys among the members of Kommunal show that among those who have worked both in private and in public elderly care, about twice as many preferred the terms of the public compared to the private. The issue of welfare gains is also a question of how we view each other and of society. When we go to the health centre, we want to be sure that we are treated based on what we need, not on how profitable we are. When our children start school, we want them to meet as students, not as customers or at worst as profit opportunities. Where profit thinking governs, our relationships with each other are affected. Welfare should be a sanctuary from such. Now Ilmar Reepalu has submitted an investigation on 850 pages called Order and Management in Welfare, which has landed on the government table. The investigation proposes to introduce a permit requirement for all legal persons to carry out publicly funded welfare activities and to introduce a regulation aimed at using public funds for the activities for which they are intended. Any profits shall be reinvested in the business. This means that we will have many different performers to choose from but at the same time avoid the pursuit of winnings. We also want careful assessments and democratic decisions to be made when activities are to be started for tax money. That is not the case today. That is why I and the Left Party hope that we will soon be able to ensure that welfare is not for sale so that we can have a well-being that can be trusted. I support the proposal, which also supports the 10 left-wing billions.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1384	Mr President, I would like to It was a comprehensive speech with many things to agree with and many fine words: a policy for everyone, and a welfare we can trust. I note that the Left Party is not discussing LSS activities in any words or in any sense. Now that we are just you and I in this House this late in the evening, I would like to say a few words about that. We know that in the common budget made by the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party, the list of LSS has been reduced to 25. We, as Christian Democrats, reject it and want to spend more money on it, 150 million SEK. I have the vision that people can do wrong. They can overlook things, misinterpret things and end up in situations that they don't really think are to fill. I would like to believe that the Left Party has ended up in a situation where it does not really want to be. In LSS it says about the right to efforts to get help with their way of life. Those who depend on the LSS probably also want us to have a policy for everyone. They probably also want us to have a well-being that we can trust. I can buy if the Left Party here and now says: This was wrong. We hook arms with the Alliance and tell them it was all wrong and do something about it. We'll get the government to rework this part. It would be a policy for everyone. It would be a welfare we can trust and even those who use the LSS. If you're ready to take the outstretched hand, I'm very happy. Then we can go on Christmas holidays knowing that the others who need LSS can also be safe.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1390	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Larry Söder! That is a very important question. It is quite right that I should perhaps have raised the ta in my speech. One could say this: had the Left Party not been involved in the budget negotiations, it would have been worse. Then it would have been even worse for those who have LSS support. The Left Party has long stood up for the LSS as a right and will do so for a long time to come. We have taken committee initiatives in the Social Affairs Committee to change the regulatory letter that the Government has sent to Försäkringskassan, which states that the costs of LSS should be reduced. We have participated in an up-to-date debate on the LSS issue, which I believe was requested by the Christian Democrats, and we have written debate articles and in other ways participated actively in the debate. It is clear that there are great similarities between the views of the Christian Democrats, the Left Party and the Liberals on the LSS. Unfortunately, it is not shared in the same way by other parties in this House. When we made a committee initiative and had an opportunity to get a majority in the Social Committee, the Moderates backed out. They felt so afraid to support a left-wing proposal. The next day they came up with a desire to do something about it. We also see how the government describes LSS as costs rather than as the right reform it is. We must fight for this together every day in this House and in all other forums. I think it's good that Larry Söder raises these issues. I know he has good support from the Left Party spokesperson on the issues. We're not going to give up. The LSS is a rights reform, and it should continue to be so. I am very concerned about the developments we have. We will fight for the LSS to be a right.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1396	Mr President, I would like to It can be said that the letter of regulation that has expired will create a problem in next year's budget. There will be a list of expenditure lower than it was in this year. This means undermining the LSS support in a disadvantageous way for those who need help in their way of life, as it says. They are very good that the Left Party is so clearly pointing out that it is against this part. Friend of order gets very curious about how the Left Party in the discussion with the government about the budget made changes in this regard that made it less bad than it looked from the beginning. I would like an answer to that. Here it is clear that the Left Party has missed in its negotiations and that it could not be seen that it could have this effect for those who need LSS. These people are usually helped by municipalities that take heavy costs. I think that the state should also be involved in taking part in the costs. We must ensure this in next year's budget as well. I would like the Left Party to tell us clearly what it was in the negotiation that you removed and which makes this less evil for those who receive the LSS next year than it might otherwise have looked like. For those who are entitled to help with their way of life, this is a slap in the face.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1401	Mr President, I would like to I would like to answer Larry Söder's question, but unfortunately we are not telling you about how our negotiations are conducted and what is happening in them. We've done the best we can. We've fought hard, and we've fought for the LSS. It is an important issue for us in the Left Party, just as it is for the Christian Democrats. However, we do not write regulatory letters. The government does. It is the responsibility of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, and it is they who should be held accountable for the sentences that are there. I agree that it is important for the state to assume its responsibilities. If you are entitled to more than 20 hours of LSS, it is a state responsibility; if you have more than 20 hours, it is a municipal responsibility. We see that this type of problem also exists in other areas where the state and the municipality partially share costs and simply push costs between themselves. That is something that we as politicians need to take a little more overall responsibility for and look over. Is it really supposed to be this way? Is it reasonable for people to get caught in various ways and get decisions that will be crucial to them when it comes to few hours? That is something I think we need to look at in the future. I hope that we will keep up the pressure on this issue now that we have got it moving. Above all, we have had pressure in it after the budget was put on Parliament's table. We need to hold this all spring, all autumn and the entire term of office if necessary. I hope that the Left Party and the Christian Democrats can help each other.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1405	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling usually talks about this with tax revenue during the alliance period. I was going to take the opportunity to inform Håkan Svenneling and any listeners that according to the Swedish Tax Agency, tax revenues in Sweden increased overall every year under the alliance government apart from the year 2009, which was marked by the global financial crisis. With regard to the municipal tax, i.e. the income that goes directly to the municipalities and county councils, tax revenues increased every year without exception. It is the municipalities and county councils that carry out the important activities that are traditionally described as welfare, i.e. school, health care and care. This means that during the time of the Alliance, tax revenues increased to welfare every year, and this according to the Swedish Tax Agency. The Left Party has a unique situation in Swedish politics that is known to exploit in all possible ways. You are both in opposition and involved in the budget, which also means that you have to take responsibility for the budget. According to external actors and different people, the budget that is now in place for decisions is anti-job and anti-growth. It has been mentioned in different contexts. The question is: How do the Left Party and Håkan Svenneling think that the number of jobs should increase, or rather continue to increase? It is, of course, thanks not least to alliance reforms and the economic cycle that job growth is already a fact. But how does the Left Party think that it will all be done in order for municipalities to continue to have increased tax revenues that will contribute with funding?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1408	Mr President, I would like to I was talking about state subsidies and not about tax revenues. That is right, what Anette Åkesson says: Tax revenues increased during the period that Reinfeldt was in power, and so did inflation. However, state subsidies were not listed. It does, as Anette Åkesson said, that the 3 or 10 billion is a way of compensating for previous lists that have been missing. There is a big difference between having inflation figures at all and adding 10 billion to welfare. I think it is a clear dividing line in Swedish politics. I must say that I am pleased that the Moderates and the Center Party in some sense still accept the 10 billion to welfare and see that they are needed. Not all bourgeois parties do so in the same way. The Left Party is an opposition party that is clear. We are very critical of the government. Just before this line shift, I discussed LSS with Larry. It is an area in which we have been critical of the government's way of dealing with the issue. There are also many other policy areas where we disagree with the government. But we negotiate and cooperate with the government, because we want to make it better for individuals in their everyday lives. Therefore, it means a lot to us that we get through reform after reform that makes a difference. But we are not making a budget with the government that is in any way anti-growth. I debated business earlier this week. Of course, bourgeois representatives were concerned; that is the role of the opposition. But the budget is by no means anti-growth. We see an increase in employment and a decline in unemployment. Last Monday a decision was made by Billerud Korsnäs to invest 5.7 billion in a new cardboard paper machine in Grums, Värmland. This is the biggest investment Värmland has had in a very long time. It will secure jobs, and it will ensure competitiveness for a long time. I've met the site manager of Gruvöns mill in Grums. It is not that they are going around worrying about what policy we are pursuing in the budget, and that also applies to other entrepreneurs. That's not what they're worried about.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1413	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by doing what I have missed so far in both speeches and previous lines: I would like to support the moderate particular opinion. The Moderates even add more than the government and the Left Party to the municipalities and welfare. At the same time, we are concerned that costs are passed on to the state. Let's look at these 10 billions. I was into this a little bit earlier. In concrete terms, what Håkan Svenneling says is that there is a lot of talk about 10 billion, but in concrete terms it is 3 billion that goes into the equalisation system and 7 billion that will cover the increased costs of the refugee situation. But at the same time you are in all kinds of areas: There should be more people employed, as I was in the past. An increase in employers' contributions is to be compensated. Sickness costs have increased, to which various policy decisions have contributed. Money should be used to improve the working environment. So these, in concrete terms, 3 billion are to be used for a great many different things. Niklas Karlsson was previously convinced that it is the municipalities that decide because these are general state grants. But it still feels more like there is a lot of talk and that in the end it will not be very concrete. The money is distributed to a lot and will be sufficient.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1417	Mr President, I would like to That's 10 billion and no 3 billion. The municipalities that have taken greater responsibility for refugees will benefit to a greater extent from the 7 billion. We see moderate-governed municipalities that do not want to take responsibility for the refugees who have come but who instead want to protect themselves and do not build housing and do nothing at all. We have a distribution that gives you more money if you take greater responsibility, and it benefits municipalities that have a depressed economy in some places. First year, I think it's $7 billion. Then it drops to 5, and then it drops to 3 billion. It is such a stairway, but there will be a permanent increase in state subsidies of 10 billion to welfare. The responsibility for deciding what to do with this money is not with me or Anette Åkesson. It lies with the municipal and county politicians we have around Sweden. It is their responsibility to decide what the priority is. This is not a targeted bet that should go to things that I can stand here and point out. It's a general investment in welfare. That's 10 billion going straight into welfare. Anette Åkesson is worried about overwhelming. I was a municipal politician during the eight years Fredrik Reinfeldt was Prime Minister and we had a bourgeois government. Then we had the health insurance, which was one of the biggest overwhelms we have seen in modern times. The state passed on costs to sick people in the municipalities. This means that our cost in Karlstad's municipality for income support rose from 60 million to 90 million and topped up to 100 million. We also got a lot of other strange overwhelming. For example, we got an airport. The government said: We are probably only responsible for this airport at 75%. I think 25% is your responsibility. This meant that we had to take money from profits in other municipal companies, which would otherwise have gone back to welfare, to finance an airport because the state did not consider it to be its mission despite the fact that the airports as a whole were profitable. It was moderate politics when you overwhelmed costs. I don't want politics like that. Therefore, we should always be careful to pass on costs to the municipalities.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1423	Mr President, I would like to We are debating here tonight general grants to the municipalities, category 25. This is one of the most important areas that we have in the budget. Sweden's municipalities and county councils and the activities carried out for residents form the core of the Swedish welfare model. That is much of what gives us security and makes us proud to be citizens of our country. Here we look at the needs of the population and meet in a shared sense of responsibility. It is about education, about school and preschool where the children will spend many hours and learn for the rest of their lives. It is about care for the elderly, who will take care of all those who built up Sweden and do it in a dignified way every day. It is about health care, about quality and accessibility, about the person who becomes acutely ill receiving the care that it needs. It is about public transport, which gives us sustainability so that we can transport in an environmentally friendly way, and many other important activities. All of this is controlled from the municipal and county councils level, and what a fantastic job all employees in the operations do every day! This applies to all politicians, local leisure politicians, who are trying to get the scarce resources available as much as possible when they make budgets. This applies to teachers and carers who, in contact with students and users, do as much as they can only with the resources available. All the efforts made by everyone who works in the welfare sector are absolutely fantastic. But precisely because municipalities and county councils are at the heart of their well-being, the challenges for them are always great. The state's work here is about providing the best possible conditions, protecting the opportunities of municipalities and county councils to do their job well and providing them with the resources they need to meet the welfare challenge. I believe that the vast majority of people agree that the local government sector faces major challenges, including as a result of demographic change and the reception of new arrivals that we have had. Then it is incredibly important that municipalities and county councils have the basic prerequisites and the capacity to handle what they are facing. Workable staff and skills provision is one of the key factors in addressing the challenges that exist in many activities. That is why the message to the municipalities given in this budget is so important. Sweden should have high quality welfare that we can all trust, and the 10 billion annually that is now added as a permanent increase in state subsidies provides the conditions for long-term development of welfare based on the needs that you have locally. It creates opportunities for municipalities and county councils to employ more and strengthen health care, school and care. Let's see what the staff do around the country. We see what the staff wants, and the government wants to provide the conditions for doing the work. Therefore, billions are now being delivered to municipalities and county councils so that Sweden will continue to be able to provide good public service to its citizens.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1433	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Rasmus Ling! That's a lot of nice words. You want a budget that looks after the needs of the population. You want high-quality welfare that can be trusted. I tried to ask the Social Democrats a question about the LSS. The Left Party, as I asked, said that it is the government itself that has come up with the deteriorations that are affecting people who are actually in need of the LSS. I would say that they also want a well-being that can be trusted. They want the right to efforts to get help with their way of life. You have said in your regulatory letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency that you should reduce the number of hours. You have not listed the expenditure area of the LSS to the extent used. I ask Rasmus Ling: Does the government think that these people are not in need of high-quality welfare?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1437	Mr President, I would like to LSS is one of the rights laws we have in this country that we should be proud of and safeguard, also long-term. This is a very important but also difficult discussion. If we are to safeguard this system in the long term, we also need to look at how it works over time. We have seen that the cost of LSS has doubled in the last ten years. In order to safeguard the system, we need to see how it can be sustainable also in the long term. An investigation has been set up by Larry Söder's party partner Désirée Pethrus to review the operation of the LSS. That work is incredibly important. We need to see how this system can function in order for all who have the need to be able to have it met. At the same time, we have seen the need for a more rigorous assessment. There have been problems in this – incorrect incentives for the healthcare companies that have performed LSS. Against this background, in order to safeguard the system, we have had to carry out such a review.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1441	Mr President, I would like to I respect the fact that an investigation is being set up to review some of the legislation that you may feel you need to keep an extra eye on. What I do not respect is that you really go ahead of the investigation itself and make changes before the investigation is completed, as has actually been done in this case. It has been told to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency that it pays out for many hours in the LSS. The costs have been reduced in the budget before you have found out what the investigation really says. Wouldn't it be respectful of the investigation to back off? Shouldn't the government say, "No, we made a mistake here." We must first see what the investigation says. Then we take the measures to be taken, instead of throwing people out in a troubled time and saying that you cannot trust welfare? Is it really the Green Party's view to do this to people who need support and help with their way of life? Could that be possible, Rasmus Ling?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1445	Mr President, I would like to The Government has not made any changes to the law on special support and service. What we've done is set up an investigation. We have also said that the number of hours should be reduced, given that we have had a sharp increase over a long period of time that will not be sustainable. For the system to work in the longer term, we must break the development with very much higher costs that we have had. But we haven't made any changes to the LSS. We can also see that the current system has provided false incentives for the private health companies that have done this. Lawyers have often been employed to push forward, not on the basis of the user's needs, but because they have wanted to raise revenue to the company. That is not how the system should work, and that is why changes need to be made.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1449	Mr President, I would like to You might think it's a little strange that someone goes up alone in a debate like this. I just wonder whether the House is aware of the area in which the most frequent cases are located. It is not the budget, although there are long and hard debates on the budget. It is not monetary policy, although it is discussed quite often in this House. It is precisely financial market issues that are most important. That is all those cases during a vote in which there is only one motion, in which approval is sought. Sometimes, however, they should be mentioned. As far as financial market issues are concerned in general, everything has been pushed away by a button, and common rules are therefore necessary at European and, indeed, international level. A new regulatory framework, called Basel 3, is currently being discussed. This is important, and we in this House are almost always in agreement that it is good that these issues are at European level. They are well discussed when they come to Sweden. Sometimes we get very big, thorough government. For example, when there had been a lot of problems with the banks in Europe, a new regulatory framework came up which was dealt with at this time last year: the crisis management directive. This has meant that banks and other financial companies have had to take greater responsibility for their own business than they did in the past. A state cannot automatically go in and pay for a bank, but requires a few steps before that. This is an important matter in its own way. We sometimes talk about fair conditions – when it comes to workers, animal husbandry or perhaps other things. But this is really about fair terms. When you trade in securities, you should know that it is on fair terms. There should be no path that some have gone for having some more information. That is why, since the 1970s, we have had a regulatory framework for insider trading, and that is precisely what this is all about. There are really a few different regulations you look at. This concerns insider dealing, market manipulation and unauthorised disclosure of inside information. But don't we have a law on this? Why would we need a new one? Yes, there is a law on this, but it only targets criminal law. If the prosecutor finds that no inside crime has been committed, but that there has obviously been some fuffiness, one cannot do a single thing. That is why the new regulatory framework has been developed and, as in many other financial market regulations, sanctions are introduced. First of all, it is a completely new criminal law. The big, important thing is to change the penalties; the maximum sentence is raised from four to six years. This is the big change, and it is an adaptation to the acquis that exists at European level. The second is precisely that of sanctions. In cases where there is no intention of insider crime, sanctions can now be imposed. It may be that you are not allowed to sit on the board of an investment firm, do not trade in a particular type of security for a period of time or have to repay either the profit made or the loss avoided due to inside information. You can also get fines, and in mild cases you can correct them. This is, of course, a regulatory framework that we should safeguard. This also means an opportunity – we own almost all the different kinds of securities, not least through our pensions and by being recommended by our banks to invest in funds. That is why this is an important regulatory framework, Mr President, to which I warmly support it. Why, then, did I not go up on the subject I am now presenting, Additional provisions to the EU regulation on European long-term investment funds? Well, because it was only one thing, namely the so-called ELTIF regulation – that the Financial Supervisory Authority should monitor this. That's what happened, but it wasn't as important. However, this was important, so I am in favour of the proposal.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1461	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support Moderate motion 2016/ 17:2351 and otherwise refer to our specific opinion. There's a worry out there in the world. We have refugee flows of over 70 million people around our earth and various types of instability. There is also concern that economic imbalances will lead to a decline in the world economy. We ask ourselves with wonder and perhaps anxiety what policy will be pursued in the new USA and how this will be received by the world. In fact, we do not need to go further than Europe to see major questions in many states. Above all, this also applies to the east of Europe, in the Middle East. All of this will affect Sweden with great power, because we are so export dependent. Our pension system is strongly tied to the economy and how many hours worked we can obtain in Sweden. Our new pension system, which was introduced in the early 2000s and consolidated in the 1990s, is much more linked to precisely work. You earn your pension points and get your pension rights, crown for crown, up to a maximum level. In addition, there is no longer any lower or upper limit on how many years you can earn into a better pension. However, one thing needs to be emphasised more than once, as many still do not understand how the pension system works: today's workers pay through pension contributions today's pensions, and future workers pay future pensions. That's what we call the generation contract. We assume that our children and grandchildren will pay us pension contributions when we retire. There are still too many people who believe that their pension contributions have been paid into some AP funds where the money lies and waits for them until they retire. In order for future generations to have respect for the payment of pension contributions, it is essential that each generation pays separately and does not overwhelm the debts of future workers; the system must be seen as fair. This concerns contributions to the pension system and future pension ages, but also changes to the premium pension scheme. Although our pension system is so constructed that it holds different imbalances, it needs to be strengthened in order not to run the risk of balancing in normal economic downturns. That is why the various governments and the Pensions Group have set up a number of investigations to strengthen, clarify and simplify the pension system. We have a number of factors to consider. There will be fewer people working in the future in relation to pensioners. The pension should last longer, because we are getting older. We need to strengthen the asset side of the pension system. Therefore, the Pensions Group has a number of challenges ahead in terms of how to manage and strengthen the system. In addition, the Pensions Group has set up a study to look at how we can achieve more equal pensions, which is important. Mr President, I would like to It is important to point out that there is only one thing that can pay for pensions and provide stability for the foreseeable future: work. More people at work both earlier and later in life provide better pensions. The 40s generation has now largely retired, and this means that people are already missing in many workplaces, not least in health care. Now there are three workers on each pensioner. Already in 20 to 25 years' time, that figure will be close to two employees on each pensioner, unless the conditions change before then. Our Swedish pension system can withstand and is designed for this type of change, but the pension level risks being too low for many – especially for those who do not have enough occupational pension or started working at an early age. We must therefore, in future, have a more flexible system for the age at which you become a full-time pensioner. Mr President, I would like to The most important contribution we can make to raising pension levels is to introduce the proposals and principles of the pension age inquiry, in other words: that most people have the opportunity to work a few more years. This increases pensions considerably, except that people get a few more years of real pay. In addition, Sweden needs every worker who can make an effort. In order to clarify this otherwise, we can see what a difference there is now between young people who are entering the labour market. Many times you are almost 30 years old before you have your first full-time job, while 40 years ago most people started working already as 16-, 18- or 19-year-olds. It makes a difference. Mr President, I would like to We have a stable majority for our Swedish pension system. Today, six parties across the block are responsible for Sweden having a stable system that will withstand different pressures from demography, increases in middle age and strong cyclical fluctuations. Then my first question comes first and foremost to the Left. Since the introduction of the new pension system, you have often criticised this rhetorical approach, even in debate papers today, and have said that a completely new system should be introduced. Despite your loud words, you have not added any new money to pensions in this budget. In other words, it is not a real promise to pensioners but just a lot of words without substance. If I understand correctly, you are complaining about the levels of the pension system and want back a preferential system that can provide between 65 and 70% of the final salary. That sounds good, if you don't look at the financial consequences. This would mean that the pension system would have to be strengthened by several thousand billion if all people were to be included now and in the future. Do you know about that? I understand that it is a benevolent wishful thinking, but if you are a serious party, you must look at the consequences before you make such a proposal. Where are you going to take this money? Should the tax be increased to 60% for everyone, including pensioners? I would also like to ask the Swedish Democrats something. I note that this year, too, you have made a strong commitment to guarantee pensioners in your draft budget. That sounds kind and good to this group, which, I am sure, everyone would like to achieve. But I still don't understand how you get the equation together in practice. Everyone involved in pension issues knows that the difference in pensions and housing allowances between those with only guaranteed pensions and those with low income pensions is very small. These are sometimes just dog rings or a thousand. If you simply increase the guarantee pension, as you propose, the result will be that the net pension will be higher for a guarantee pensioner than for a low-paid income pensioner. What were you thinking there? Or didn't you think? Mr President, I would like to I can also note that as of the end of 2017, pension levels will increase for most groups. Both supplementary and income pensions increase by 2.8 per cent. This gives an old-age pensioner who has a pension of 14 000 SEK 362 more per month before tax or SEK 4,300 per year. A pensioner who has 16 000 in retirement receives 412 SEK before tax. This is a consequence of the fact that it went decent for Sweden a couple of years ago, because it is a few years behind. The guarantee pension is increased by approximately SEK 100, as it is the price base amount that governs the list here. I would also like to inform you that next year, the government part of the pension system will have a turnover of 34,774 million. In addition, the income pension system, which is estimated to have a turnover of more than SEK 300 billion, will be added. In total, the side-of-state system accounts for a total of 335 billion. It is the largest single item in our Swedish state budget. I would like to conclude my speech with three things that are very important for the pension system and determine future pensions: yes to stable public finances, yes to continued work and yes to a continued stable and sustainable pension system.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1479	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report SfU2 Economic security in old age. I thought it was fun to come here to Parliament today. Politics is fun. In the run-up to debates, it is often rewarding and stimulating to go through our own proposals as well as those of the government and the opposition. There is, of course, a common understanding of quite a few basic conditions in this area of expenditure. Then I don't mean that we think in principle, because we don't, thank God. I believe that it is rarely difficult to understand or even sometimes share the starting point of each party on many of these issues. That is a good basis for constructive debates. But politics is also very serious and irresponsible, not least when we talk about the situation of the elderly. Although politics is fun, it is not always as fun to look at reality, the reality that must form the basis for all decision-making, here as well as everywhere else. Mr President, I would like to What is on the table on this matter is not a cheerful sight. The conditions for our country's welfare are not the best. And I am afraid that it will unfortunately get even worse some time before it hopefully, with the right priorities, gets better. Today, nearly a quarter of a million older people live under economic conditions that the EU regards as poverty – a quarter of a million. Add it to another welfare that in large parts is not up to the mark. Add it care queues, neglect, food rationing in elderly care, general insecurity and so on. It's supposed to be old in this country, I was about to say. The Swedish democrats may have a rather special view of Sweden's older people. We look beyond the conventional plus and minus thinking of the budget. We see the elderly as a group of people that we actually owe something. We've talked about this before. They have created this country and our relative prosperity for us. They have given us the opportunity at all to stand here and talk about how we should allocate our common resources. They have given us our land – our heritage, if you will – for us to inherit. And without going too far into other policy areas, it is reasonable to mention here that there are very many other welfare consumers who cannot pride themselves on giving us our country. In addition to the fact that the Swedish Democrats, of course, share the view that all Swedes should have the right to a reasonable minimum level of survival, our older people actually deserve more than that. They deserve good economic conditions as well as respect and respect. We owe it to them. Mr President, I would like to Although it is not under this committee, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight once again the unfairness of the fact that pensioners still pay higher taxes than those who work. After all, pension and pension credits are also a kind of wage for work, even if the work itself was done long ago, in working life or at home. The current regime is unreasonable, for several reasons, and in a theoretical scenario in which the other parties in this House had chosen to vote on our budget some time ago, the tax differential between wage earners and pensioners would have been 0% in two and a half weeks, on 1 January 2017. It would have made a difference for Sweden's pensioners. The second really big investment we make for older people is a real boost for our guarantee pensioners. Guarantee pensioners are older people who, for some reason, have not been employed to a degree that gives them the right to a regular pension. A typical guarantee pensioner is a woman who has worked unremuneratedly with homes and children for much of her life. We believe that home work was an important part, even a prerequisite, of Sweden's social and economic success in the last century. The Swedish democrats believe that these women, and, of course, also men, are worth a better economic situation in the autumn of their age. We therefore want to allocate funds to increase the guarantee pension properly. It is simply an effective way of reaching a group that we know is particularly tricky today. With our investment of about SEK 3 billion per year, a guarantee pensioner, depending on marital status, would receive 700 – 800 SEK more in his wallet per month. Yes, we in the Swedish Democrats have chosen to spend a great deal of resources on the elderly in our budget. It's about principles-- honor, respect, and so on-- but also that we actually believe that it's something that, in the long run, benefits us all. I sometimes hear objections to this approach. Not least, I see opposition to this approach in the budgets of the government and other parties as well. It is, at first sight, a pure cost to carry out such reforms. That's why you don't do it. We Swedish democrats do not see it quite that way. We know that people with small economic margins make extensive use of any economic input for consumption – it is consumption that benefits both employment and growth. But we also believe that a society that takes care of the elderly in a dignified way is a better society. It's a society that's better. I can already say that the situation of the quarter of a million elderly people living in poverty with EU terms in particular will be a very important issue for us Swedish democrats in the electoral movement and for the forthcoming formation of government in less than two years from now. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 2.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1495	Mr President, I would like to I listened for a long time to Linus Bylund's speech and waited a little bit for him to explain to me how the Swedish Democrats think. Everyone knows that we have a large pension system that is independent and that goes according to pension entitlements. That is how the new pension system is set up. Many other states have a common system. It's a whole state system-- that's the usual. But in Sweden we have chosen to do this. You choose to spend money on the guarantee pension, which is the state part, the small part. How do you get it together if you raise this? Of course, I have respect for that. This really wants all parties that are part of the Pensions Group and so on. We live by trying to increase the guarantee pension, and the housing supplement is gradually raised. But you have to explain to me how you have thought about the income pensioners, who, I understand, do not get an increase in your proposal. Should guarantee pensioners have a higher pension than those who have worked as nurses throughout their lives?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1498	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I do not think there are many such cases. We have talked about this before, and I have absolutely no doubt that it exists. But I do not believe that the overlap is as great as is claimed. Of course, you need to look at how people living under such conditions, even though they have a real pension, so to speak, can do better. However, it should not be forgotten that much of the contribution – we are spending EUR 6 billion on this – comes back in the form that people are no longer eligible for, for example, housing allowance and other things. This means that the amount may be around 3 billion each year. As I said, we have talked about this before. I've looked into it more closely. I do not feel that the potential overlap would be so great that it is a problem that cannot be solved. But of course I'm open to having that discussion in a longer context to really understand what you mean, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1502	Mr President, I would like to Then it was just as I feared. You haven't done your homework properly. The consequences have not been considered. Then I can inform Mr Bylund that the mere guarantee pensioners are now about 68 000. So it is the group that may have never been out in the world of work. It is a fairly large group that has both a guarantee pension and a small income pension. It's a really big group. Of course, the largest group is the one living on income pension. I can tell Mr Bylund what it would be like if the proposal from the Swedish Democrats were to go through. Then a large group – if we include the housing allowance, to which many are entitled in this group, especially female pensioners who have earned poorly – would receive a lower pension than those who have a guarantee pension. I think the last thing Linus Bylund said was good, namely that he should go home and do his homework and come back and do the right thing.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1505	Mr President, I would like to We're gonna do our homework together, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng and I. Nevertheless, I must point out something if it is now so important for the Moderates to strengthen the guarantee pensioners. I think that there is a great deal of light on the absence of this in your budget and in your proposals. It doesn't really rhyme, I think.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1506	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start with what concerns the government's report on the results of this draft budget, because it conveys what it means by providing information to pension savers. Providing information to our pension savers is extremely important. In this context, the Pension Agency has really done a good job. It's important. But we need to do much more. It is important for our pension system, for the credibility and for the activity of our pension savers that we know how our pension system works. We in the Center Party are extremely concerned about this. We believe that information needs to be started on many different levels. This applies, among other things, to maternal care. Then one might wonder: What does parental insurance and childbirth have to do with pensions? Our pension system is based on having an income in order to receive a pension. This means that the occupational pension and the premium pension in the future are very important for us to get money when we become pensioners. In other words, it is important that new employees ask their employers: Are you paying into the occupational pension scheme? We must also ensure that those with the lowest pensions today receive a higher pension. Who, then, has the low pensions? Yes, you might wonder. I can tell you that. You know that parental leave is distributed very differently. Then you all know who's going to lose. There are young people today who are not entering the labour market. There are new arrivals who will have to wait an extremely long time to get their first job. They're the losers. They have the lowest pensions. That is why we in the Center Party say: It is important that we get into the labour market quickly. That's what Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng said from the Moderates. It's about you as a new arrival to start working the first day you're here. There should be entry-level jobs for young people and new arrivals and entry companies for new arrivals, so that they can start making money right away. It's important. It is not enough just to raise the retirement age, as we in the Pensions Group are now proposing. But it's something that's very important. I and the Center Party want us to make a quick decision to raise the retirement age. Mr President, I would like to We in the Pensions Group are also working on other important issues, and these issues concern gender equality. The Pensions Group is working to ensure that we receive equal pensions. Women are currently the ones who lose the most in the pension system and who have the lowest incomes. We need to change this, because this is a gender equality problem. We have appointed nine different studies that have looked at different parts to see what affects gender equality and the conditions for giving women a higher pension. I can tell you here that we in the Center Party, among other things, want to take on board some of these proposals. This includes sharing pension rights, reducing the compliance index and making a division of the premium pension compulsory– it is currently voluntary. Now I have revealed what we are happy to include in the negotiations in the Pensions Group. It is important to make this clear. And last but not least, all the proposals I have now mentioned are, in fact, only cosmetics in the pension system. The real problems, I would say, are three: to increase the pay of women's dominated professions, to enable immigrants and young people to enter the labour market quickly and to share parental and parental leave. Mr President, I would like to However, we must also do something about today's pensioners, because the second is about tomorrow's. We from the Center Party want the guarantee pensioners to receive a higher pension. It is not just about spending on the income you have, it is also about looking at what pensioners are paying for their pension. Today, we know that municipalities charge different fees for home care, travel services, food distribution and all that is associated with being self-sufficient for as long as possible when you are a pensioner. This distinguishes several hundred SEK in terms of different expenses in the municipalities. We must look at this and correct it. Mr President, I would like to I call, of course, for the government's budget to be rejected, but I support the Center Party's budget motion. I am in favour of reservation 1 in paragraph 2 and refer to the Special Opinion of the Centre Party.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1519	Mr President, I would like to Nearly a quarter of a million pensioners in Sweden live below the EU poverty threshold of SEK 10 800, according to the Swedish Pension Agency. Most of them are women, most with only a very low guarantee pension. In addition, among pensioners, a larger proportion of women report that they remain in a relationship not for love but mainly for economic reasons. This is partly due to the fact that women work part-time and that women's work is not valued as much as men's, and that they are not paid for all their work, but it is also because women have taken greater responsibility for their homes and children. Most people look forward to quitting work, especially if they have had a hard and physical job. The trick is to survive on your pension. Today's pension system is not capable of providing decent pensions to people. Therefore, the Left Party believes that it should be investigated how to address the under-financing, but it is also important to pursue a policy of full employment. The Left Party, as you know, is not part of the Pensions Group which has given us the pension system that we are discussing here and now. We therefore have no responsibility for the current situation, where every other woman will not be able to live on her pension. But we are prepared to take responsibility and find different types of solutions. The pension is lower for people who work part-time, who have periods of illness and unemployment or who, when they get older, are unable to work until 65 or 67 years of age. This is specifically a class issue. As a result of the large difference in life's income, the economic gap is growing among pensioners. Women pensioners today receive on average only 65% of men's pensions. This is a system that has created poor pensioners, which contributes to growing gaps and is based on speculation. The Left Party wants to remove the premium pension system. It's a bad idea to let people speculate on their pension money on the stock market. This is also an expensive system that costs a lot of money in management fees. If the contribution to PPM of 2.5% had been added to the income pension scheme from the outset, the reduction in pensions – or what is usually called the brake – could have been avoided in recent years. The contribution to the premium pension scheme should therefore be added to the income pension scheme. The Left Party wants to remove the so-called brake in the pension system. The brake is the automatic balancing that means that the liabilities of the pension system must not exceed the assets of the system. This means that when the stock exchange is failing, it has an impact on the size of the income pension. When this pension system was launched, it was assured that the brake would only strike in extreme cases, but the fact is that it has already been activated three times since 2010. In short, if the money in the pot is not enough, pensions will be reduced, and it is this scenario that is called the brake. The pension group has certainly slightly adjusted the brake on the pension system, and the chairman of the group, Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll, has explained that they have thereby created a more robust pension system. The left side says the system is not robust until the brake is completely gone. It goes without saying that pensions should follow wage developments instead of stock market developments. We are quite unique in Sweden, where we invest pension money on the stock exchange. Those who have heavy and laborious jobs must be guaranteed a decent pension. Women should not be disadvantaged. In addition, the pension system must become more predictable; with the current system it is difficult to understand in advance how much you will receive in retirement. Mr President, I would like to Despite what I have mentioned, the Left Party is trying to do things that improve the economy of pensioners, not least for those with the lowest incomes. The Left Party wants everyone, regardless of income type, to pay the same amount of tax. We have reduced taxes on pensioners twice, together with the government, most for those with the lowest pensions. We have increased the housing allowance for pensioners. We've shot up 2 billion to more employees in the care of the elderly. We have received SEK 10 billion annually to the municipalities for better welfare. We've got a budget for raising skills in the care of the elderly.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1531	We have tried to get the government to increase the guarantee pension but unfortunately not succeeded, at least not this time. We need to create a long-term, sustainable and reliable pension system. The Left Party wants a pension system that is safe and solidarity-based and managed cost-effectively. We want a parliamentary inquiry into pensions with the task of creating a stable, predictable, equal and equal pension system. In this way, we want to give back power over the pension issue to Parliament. The current system is undemocratic, because the transparency of the group's work is, to say the least, inadequate and determined by the Pensions Group itself. That is why I am in favour of reservation 6.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1534	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, I suspect, and I have heard it before, that there is a long wish list, a real Santa Claus list, with improvements in the pension system costing the pension system thousands of billions if all these things were to become reality. I wrote something down. One would fully compensate those who work part-time, one would take responsibility, one would compensate those who are unable to work right up to 65, the pensioners would have 60-70% of their previous salary and one would also remove the premium pension system. All this costs money, but it also has another consequence that I think you have not thought about. The pension system costs fees, but it is a small part. In fact, it yields far more than the usual income pension system. The usual income pension scheme has decommitted about 2.5 per cent, while the premium pension scheme has so far decommitted 6.3 per cent. What does that mean? In practice, this means that all young people, such as those born in the 70s, 80s and 90s, would receive a pension which, according to the Pension Authority, is 2 000 – 3 000 lower if we were to destroy the premium pension scheme. That's the consequence. You're taking money from future generations. That would be the consequence if we were to remove the premium pension scheme. If we remove the brake, someone will pay for this. You'll probably have to take in the tax route, and then we'll have a huge increase in taxes. The kind of system that you promise is bankruptcy economy.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1538	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng it is almost that you think that we have always had this pension system. It's not like that. After all, we have had another pension system that was much more predictable, so you could know what you would get in retirement when you stopped working. It is the system that we now have that has created more and more poor pensioners and increased the gaps even more. As I said in my speech, one of the most important things is that women have had to take a much greater responsibility for homes and children. That is why the Left Party has proposed individualised parental insurance. The Christian Democrats have chosen a different path, namely a policy that should keep women at home even more. What does Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng think will have consequences for women's pensions in the future?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1541	Mr President, I would like to It becomes so inconsistent here because the Left Party has not given a single penny more in the budget for pensions. Yet one pretends to be able to do both, and if one obtains one's own majority, one could add as many thousands of billions as one might wish – something that, of course, is not possible. In fact, the bourgeois alliance government lowered the tax five times. The tax was 16.4 billion higher in 2006 than it was when we resigned in 2014, so it is actually lower. If we were to introduce everything that Rossana Dinamarca says, it would affect the labour market, the economy and other things. I do not want to compare with other countries, but there are a large number of countries around the world that have implemented this kind of policy. There, the employees cannot even afford to buy food at the moment – I am thinking above all of South America. It's about running the economy. This is the best way for pensioners to receive long-term pensions. As regards the fact that there will not be any deterioration in the future, we in the Pensions Group have a number of proposals that we are working on, including the pension age study, but also other things that will enable you to get better pensions. We also take the issue of equal pensions very seriously. It is actually one of our main points on the agenda.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1546	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng says that the Left Party does not put a single crown in the budget for the system we wish for. Now there is a retirement group. It does not include the Left Party. We are in a significant minority in this case. However, as I said in my speech, we have done a lot of things to improve for pensioners. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng represented a bourgeois government that raised taxes for pensioners and made a distinction between pensioners and those who work. We are correcting this. That is why we have reduced the tax burden on the poorest pensioners in two rounds now. You made pensioners pay higher taxes while you reduced the tax by SEK 140 billion, which, above all, benefited high-paid men. There is a big difference between you and our policy. And I think it is quite clear to most people that the words of the KD about doing something for pensioners are just empty words.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1551	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals' framework budget has, of course, fallen in a previous vote. We will therefore refrain from calling for this part of the budget to be voted on. As far as the security of pensioners is concerned, it means a lot what we decide in other areas of expenditure. Liberals want to invest more in schools and education that equip people to get jobs. The jobs are crucial for us to get through this with pensions. Then there are other areas of expenditure that are relevant, and I shall not go into these here. This is about financial security for the elderly. It is also part of older people's policy, a policy for years. That should also be borne in mind when discussing. Tomorrow we will be debating Category 9, which actually hooks some of what we are saying in this area of expenditure, and that complicates the debate a little. I am proud of the pension system we created in the early 90s. We made a decision in principle in 1994 here in Parliament, and in 1999 we made the final decision, because we could not afford the ATP system. It was about to fail. It was already realised in the 1980s. But it was only in the early 1990s that the Alliance and the Social Democrats realised that here and now we have to make a decision on a pension system that we can afford, and it is financially stable for society. I agree that there are problems in that, because it does not feel so stable for the individual, with the fluctuations that we could not then predict would come so soon in the system. We predicted a more positive economic development for Sweden than the one that became reality. That's what we have to deal with now. What the Pensions Group is working on is to make it more predictable and that it becomes a more even pension development. In this context, it is very important that the public, those concerned, are given an understandable information about the system so that you can plan for your life's journey, so to speak. Solveig Zander was into this with maternal health care. Yes, we will use every opportunity when we meet people to raise the issue of how important it is to look at your life's journey in terms of work. The pension is based on the income of life. Then it becomes important what you choose for education, how you plan your parental leave, how you as parents share it and so on, but also that you consider how long you can remain in the labour market. You may enjoy your low-wage job well, but you think in your 40s to 50s on a career ladder. Then we come to training and education, which is on another committee, and how we can create opportunities for people to change tracks in the middle of life so that they can work higher up in the ages. After all, it is essential that we work higher up in our ages. We have, I am pleased to say, clearly increased life expectancy, which we could not predict in 1913 when we started with pension systems, nor did we foresee in the mid-70s when we lowered the age of the right to remain in work. We have a group of people with very low pensions. Some say 250,000 while others say 350,000. It's in here, and it's mostly women. The Pensions Group will see what options there are to change in the pension system, but changing such a system takes time. What can be done in the short term? You can look at the expenses of this group. The housing supplement is important here, and so Liberals want to raise the ceiling from 5,000 to 7 000 by 2020 by 500 SEK per year and increase the percentage that can be financed from 95 per cent to 96 per cent. That is the best way to improve the economy of this group. There are other things that do not belong to this committee. This applies, for example, to dental care. It's really expensive to get implants. In another context, we will have to look at how to target dental support better. Dental support has increased for this generation. It is 150 kroner a year for the age group 65 - 74 years. That's 100 million. Perhaps it would have been better to spend this 100 million on the group below the poverty line. Mr President, I would like to I refer to the Liberals' opinion in the report. We have no reservations.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1564	Mr President, I would like to A welfare society can be assessed to a large extent on the basis of criteria such as respect, exploitation and care for the older generation. We must be able to guarantee every human being that we can age with dignity. Today, however, many older ones feel anxious about the final years of life. The Christian Democrats see a number of urgent reforms that strengthen the economic position of older people in both the short and long term. However, it should be clearly stated that an important basis for this is the pension reform that entered into force in 2003. It guarantees the financial stability of the pension system and is something that the Christian Democrats defend. Mr President, I would like to The population of Sweden, on average, is happily living longer. But it also poses challenges linked to the growth of the so-called supply ratio. The proportion of the working-age population is falling in relation to the other age groups, with the result that the dependency ratio of those working is increasing. This demographic challenge, in turn, poses major challenges for the entire national economy. It involves efforts both to finance our common welfare as well as the development of pensions and the well-being of the elderly. To meet this challenge, a general economic policy that promotes innovation, risk-taking, work and a well-functioning matching of the labour market is needed, in short, a policy of greater competitiveness and higher economic growth. In addition, drivers for a longer working life are also needed. As life expectancy rises, KD sees it as natural that the retirement age should also be adjusted upwards. We therefore want to increase, within the framework of the pension agreement, the regulatory drivers for a longer working life. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats also want to strengthen the economic incentives and opportunities for older people to stay longer in the labour market. Today, those aged 65 or over who are still working receive a double job tax deduction that allows you to retain more of your salary after tax compared to a person who has not reached this age. In our budget option, we reduce that age limit to 64 years. This will allow more people to discover the economic viability of staying a little longer in working life before deciding on their own retirement. We are also abolishing the special salary tax for older people introduced by the government at the turn of the year, thus making it cheaper for employers to hire people over 65. However, the fact that older people are working further up the age bracket cannot be the only answer to the demographic challenge. It is likely that there are at least as good opportunities to extend working life by lowering the average age of young people entering the labour market. According to SCB, the age of establishment in the 2000s has been between 26 and 29 for men and 29 and 32 for women. We also know that Swedish students graduate late compared to students in other OECD countries. Every year we can lower the start-up age with is important for society as well as the pension system and the individual's future pension. In addition to the fact that a previous establishment in the labour market entails a higher income in life, it is a fact that the pension krona paid in early will have more years to grow with the interest-on-interest effect than the pension krona paid in late. In order to stimulate a previous establishment in the labour market, we propose, on the one hand, a double job tax deduction for persons under the age of 25 and, on the other hand, a degree bonus for those who graduate before they turn 25. All in all, we use the budget for next year SEK 4.6 billion to strengthen incentives for a longer working life. We see that it is an investment that is profitable in both the short and long term. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Christian Democrats have long been the driving force for reducing taxes on pensioners. When we were in government, we negotiated a total of five reductions in the tax on pensions and, in addition, three increases in the housing allowance for pensioners. This has brought historic improvements to the financial situation of pensioners. We are now moving forward, with our shadow budget, with further strengthening of the current pensioners' economy. We reduce the tax so that the difference in taxation on salary and pension is completely removed for monthly income up to SEK 14 000. This means 200 SEK more in your wallet every month for an average pensioner. Furthermore, we are raising the housing allowance for pensioners, and this is something that benefits the most deprived pensioners. All in all, the Christian Democrats for next year spend SEK 3.5 billion on strengthening pensioners' finances. The situation of the elderly has long been and remains a high priority for the Christian Democrats. Mr President, I would like to I naturally support our motion for Category 11 and our specific opinion in the report. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1583	Mr President, I would like to Investing in Swedish society with more jobs, better development in schools and stronger welfare is the prerequisite for Sweden to be a sustainable society in the future, where no one is left behind and where no one is held back. The fact that, as the government does, priority is given to urgent investments before major tax cuts is the right way to go. I am in favour of the committee's proposal and, at the same time, I would like to make it clear that the only way to secure pensions for the future is to create more jobs and combat unemployment. That is why our goal of Europe's lowest unemployment is so important for both today's and tomorrow's pensioners. Mr President, I would like to More and more people are getting older. It is a great success for our welfare nation and something we should be proud of. Only during this debate has the average life expectancy in the country increased by seven minutes so far. That's how fast it goes. Retirement comes after a long working life, where part of the salary has been paid into retirement over the years. Many pensioners are doing very well, but far from everyone. Injustice, inequality and inequality in our society are also reflected in our pension envelopes. It's the same job at a lower salary. It's lower pay, worse career and therefore worse pension, for the rest of your life. This is the largest part of parental leave and almost every day of the week. You are stressed out, run out, worn out, on sick leave, burned out, and insured. That's far from half the power and the whole salary. It is a struggle for full - time and then downtime, first for young children and then for older parents. In addition to unemployment, inequality is the major social problem we need to discuss. No party can with credibility discuss security in old age if it does not also deliver in the area of gender equality. Today, women have on average 70% of men's pensions. It is unacceptable and a development that we all have a responsibility to break. For me as a social democrat, the goal is for all pensioners to be able to live on their pension. We're going to have a community that stays together. It is part of the Swedish model and a wise focus on politics. Mr President, I would like to We have come to the half-time of this term of office, and I can look back on how we have delivered important improvements in the area by area for the country's pensioners. This year, the budget was calculated at 4.2 per cent – the highest level since the introduction of the new pension system. At the same time, we delivered our red-green election promise to abolish the unfair pensioner tax for those with the lowest pensions. We have also made a number of other improvements for the elderly group, including a large investment aid for retirement homes, an investment in knowledge in care, increased staffing in elderly care, increased housing allowances for pensioners and improved health and dental care benefits. These are important reforms that make a difference. Although I can proudly see how we have delivered so far, I also see societal problems that need to be resolved. Basic security for those with the lowest pensions is one of these challenges. Security needs to be strengthened, but at the same time I think we should be honest about the fact that the solution is not as simple as just providing some money for the guarantee pensions. It is not to deal with the issue quite seriously. In a system where work should be one of the driving forces, it is a problem that the difference between the one who has not worked and the one who has worked on low wages many times can be about a few hundred. Basic protection must be so strong that it is possible to live on, and at the same time it must be marked on the pension for those who have worked throughout their lives. We Social Democrats are prepared to take responsibility for today's pensions, among other things, by reducing unemployment, and for tomorrow's pensions, by contributing to the necessary changes in the pension system and pushing for a more equal society. We need to discuss how, in order to strengthen pensions, we get more hours worked in the Swedish economy and a longer and more sustainable working life. At the same time as we find models for how to improve for the most vulnerable, it is important, as some of the previous speakers mentioned, to stand up for the basic bolts of the pension system in the form of the work line, where every one-hundreds made a difference and where financial and political stability is something that makes the world's countries look at Sweden to learn more. We choose to develop the Swedish model and general welfare. It is a prerequisite for everyone to feel secure and confident in the future.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1599	Mr President, I would like to For a number of years, the question of how to make the money available for pensions in the future may not have been the most prominent in the public debate. But not least in the last year, the issue has become more topical, and we have been able to see in the media – in the form of articles, leaders, senders and debates – that pensions are something that touches and affects a great many people, not just those who are pensioners today. There are studies showing that about one in three future pensioners are concerned about their future financial situation as a pensioner, and a number who are already pensioners are worried almost all the time about how the money is going to be enough for the most necessary. Everyone should, of course, be aware of how different life choices affect retirement, but I really do not think it makes sense for so many people to go and worry about their life as a pensioner. It is our job as politicians, not least those of us in the parliamentary pension group, to try to alleviate these concerns – yes, sometimes even pension anxiety. It is not easy to take stock of all parts of the pension system. That is part of the explanation of the above concerns, and here our authorities, particularly the Pension Agency, have an important role to play. Now we know that the Pensions Agency already has many and good information efforts. A review of the premium pension scheme is under way. Generally speaking, it is the Green Party's view that the system must be more comprehensible and transparent to the individual. Now that we are talking about pensions, in this context, I must say, here and now, in the light of the turbulence with some funds at the fundtorg of the premium pension system – I am thinking mainly of Falcon Funds – that it is the absolute responsibility of the state to anticipate situations with every available means so that the money of the premium pension savers is not exposed to fraudsters and criminal activities. Pension savers must feel confident about this. Now I know the government is moving fast. A number of measures will be taken and the Pension Agency will be asked to act in different ways. This really is something that needs to be done. The Green Party has always felt that there should be enough money in the pension system both for future generations and for current pensioners, so that a reasonable financial standard can be guaranteed. Then you can always discuss what is a reasonable level of this standard – this is what the Pensions Group both analyses and discusses. The analyses show that absolute poverty among women and men over the age of 65 is very low. However, the proportion of pensioners with low economic standards – relative poverty – has increased over the last ten years. Both the level and the increase are greatest for single older women. There is also a fairly large group that is very close to the limit of low economic standards, and even there is the most women. The distance is small and shrinking. The Pensions Group has launched a specific project that focuses on achieving more equal pensions and is more or less in its final phase. I think it is good and that the work has been done with strength and speed. I understand that all parties in the Pensions Group are open to making changes in the pension system that can somehow improve the situation of the most economically vulnerable pensioners. We now see that the Alliance wants to raise the housing supplement. Although such a reform is accurate in itself and although we may all land in this in due course, it is not an absolute patent solution. This must be put in a context of analysing the overall impact of various measures in the system, not only for those who have the worst, but also in relation to those who have worked an entire working life and those who have not. A longer working life with an increased retirement age is also being discussed, based on the fact that life expectancy is increasing. An extended working life requires that the work does not create ill health. I would like to remind you here of the government's action programme for improving health and reducing sick leave. In my view, however, this also requires a flexible working life, in which different stages of working life are involved in different degrees and where, if necessary, a change of career is allowed to take place in order to cope all the way to retirement and without risking an excessive financial burden. It is the Green Party's firm opinion that our pension money should be placed in an ethically and environmentally sustainable way. Pension funds have come a long way in this regard, and they have a common ethical council to help and guide this work. I think that, after all, there is still some work to be done, and politics must not only keep up with it, but also push on. It's important. I therefore hope that the proposal for sustainable investment that is ready can be put forward and that we can take a decision on this in Parliament. Saving our planet does not conflict with making economic profit. Rather, it is a fundamental prerequisite for future high returns. The proposal on how to invest the AP funds is therefore not only good for future generations, who are also pensioners of the future, but also for the environment and the climate. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1614	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for giving me the opportunity to come here and talk about such an important subject as pensions and how to ensure financial security for our elderly. In Sweden there are over 2 million pensioners and almost 8 million future pensioners. Pensions are therefore something that affects all of us. They touch you, your sibling, your mother and your father, your grandmother and your grandfather, your grandmother and your grandfather. In Sweden, we live longer and add more and more healthy years to life. In fact, life expectancy in Sweden increases by approximately three and a half hours each day. It will have increased by a few minutes during my brief speech to this House today. It is a fantastic development and a huge success for politics. But that, of course, also puts our pension system under pressure. V i need to work together in the P division group and in the Riksdag on how we address this together. The pension is there to provide security during old age for those who have been involved in building up our country and with their work laid the foundation for our common welfare. One condition for us to be able to provide that security is that we have a stable pension system, financially and politically. Many countries in our world wrestle with pension systems that go on their knees. We do not have this problem in Sweden. We have a financially sustainable and contributory pension system, in which every krona earned gives pension rights. It is an important principle that makes there a clear link to work. Therefore, a well-functioning labour market with low unemployment is also an important prerequisite for good pensions. For me, who have a background in the trade union world, it is also very clear that there are many advantages in working together on these issues in the long term. We do this in the parliamentary pension group, and the government attaches great value to safeguarding the cross-block agreement on which the pension system is based. The fact that the earnings-based old-age pension is outside the state budget and that a broad cross-block agreement is behind the pension system is important, both for Sweden's economy and for citizens' long-term confidence in one of our most important security systems. I usually tell the story, for those of you who listen to me from time to time, of how, as a newly appointed Minister of Social Security, I had to abolish the seaman's pension, which was introduced in 1864. These are the perspectives that need to be taken with you on these issues. As many have said, this does not mean that the system does not need to be improved. The basic principles of the pension system are correct. But, of course, we must also dare to develop and modernise the system in order to meet the challenges posed by different demographic and societal changes. One such challenge, which has been mentioned by many here today, is the difference between men's and women's pensions. Today, women have on average a pension about 30% lower than men's. An average of SEK 6 000 less per month in the wallet for female pensioners is SEK 6 000. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the reasons why it actually looks like this are outside the pension system. The root of the problem of unequal pensions lies in the labour market and in the home. The fact that women continue to have lower wages, to a greater extent working part-time, have greater sick leave and take greater responsibility for family, children and relatives is reflected in the pension. Inequality accumulates at a high level during working life and appears concentrated in the pension envelope. Of course, for a feminist government, such unequal pensions are not acceptable. For us, therefore, a more equal work and family life is an enormous priority. That is also why we have introduced a third reserved month in parental insurance. That is why we want employers to make annual pay surveys. That is why we want to create a new equality authority. And that is why we work actively to improve the working environment for women and get healthier workplaces. But that is also why, together in Parliament's pension group, we have worked intensively for almost a year and a half on a project on equal pensions. We are now sitting together on a very good knowledge base in order to take forward concrete proposals in the long and short term in order to reduce the pen sions gap. All six parties in the Pension Group agree that this is an important and priority issue. Sweden's economy is doing well. The growth in employment and good returns in the AP funds will increase earnings and supplementary pensions by 2.8 per cent next year. Guarantee pensions will increase by 1.1%. For Swedish pensioners it will mean an average of SEK 280 more in the wallet in general retirement every month. That's good. At the same time, we know that many pensioners are having a tough time. This is why the government has prioritised clear investments in Sweden's older people. We have begun our work to once again strengthen our common welfare and develop the Swedish model for a society that stays together. For a strong welfare makes us all winners. We have begun the abolition of pensioner's tax, we have increased the housing supplement and we have invested heavily in more staff in the care of the elderly. These are important steps, although we know that much remains to be done. The government will continue to work to develop and strengthen the pension system in order to ensure that both present and future generations can feel secure in obtaining adequate pensions.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1630	Mr President, I would like to In 1981, the National Board of Health and Welfare, where I was the manager, proposed that the age for having the right to remain in work should be raised to 75 years, and in any case to 70 years. This was suggested because we saw a distressing ill-health among those who were forced to retire earlier. But this proposal was as crazy as the National Board of Health and Welfare's proposal for six to eight slices of bread a day. So a wet blanket was put over it. After all, this was quite a long time ago, but at the turn of the century the discussion again flared up on the possibility of, if you want and can, staying longer in the workplace. The pension group, where I do not sit, is discussing the issue. My question to the Minister for Social Security is how long until we wait. After all, it is 35 years ago, or something like that, that the first proposal to raise the retirement age came – and then a much higher age than the one under discussion today was proposed, namely 69 years.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1632	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Westerholm very much for the question. There is a very intensive work going on on this issue in the Pensions Group. What has been very gratifying over the past year is that we have also engaged in intensive dialogue with the social partners. They have made clear contributions, both from trade unions and employers, to what they see as important issues to be included in order for us to raise the retirement age. One such question was Barbro Westerholm herself in the past when she discussed the possibility of changing during her working life. Today we see that this is, for example, the kind of incentive we need to increase. If you are as a nurse, you may end up in the shoulders at 50, because there needs to be another way to be able to change and work longer. I think the discussion we have had with the social partners over the past year has been very good. It clearly shows that, on the one hand, we have a group of workers in Sweden who, for a long time, may have been able to and wanted to contribute to the labour market higher than they were. On the other hand, we have groups, not least among women-dominated professions, where there is a much higher level of ill-health and where the reasons for leaving the labour market prematurely many times are precisely that you cannot go all the way. To put together a package that actually makes this trip both probable and possible for people I think is absolutely necessary. But it is also necessary for us to take responsibility for the pension system by not turning aside even those issues that may be perceived as politically difficult. We must dare to deal with this issue together.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1636	Mr President, I would like to This is also an important issue in a broader perspective, namely, with regard to the ageism that the World Health Organisation has found to be a feature of many countries in the world. It characterises the countries with the best economy – the welfare countries – most, and Sweden stands out as a country where ageism and its consequence age discrimination prevails. If you raise the retirement age then it will be a signal to society that we value this generation and see it as a resource in society. Here is a lot of documentation, which I have read, for the Pensions Group. They show that year-long people can be an asset if the conditions are right. I am therefore happy to listen to a little more comments about the very basis that points to how this generation can be seen more out in the workplace – and then as part of the work against ageism.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1638	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the picture you are expressing, Barbro Westerholm, that is to say, that, with regard to the older workforce in Sweden today, we have too much of a view that we need to leave at 65. Many, too, feel compelled to leave their place of work at the time, rather than remain in work. It will be particularly striking, I would say, when we also find ourselves in a demographic situation in Sweden where, not least – as Lars-Arne Staxäng talked about – we know that in several sectors of the labour market and for many years to come, we will have a labour demand that exceeds the labour supply. This means that we, as a country, really cannot afford not to allow older, experienced people who want to remain and contribute to working life to do so. I think we have seen some exciting and clear examples in connection with the migration crisis last autumn. Then we saw both teachers and social secretaries and others who actually had the opportunity to come back in and contribute again. They left their retirement to support and help in a crisis. I also believe that the development we have in Sweden will show that we will not be able to afford this attitude towards older workers. There is a common task on the part of the policy, I would say, to highlight the problem.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1642	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our Amendment No 10 to be approved. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, and of course we should be proud of that. However, despite generous parental insurance, well-developed childcare facilities and clear gender equality ideals, many find it difficult to reconcile life puzzles. The expectations of society for women and men as parents and professionals differ, which in practice restricts freedom of choice. Infants, schoolchildren and teenagers, careers and homework, social life and their own aging parents are not tasks that can easily be reconciled in the short 24 hours of the day. Therefore, time is the most valuable asset for the vast majority of families. The RUT reform, carried out by the previous alliance government, has not only done black jobs white and created several thousand jobs primarily for women; it has also given parents and families the opportunity to unload in everyday life so that more time has been freed up to other things. That's why we in the Moderates want the roof of the RUT deduction tripled. Strengthening the RUT is a central part of giving families more time for each other and increasing their freedom and self-determination. Parental allowance is a central part of family policy, and combined with, among other things, preschool and other educational activities, parental insurance helps to support both parents' opportunities to combine parenthood and secular work through the possibility of being at home with children when they are young. Swedish women work extensively during childhood years, and men are also on parental leave. But much remains to be done before society and working life are equal. Women and men work on an average of the same number of hours per day, but men spend more time working, while women spend more time working at home. We want to encourage a more even distribution of parental benefit days between parents, which can also contribute to greater equality in the labour market. We see a more equal parenthood as a key element in reducing the rate of sick leave among women and also the pay gap between men and women. Unlike the government, however, we in the Moderates are not willing to sacrifice the freedom and self-determination of families. We do not believe in either coercion or quota. Instead of abolishing the gender equality bonus, as the government is now doing, we are paying money to maintain the gender equality bonus in parental insurance. This preserves the right of families to self-determination, while encouraging a more even distribution of parental allowance days without imposing quota allocation. We also want to explore the possibility of introducing a gender equality bonus for the withdrawal of vab days. Furthermore, greater flexibility in parental insurance is desirable. Families' situations today may be very different. A million families represent millions of different conditions, so family policy must be flexible and adapt to reality – not the other way round. Another issue where we in the Moderates see a clear need for change concerns the rules on maintenance support. Under the new rules, which entered into force in April of this year, maintenance support is no longer to be provided if the dependent parent has paid maintenance to the Social Insurance Agency in due time for at least six consecutive months. Instead, parents will get along on their own. We share the government's view that more parents should take financial responsibility that is compatible with their own financial conditions, but we want to see a system that is transparent and predictable. This would reduce conflicts between separated parents and strengthen support for children. Therefore, we want to set up an investigation with the task of fundamentally redesigning today's system of maintenance and maintenance support. Mr President, I would like to We want to re-establish the line of work in family economic policy. The possibility of long-term parental benefit delays the entry of newly arrived parents into the labour market. This applies in particular to women born abroad. We therefore want to limit the right to parental benefit at basic level to 365 days for those who have a temporary residence permit. For those without sickness benefit, we propose that parental benefit be granted until the child's one-year anniversary and that the restriction be changed towards an increased right to preschool in order to increase labour market participation. In this way, we break passivity and dependency on grants against an active job seeker who will ultimately lead to jobs and self-sufficiency. Mr President, I would like to Job and self-support are a prerequisite for parents to be able to give their children a good start in life. The best family policy is therefore a policy for more jobs and growth. However, in the area by area, the government is deteriorating the creation of new jobs. In addition, many of the government's actions strike the hardest against the group whose interests it has stated a specific objective of protecting, namely women. In the RUT sector, women are hit with the halving of the RUT deduction. In welfare, women who teach our children and care for our elderly are being attacked with proposals for profit restrictions and bans. This is done in family policy when you remove the gender bonus, change the rules for maintenance support and when you want to control families' everyday lives and puzzles with quotas.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1654	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Tina Ghasemi and the Moderates about what she spoke about at the end of the speech about strengthening the work line and that those who have not yet entered the labour market should receive parental benefit at basic level limited to 365 days. Is this about everyone? Does it apply if you are young and have not entered the labour market? Is it about them, or is it only about those who are new arrivals?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1655	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my speech, the new rules that we are proposing apply both to those who have a temporary residence permit in Sweden and to those who do not have sickness benefit-based income in Sweden.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1656	Mr President, I would like to Does this mean that as a young student parent I should have 365 days at basic level, or should I have 480 days like everyone else?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1657	Mr President, I would like to I do not really understand why the questioner does not understand my answer. I just said that, and I'll repeat it again. It shall apply to 365 days for anyone who has no SGI, i.e. sickness benefit-based income.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1658	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Social Security Committee's report 2016/17: SfU3 Area of expenditure 12 Economic security for families and children. It was pretty late today. It's a premiere for me with an evening debate. That's fun. At least that's something. I was also reminded by fellow party members, including on Facebook, that I forgot to say, Mr President, at the turn of the line with Mr Staxäng in the previous debate. I may repeat, Mr President, a little more than I had in mind in the speech. Mr President, I would like to Democracy is not just majority decision-making. Democracy also includes respect for individuals' rights and freedoms. So far, hopefully, we're almost touchingly agreed in here. But there are more aspects to a representative democracy such as ours, such as public opinion. If you have been given a mandate to manage the trust that voters have given you, you cannot, with the credit, completely turn a blind eye to public opinion and run over people. As politicians, of course, they have a responsibility to base all their positions on their own ideology, on facts, on a helicopter perspective of society, and so on. That goes without saying, but you can't just ignore public opinion. However, this House does. What I am thinking of, of course, is the compulsory quota of parental insurance. Depending on the measurement you wish to lean against, opinion on this quota shift. That's how you measure opinion. It's just changing. But, Mr President, there is no support for the claim that Sweden's parents, the men and women affected by parental insurance, want us politicians to decide which of the parents is at home and so much with the children. My view is that the best thing would be to change the insurance completely so that the financial situation of each household is not affected at all by who is at home. This would make it easier for freedom of choice and also for people who need to be on the labour market to be so. Above all, adults, adult, responsible citizens who have children, and thus parents, must continue to be regarded as adults, adult and responsible citizens. They should be able to choose for themselves whether Dad Konrad or Mom Maja-Stina-Stina should be at home with little Kurt in, for example, May 2019. That would be freedom. That would be equality. Unfortunately, Mr President, there is still a bit to go before we can see such a system. A good step forward, however, is to completely abolish the quota of current parental insurance. It is not the job of politicians to touch things within the threshold of people's homes, and Sweden's parents do not want that. It's allowed to completely ignore public opinion. But I sincerely hope that this issue will come up higher on the agenda for the elections, because I am sure that this disregard for taxpayers' views will punish itself if that happens. Mr President, I would like to We need to talk about the child allowance and especially the multi-child allowance. Most of our social security policies are designed to prevent people from falling into insolvency. They are for those who are financially weak, permanently or temporarily, to have food on the table, cressly expressed. However, the child allowance and the multi-child allowance are not of such a nature. Even those with an income that far exceeds basic needs, and much more so, receive child benefit. For relatively large groups, child benefit is something you can spare, put aside for worse times, buy something fun for, and so on. One might ask how good that system is. Is it a responsible management of tax money? It can be discussed whether the child benefit should in future be means-tested, or otherwise linked to the economic situation. However, I am not going to do that any further today. On the other hand, as the government has chosen to do, raising the multi-child allowance is a particularly bad idea. It's not because I have a problem with families with more than two children getting more money to move around with, on the contrary. I'm the father of three daughters myself. But is this really the way to go to support families with poor finances? The answer is no. It is, in fact, an irresponsible way of dealing with citizens' money. Besides, it's a little prejudiced. Having three or more children does not necessarily mean that you have it crunchy. On the contrary, there are lots of families whose need for this extra money is very limited, or even non-existent. One might also question the reasonableness of the fact that a family with two children and perhaps for economic reasons would wait a little while to plan for the third at this point in time to be sponsored by the state in order to make that decision anyway. Don't get me wrong. I know it's tempting. I think people should have children if they want to, but I mean there are plenty of other problems and other holes to fill. There are problems that weigh heavier than Konrad and Maja-Stina-Stina may have to wait a little while to have a third child. Instead of further increasing the number of children's allowance, we have proposed that these funds be used to strengthen the housing allowance. The housing allowance effectively meets the weak groups that the government and the Left Party claim to want to reach with the increase in the multi-child allowance. There are therefore well-defined groups of citizens in Sweden who have an economically tricky situation. I think it is more responsible to invest these resources in them. Therefore, the Swedish democrats have said no to increased child allowances and instead say yes to a strengthened housing allowance. Mr President, I would like to For those families who, for various reasons, want to leave their child at home for another time after the end of parental insurance, we want to both reintroduce and strengthen the municipal custody allowance. We suggest that it will be mandatory for Swedish municipalities to offer child care allowance and that this is increased to 6 000 SEK per month. It is far less than a preschool place for the municipality, and it gives more freedom and freedom of choice for Sweden's parents and children. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for reservations 1 and 14 to be approved.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1673	Mr President, I would like to Children have to conform to what their parents decide. Then it is a matter for children to make sure that they have good parents who decide what is best for them. The job we have as politicians and the task that is mine and yours – we who sit here – is to give parents the best conditions to shape the life that is best for the family and for the children. This means, Mr President, that you have to be flexible as a parent. That's why we center parties think it's important to have the equality bonus. The parent who has the lowest income receives a bonus if he or she goes out to work. This means that the family does not lose financially whoever is at home and takes the parental role at home. But you on the government side say no to that. Why not combine your proposal with the three quota parental months? Why can it not be combined with a gender equality bonus? One can't take the other. If you also want equality bonus on vab days, it works exactly the same way. But that too is not what the government wants to make possible. As I said, I do not understand why one has to choose one or the other. Something else that puts a stop to how parents' flexibility works is this with basic and minimum level days. It is an invention that involves taking out certain days before the others and so on. So you can't decide who should be home when and how. It certainly does not promote gender equality, which we talked about a great deal about in relation to the pension system just now. It is important to simplify parental insurance and parenthood and to enable parents to decide more at home at the table. We are not going to decide in this Chamber. Family-level decision-making is a local centre policy. The government has set up an investigation – an investigation into modern parental insurance. I will wait eagerly to see the result of it, and I very much hope that the flexibility for parents and parental insurance is included. Parents should be able to decide more for themselves. You should be able to combine the job, to be an entrepreneur or employee, and you should be able to transfer two days to someone else close to you. We will have to wait and see what this means, but now I am addressing the representatives of the government: expect us to read this out! I regret that there was no parliamentary parental insurance inquiry. That is what we proposed from the opposition. But then they said no, because the investigation would be set up quickly. It was urgent to look at this, it was said. I guess this is a bit of a rush. As I said, we have not seen any proposals yet. It is important for me to include in the parental insurance inquiry what concerns being an entrepreneur and a student. They must also have a reasonable opportunity for good parental insurance. What we in the Center Party point out, among other things, is that single entrepreneurs must have the opportunity not to lose their parental allowance if you go out and do a small task in the company you no longer work in. This is important, not least for women who are self-employed in the hairdressing profession and the like. If you rent out your chair to someone else, it might be good to make a call without losing your parental insurance. In addition, this issue of welfare gains is definitely directed at women and puts away their legs when it comes to becoming an entrepreneur. This is important, because it is about being able to be a role model for other women when it comes to starting a business. When it comes to improving for families, it is also about the maintenance allowance. We just heard Tina from the Moderates tell us about it, so I'll leave it there. It is important for maintenance support to be solved in civil matters. Mr President, I would like to I will now come back to this again with an investigation that would be so quick. It will be presented sometime in October 2017. So nothing will happen to the review of parental insurance during this term of office, my friends. Then this is a referral, and then it is an election year, and then nobody wants to deal with such important, difficult and serious issues. I'm sorry about that. That is why, Mr President, I am calling for the government' s budget motion to be rejected and I refer to our position and our specific opinion on the budget. I would like to vote in favour of reservation 8 in paragraph 4.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1685	Mr President, I would like to In the budget negotiations with the government, one of the Left Party's priorities has been to reduce the income gap between women and men. To do so, we have increased maintenance support. It has been an extremely important issue. It is an aid that for the last 20 years has been increased by SEK 100, and it was 2006. Now we raise it by 300 kroner a month per child. We have increased the basic level of parental insurance by SEK 250 per day. Support has also been increased for families with children. The Left Party also agrees with the Government that the income limits of the housing allowance granted to families with children will be increased in 2017. For those households who take part of the total increase, the housing allowance is increased by SEK 167 more per month. From 2018, the maintenance allowance will be increased by an additional SEK 150 for children aged 15 or over. For many children and single parents, this will mean a lot. It is a group that has been standing back for many years, and the debate on child poverty has been going on for a long time. Now we are doing something that improves the finances of many families. Of course, the poverty of children is due to the poverty of their parents. That is why we need an economic policy that makes up for inequality and creates an economy that works for everyone, not just for the richest. Efforts are needed for more jobs, the right to full-time work, better unemployment insurance, health insurance and the right to childcare even on inconvenient working hours. This would reduce adult poverty and thus child poverty. Single parents must be given better opportunities to combine parenting and working life. In the budget negotiations with the government, the Left Party has pushed through several reforms that are particularly beneficial for financially vulnerable families with children. In addition to those I have already mentioned, there have been increased child allowances, increased income limits in the housing allowance for families with children, free medicine for children up to 18 years of age, glasses allowance for children and state summer holiday support for municipalities that offer free activities. An economically safe childhood offers more choices. It also gives children the opportunity to live the same life and do the same things as their friends. Improving the economy of the most deprived children reduces the risk of social vulnerability later in life. In addition to the efforts we are now making in the budget, we want to see an action plan against child poverty. We therefore call for the approval of reservation 3. Mr President, I would like to Parental insurance is the most important key to achieving gender equality. Individualised parental insurance is the reform that would do the most to increase equality between men and women in economics, health and employment opportunities. The figures speak clearly: 15 years after a couple had their first child, the difference between their income has increased by 35 percent. It is because women have primary responsibility for children and homes. At the rate that men take out parental days today, it will take 50 years before the withdrawal is equal. We have no time or money to wait 50 years. The state cannot continue to contribute to inequality that affects all our daughters. Often it is argued – as has been done in this debate too – that the reason parents do not share parental leave equally is that it is not financially beneficial for the family. Most recently today we were able to read the news that this is a myth, according to Försäkringskassan's statistics. Even in families where the mother earns more than the father, the woman usually takes a larger share of parental leave. Among couples where women take full parental leave, 50 percent of men say that it is because it is most beneficial and 29 percent that the reason is that the partner wanted to be at home with the child. Instead, the most common response from women who had taken the entire parental leave was that the partner could not or did not want to be on parental leave. The Left Party is no longer alone in realizing that the individualisation of parental insurance plays a key role in gender equality. The report Men and Gender Equality was presented almost three years ago. It was an investigation set up by the bourgeois government. The investigator then stated that the most important thing for gender equality development is individualised parental insurance. The former Secretary General of the S ocial insurance investigation, Irene Wennemo, also derived the fact that women are more likely to be sick than men to the unequally paid allowance. It is now 13 years since the second father month was introduced. The second month has increased withdrawals by less than ten days on average among men. At today's rate, it will take almost five decades before we achieve an equal take-out of parental insurance. That's an unreasonable amount of time. In the rear-view mirror we see that only to reserve another month will have small effects. In the latest gender equality index from TCO we could see that women charge 72.6 per cent of all parental allowance while men only charge 27.4 per cent. Mr President, I would like to The whole life situation of women is at stake here. Taking out parental insurance affects women's working conditions, wages, health and pension. As is generally the case today, women are adversely affected. The government has the ambition to be a feminist government. That is good, and the Left Party has helped the government to live up to it. However, a government with the ambition of being feminist must also dare to tackle the structural problems, and parental insurance plays a key role, as I said. Now the order has been shaken a little bit with another earmarking. It will make more fathers stay at home and make the unequal take-out of days a little less unequal. But the Left Party is not content with such earmarking. It is time to take a holistic approach to what equal parenthood actually means. As long as the idea of freedom of choice is a superior principle for future reforms, parental insurance will continue to make it difficult for employers and continue to lock parents into dated gender roles. Then a third so-called father's month is not far enough. Both government parties are aware of this. We can't earmark 12 years at a time. We don't have time for that. Our daughters don't have time for that. Gender equality is about sharing equal. Not a little bit alike, but completely alike.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1704	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Left Party on maintenance support. Rossana himself mentioned maintenance support in her main speech. The maximum amount of maintenance support has come to be perceived as the normal level of what should be paid in the form of maintenance to a child. This is despite the fact that four out of ten children who today receive full maintenance support are actually entitled to more maintenance and had received it if the maintenance rule had been complied with. As you know, the government proposed with the support of the Left Party last year and implemented in April this year new maintenance support rules whereby if the dependent parent pays maintenance support for at least six consecutive months, the Social Insurance Agency will hand over the responsibility to the parents. However, the fact that in some cases full maintenance support is no longer to be provided does not solve the fundamental problem of the absence of a parent taking full financial responsibility. On the contrary, there is a risk that this proposal will act as a source of conflict, as parents are more likely to take responsibility for agreeing to handle financial transactions relating to maintenance themselves. It is clear that it should be considered best for children if conflicts between parents can be counteracted as much as possible. However, the maintenance rules are relatively complex, and many choose the more secure maintenance support over the higher but less secure amount. I wonder how the Left Party views this issue. I know that women's shelters around the country warn against the new regulations, as they mainly affect women and children. How does the Left Party view that concern, and how does the Left Party see that children with today's system do not get the economy to which they are entitled?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1710	Mr President, I would like to I am aware of the problem raised by women's shelters, among other things, and I agree that this is a major problem. We know that many women have gone away from men with whom they cannot have contact, and that is why extremely problematic. This is also a discussion that we currently have internally in our party. We have been involved in these issues, and now that the problem has been revealed, we have raised the debate in the party. So I would ask you to come back to the matter.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1711	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I'm a little concerned. The fact that the women's shelters are now warning against this, so soon after the decision was taken in April, means that there is little time to waste. That is why this should be done urgently; there are not many months to work on. I would also like to say that the Moderates, as I mentioned earlier in my main speech, have proposed a completely new model based on the child's financial needs in relation to the parents' financial capacity. The model shall be neutral, objective and predictable, and the calculation of the maintenance size shall be based on a certain predetermined percentage of the absent parent's income. In this way, we counteract conflicts and also give children the financial security they deserve. I therefore wish the Left Party not only to see the unrest but also to act as a matter of urgency. Months go by, and it doesn't get any better.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1714	Mr President, I would like to Again, Tina Ghasemi, I agree with you. This is an issue that I too think is urgent, and I promise we will come back as soon as we can. That's not good!
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1715	Mr President, I would like to Children with special needs are neither rare nor strangers. They only want what we all want, namely to enter and be part of the community! Is anyone prepared to copy and paste this to awaken the thought of all these children? Let's see who's got a big enough heart. I think friends will copy and paste! ! ! ! ..................................................... This is a text that occasionally, in different variants, pops up in my flow on Facebook. I never do that – copy and paste – partly because there are so many texts like this that are worthy of hearts in different ways, partly because a Facebook sharing does not really lead anywhere. There are other things that are needed. Children who have special needs need lots of different things, because they are individuals. Some things are easier to do something about than others. One thing that would be quite easy to do is that all children should be able to go to school. Every day, year round, two children fall ill in type 1 diabetes. There are about 8,000 children in Sweden with that diagnosis. For a child with type 1 diabetes to attend school, school staff need to know about the disease and how to handle it. That knowledge is given by parents, for it is they who know the child's situation and how to take care of the disease. It usually takes between one and two weeks for this to go to school. In the past, parents were entitled to a vab allowance – child care – to train staff. But then a new interpretation has been made at Försäkringskassan and no longer allows parents to apply for vab-reimbursement. It is believed that the disease is only the indirect cause of parental application. Actually, the reason is to train staff, and you don't have the right to be free for that. The problem is that parents are still needed to train school staff; that need did not disappear with the new interpretation. Instead, they have had to start taking vacations. Diabetes type 1 is a fatal disease– many people don't know it or want to believe it, but that's the way it is. So every time a new teacher starts, if the child changes year or school and at school start, the parents are financially affected because they have to take time off. So, in addition to the anxiety that one already has for the child, there is another concern. The school should take responsibility for self-care when the child is there, but today there are schools that refuse to accept that responsibility. They think that parents should participate in external activities such as theatre visits, outdoor days or bathhouse visits. It may also be that the school does not want to fix a resource for fritis if someone is gone. There are also those who do not dare to take responsibility; as I said, this is a deadly disease. I have mentioned this in the past in an interpellation with the present Government. I am, by the way, pleased that we have a minister present at this debate but the hour is late – that means a lot. The problem is not just diabetes at all. I spoke earlier today with a mother whose daughter has both ADD and a physical disability, which, however, is not at all so great that you need support according to LSS. She said, "It's meetings with the school that take at least half a day, because it's not like ordinary parent meetings right away." And then it's the shoe inserts that we have to fix. It also takes at least half a day, because it is not that they are around the corner. It's half a day here and half a day there. Thank God I have an understanding employer and can work on weekends and evenings, but not everyone else can. ..................................................... That's exactly how it is. If you have children with a chronic illness, disability or social problems, you often need to give up work to accompany the child on doctor's visits or meetings with school, preschool or social services. When it comes to visiting a doctor, you have the right to temporary parental benefit, i.e. vab. However, those who need to meet with social services or have contact with the school must take unpaid leave or take a vacation. There is also no formal right to take time off on these occasions, but it rests on the good will of the employer. Parents of children supported by LSS are entitled to ten so-called contact days with temporary parental benefit for contact with preschool or school. However, all children who have a less extensive chronic illness or disability but still have an increased need for, for example, school contacts also need the extra support. For a child with diabetes, it is literally vital that the school staff are trained to cope with the disease. We Liberals believe that the right to temporary parental benefit should include those who need increased contact with preschool, school or social services due to permanent illness, disability, mental illness or social problems, because this is today a real problem for a great many people. Around Christmas, not only do Facebook messages about thinking about children with special needs circulate, but also despairing cries from families where you don't have enough for even a regular month. December is for many not at all a warm, bright and lovely month but on the contrary very cold and hard. It's not just presents, it's a lot more. It comes home notes from school that you should send with a small money because the staff have been so amazing. It should be placed in an envelope with the child's name in another child's backpack, so that you surely know that everyone has contributed. It is lucia with coffee and lucialinnen, lucia crowns, ostriches, hats and one with the other. There are skates for sports and of course winter clothes. For me, this is simple. First of all, it's easy for me to say no. The school should be free of charge – we should not have any fundraisers at all. If there is necessarily a collection, it should be done anonymously; no names should be written. But for those who really can't afford it, it's also by far the hardest thing to say. They don't. There should be skates and all these things to borrow, but it doesn't. Housing allowance is a reliable way of strengthening the economy of the economically most vulnerable families with children. We therefore propose that the child allowance in the housing allowance be increased by SEK 100 per child per month. This also means that we reject the government's proposed increase in the income limit of the housing allowance, as an increase in the child allowance gives more to those who have the absolute greatest needs. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is great that the government has copied the proposal we had in our budget motion to increase the adoption allowance. Go! Go! Go! Go! You'll have to copy more liberal proposals. Parliament has already rejected the Liberals' draft budget through the framework decision, and a budget should be seen as a whole. We choose not to take part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations under Category 12, but of course we support both our policy and our reservation.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1737	Mr President, I would like to It is ongoing and has been going on for a number of decades on individualization in society. Today, people can choose in a completely different way than before to shape their lives according to their own desires, values and interests. Different groups and collective expectations are by no means unimportant. But they tend to mean less and less to the different choices people make, such as education, occupation, family formation, religious affiliation and political conviction. In many respects individualization is positive. It can increase the power of individuals over their own lives. More people can choose to go their own way through life. More and more people can realize their own dreams and goals. But there are also drawbacks and risks to development. If individualisation leads to more fragile and less stable communities, trust, security and cohesion in society can be adversely affected. One way of weighing up the more negative aspects is to pursue a policy that strengthens close relations, small communities, civil society and families. Of course, how we use the approximately SEK 90 billion that is included in the state budget's expenditure category 12 is important for this. Mr President, I would like to Children and young people who grow up in a secure family community are generally well placed to meet the challenges of life. Of course, there is no guarantee that everything will go well just because you grew up in a well-functioning family, but the probability increases significantly. Children who grow up in stable families generally have higher grades in school, go on to higher education to a greater extent, have a higher degree of mental well-being and are less at risk of exclusion compared to children from more unstable conditions. In other words, strong families benefit our children and young people. They are good for society at large, and they will eventually also strengthen the public purse. A clear objective of family policy should therefore be to provide as good a basis as possible for families to stay together and a stable basis for as many parents as possible to provide safe growing conditions for their children. Mr President, I would like to There is a variety of family forms in today's Sweden. This diversity exists because people are different and have different characteristics, experiences and desires. All of us, however, need close and loving fellowship. Different families perform essentially the same function. They share the same everyday problems, and it is not the family form that determines the parents' ambition and ability to give children a good upbringing. Children have different needs, and parents have different preferences and set different priorities. But it is always the parents who have the primary responsibility to determine what is best for their children and their family. It is not the state or the municipality that has that responsibility. Mr President, I would like to This very insight forms the basis of the Christian Democrats' family policy. The reason why we want to see more flexible parental insurance with a free withdrawal during the child's first three years without quotas, with an increased number of double days and with the possibility of transferring parental benefit days also to relatives, is precisely that the children should be able to get more time together with their parents, regardless of the family's appearance, but also that the parents should be able to design their lives and their everyday lives according to the conditions they live by. We want to enhance parenthood and give parents room for manoeuvre, but we also want to take responsibility for their own situation. This is very important. Unlike the government, we are safeguarding everyone's ability to make active choices rather than the same outcome. This means acceptance because the result is not always the same for all families with children. Different outcomes may be due to different conditions, and politics has an important task here in levelling out the conditions. But it may also be because families have simply made different priorities and choices that ultimately lead to different outcomes or otherwise have financial consequences. Here it is clear that the government has a completely different basic view. Mr President, I would like to Finally, it is also a priority for the Christian Democrats to support families financially. In this context, the focus of general policy should be to provide better opportunities for work and own savings. That is an important reason why we propose in our budget a job tax deduction for parents of 500 SEK a month. However, in our budget for next year, we also have a number of proposals aimed directly at families with children with a weak economy. On the one hand, we propose increasing the child-related part of the housing allowance, and on the other hand, we want to reintroduce leisure allowances. Mr President, I would like to From our point of view, the current government is pursuing an unfortunate policy that risks having a negative impact on the country's families. Our concern is also that, in the longer term, the era of individualization is hitting society as a whole as well as the strength of our economy. I would like to conclude by saying that we support our motion for Category 12. We support our specific opinion. I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1752	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the motions. I will start with a brief historical review of the fantastic journey that family policy has made in Sweden. The journey probably started earlier, but in 1937 it was decided on the first variant of child benefit, at the initiative of the Social Democrats. The general child benefit was introduced in 1948. Parental insurance came into existence in 1974. Other important reforms include the multi-child supplement and the adoption cost allowance, which was introduced in the 1980s. The housing allowance also has a long history. Of course, in recent years a number of changes and improvements have been made. Mr President, I would like to Economic family policy should contribute to a good economic standard of living for all families with children and reduce the differences in economic conditions between households with and without children. Family economic policy should also contribute to equal parenthood. Therefore, it is important for us to constantly try to improve parental insurance – parental insurance that came about more than 40 years ago to give parents, both women men, the opportunity to combine work and family life. Now, 40 years later, it turns out that women charge three-quarters of parental allowance. We are not satisfied with this, because the uneven withdrawal has major negative consequences. Children do not have access to both their parents. The pay gap between women and men is 15%. Women perform the majority of unpaid domestic work, work more part-time, have less career development and are more sick. As if this were not enough, women have 30% lower pensions. Most parties can agree that they are not satisfied with this development. The attempt of the bourgeois parties to get an equal withdrawal with a bonus failed. This means that the more than SEK 300 million the bonus costs each year mainly goes to those parents who would still have shared the parental allowance more equally. That is why the gender equality bonus is now being abolished. Mr President, I would like to We look forward with excitement to the outcome of the investigation into modern parental insurance. The aim is for parental insurance to contribute more than is currently the case to gender equality in the labour market, equal parenthood and good growing-up conditions for children. The study focuses on five areas: equal distribution of parental benefit and leave, the best interests of children, modernisation to meet new needs in the labour market and to facilitate different family constellations and its ease of use. Mr President, I would like to Since economic family policy should contribute to a good economic standard of living for all families with children, we propose a number of changes at levels. The multi-child allowance has not changed since 2005. Now the additional child allowance is increased to SEK 580 per month for the third child. Families with children with many children are a relatively large proportion of households with low economic standards. It is therefore very accurate to raise the multi-child allowance. It has also been a long time since the adoption allowance was increased. The level of the adoption premium has not changed since 2001. In 2001, the grant covered 36 per cent of the costs, compared with 17 per cent in 2014. Now the adoption allowance is increased to 75 000 per child, which means that the allowance will cover 33% of the average costs of the parents. However, if it has been a long time since the adoption allowance was increased, it was even longer since the income limits for the right to housing allowance were changed. Income limits have remained unchanged since 1997. Therefore, the income limit for housing allowance for families with children is now being increased to 127 000 for single people and 63 500 for spouses and cohabiting couples. Many children with a low economic standard live in households receiving housing allowance. It is also politically accurate here to raise the income line. The Government intends to introduce a differentiation in the amount of maintenance allowance for children aged 15 or over. It reviews the regulatory framework for survivors' support and examines the possibility of regulatory simplifications, including in relation to the notification of care of sick children. The Government also intends to implement a distribution policy reform aimed at modernising needs-tested support for parents. The government intends to come back to these issues. Mr President, I would like to Now we continue the journey that our far-sighted political predecessors started in 1937 by introducing child benefit. Now we're raising the multi-child allowance and the adoption allowance. We raise the income limits for the housing allowance. And we look forward to the outcome of the investigation into modern parental insurance. We are doing this in order for economic family policy to contribute to a good economic standard of living for all families with children and to reduce the differences in economic conditions between households with children and households without children. Family economic policy should also contribute to equal parenthood. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I support the committee's proposal and reject the motions.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1769	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask you a question about the equality bonus, which the government is now abolishing. I share the government's view that a more balanced distribution of parental insurance is desirable. This affects sick pay in particular. This affects not least the pay gap between men and women. But my question about the gender equality bonus is: Why does the government choose to abolish a tool– it is actually a tool for achieving an equal draw? We know that dads' withdrawals vary greatly between different groups. Barely 15 percent share equal. A similar group of men does not take out anything or just a single day. In between, there is a huge spread in terms of how long parental leave men take. What has the greatest impact on the length of men's leave is the mother's level of education. In order to achieve a more equal distribution, it is necessary to increase the withdrawal rate in those groups where the minimum number of days is taken, just as you yourself mentioned in the speech. One of the groups that collects a little is those with lower incomes. Here the bonus has the opportunity to play the greatest role if it becomes better known, because the equality bonus means relatively more to the economy of groups that earn less. That is why my question is: why is a tool removed? The Gender Equality Bonus is actually a tool that can be used to try to achieve a more equal distribution.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1775	Mr President, I would like to The gender equality bonus did not work. I believe that the Alliance, when it introduced the gender equality bonus, had significantly higher expectations of the gender equality bonus than the outcome. Between 2009 and 2015, the gender equality bonus cost 1 390 million. It's a terrible amount of money, quite simply. Unfortunately, studies have shown, if I may say so, Tina Ghasemi, that this did not have the outcome hoped for. Therefore, we choose to remove it and invest the money in other things instead. Then we'll see what effect the third month reserved will have – we don't know that yet. In two years, we'll know for sure. But it is still the case that the gender equality bonus, as we see it, did not work. I think Tina Ghasemi can agree with me that you had hopes for a better outcome.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1778	Mr President, I would like to Since its introduction in 2008, the gender equality bonus has been both simplified and automated. In recent years, the collection of parental benefit by fathers has increased. It cannot be completely ignored that the introduction of the gender equality bonus has had an impact precisely when it comes to fathers having taken out more days. Three evaluations of the gender equality bonus have been carried out. It is true that they cannot demonstrate that the bonus has had an effect on the withdrawal. However, all three evaluations show that the knowledge and knowledge that this money can be obtained tax-free is missing from a majority of parents. Thus, the majority of parents have no knowledge of the gender equality bonus, according to the three surveys. That is why our proposal has been to invest first and foremost in an information campaign to inform about the gender equality bonus. It is a tool that enables parents and families to decide their own daily lives. You are introducing coercive legislation and quotas. You go against 80% of the Swedish people and say that you want quotas in parental insurance. Instead, we create incentives, and give people carrots, to choose an equal outlet. Then I wonder: Why are you taking away the opportunity for parents to decide for themselves?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1781	Mr President, I would like to The word 'quota' is unfortunate to me. We reserve months for each parent. Again: The Gender Equality Bonus does not work. You introduced the gender equality bonus. You had quite a few years to inform us about the gender equality bonus, didn't you? But it did not yield the result that you desired. Of course, you can be very disappointed about that. But we look at the issue very objectively. We have spent a great deal of money on this in the state budget. We have not got what we had hoped for, i.e. a more equal set-aside. Therefore, we choose to go another way: to reserve months for each parent.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1783	Mr President, I would like to For a feminist party such as the Environmental Party, which is part of a feminist government, gender equality issues are important. Parental insurance and how it is designed are very important for us to eventually have a society where parenthood is more equal and where children have greater access to both their parents, if they are two. On that day all employers with equal self-evidentness expect that both men and women can be away for parental leave, we have come a long way. And on the day that men with as much self-evidentness as women are on parental leave and have experience of children's daily lives, it will be included as a knowledge of decisions made at all levels. Children's perspectives will be more likely to be included in decisions in the various public and private decision-making bodies of society. That is a good way to go, but we can also look back and note that progress is being made. Here policy has its contribution in essential respects. Pictures of men with strollers can still be met with wonder in some countries, but in Sweden it is no longer unusual. The fact that the government has previously ensured that another month of parental insurance has been reserved for each parent since 1 January this year is a good and important contribution to an equal society where children have greater access to parents of both sexes. The Green Party advocates a family view where every person should have the right and the opportunity to define his or her family. Today's families are multifaceted, and fortunately we have come from the view that only traditional nuclear families are seen as real families. As we declared in the government declaration, a review is being carried out to adapt parental insurance to star families and modern working life. A number of studies and reports have found that the imbalance between women and men in the take-up of parental and temporary parental allowances and in the overall length of parental leave have a negative impact on, in particular, women's opportunities in the labour market. This takes the form of lower wage development and career opportunities, higher absences from work due to ill health and lower life income, with significant consequences for the future pension. I am therefore pleased that we have now set up an investigation tasked, among other things, with analysing and proposing the measures needed to achieve a balanced distribution between parents of parental leave, parental allowance and temporary parental allowance. The Green Party wants to introduce a three-part parental insurance when parenthood is shared by two parents. When there are two parents, three-part parental insurance would give children access to both their parents, and parents, regardless of gender, would have a clearer right to take on the parental role. Each parent would then receive one third of parental leave, while they themselves choose how to dispose of the remaining third. One issue that has also long been important for the Green Party is the conditions and opportunities for students and entrepreneurs to use parental insurance. I am therefore pleased that the investigation that reviews parental insurance should also look at this. I think that is extremely important. In particular, I would like to highlight the Government's intention to implement a distributional policy reform aimed at modernising the means-tested support for orphan parents, where, for example, the introduction of a special allowance within the housing allowance in the event of alternate housing will be a proposal that will support financially vulnerable families. I think this is an extremely good and progressive proposal. All the other proposals put forward by this government to strengthen families with children and to increase allowances and allowances have already been made by previous speakers, so I will not go into them any further. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that we will have a gender equality authority, which will help to both push forward and follow up gender issues in a structured way. This is, of course, very pleasing to me. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1796	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry I'm late in this hour for a line. This was not really my intention, but sometimes you get a little upset, and then you have to ask for a reply. My question is about a child perspective. The Environment Party speaker mentioned in his main speech that your budget has a very strong children's perspective. The Social Security Inspection, IFAU and the Children's Ombudsman and others – i.e. the government's own expert authorities – suggest that the proposal to quota parental insurance, which you have now implemented with a third earmarked month, could mean that children together will be given shorter time with their parents in cases where, in particular, fathers do not increase their parental benefit. This applies in particular to the tenth of children whose father has not today taken out parental benefit when the child is eight years of age. If this were to be the effect of the proposal, it could mean either that the mother would be allowed to extend unpaid parental leave or that the child's total time with the parents would be reduced.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1801	Mr President, I would like to That was a long question in this late hour. Let's see if I got it. We don't think this will have the effects that you claim, so I don't see any problem with this. The parental allowance is coming. I believe that the progressive proposals that we are going to put forward make parental leave more equal.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1803	Mr President, I would like to I would like to make it clear that this is not my own conclusions or my own opinion, but the views of the government's own expert authorities. It is the Social Security Inspection, IFAU and even the Ombudsman for Children who raises the finger of warning that this could lead either to the mother being allowed to extend her parental leave without compensation or to the child's total time with the parents being reduced. The answer makes me very worried. Somewhere, I hope that some form of child impact assessment has been carried out before this kind of decision is taken. I therefore ask the Green Party again: is there a child impact assessment in connection with this proposal to ensure that children are not caught?
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1805	Mr President, I would like to I cannot give a straight answer to the question of whether there is a child impact assessment. I can't – it's that simple. These inspections and regulators often fear very much, but it is not at all certain that they are right, and in this case I do not think they will be right.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1807	Mr President, I would like to A general welfare that includes everyone. Equal parenting and the best interests of the child in focus. These are the underlying principles of the government's family policy. Added to this is its redistributive accuracy, which leads to greater equality and a reduction in gaps. Family economic policy is a fundamental part of the Swedish model. Child allowance, parental insurance, maintenance allowance and housing allowance – all of them together contribute to a reasonable financial situation for the vast majority of families. At the same time, we know that many families with children, especially single children, have a financially tough and vulnerable situation. We know that the best way to combat child poverty is to ensure that parents are given the opportunity to work. In addition, the various components of family economic policy are important complements. The aid is aimed at financial compensation and greater security when the burden of supply is greatest. For me, this is both obvious and necessary. We are a feminist government and over the years we have made several important efforts in this area. The increase in maintenance allowance of SEK 300 per child and month made a big difference for many children and families. A third reserved month in parental insurance, an increased basic level of parental benefit and a broad examination of the entire parental insurance are all parts that create the conditions for a more equal parenthood. This is the work on which we are now building. Now we are also – at last – raising the income limits in the housing sector. This is the first time in 20 years that this has been done. The fact that income limits have not been raised in the past has in practice led to fewer access to this contribution. The increase means greater security and a little more in the wallet for the additional 3 000 families with children now covered by this support. This is money that can go to much-needed winter jackets, soccer shoes or perhaps skates, as mentioned earlier. In addition, this distribution policy is very accurate. I have mentioned before the increase in maintenance aid, but there is much more to be done in this area. We know that the current level is not fair for all children of all ages. Older children cost more than younger children. It also needs maintenance support to reflect. Age differentiation of maintenance aid is therefore something that we need to review. At the same time, we know that maintenance aid is a source of debt, sometimes a deep one. It is therefore a priority to review the level of the basic deduction for the beneficiary, because there is a need for a better balance in this. Both the housing allowance and the maintenance allowance are in great need of revision. In addition, they need to work better in relation to each other. We have worked to modernise our support. The state should not send signals about which parent should have the primary care responsibility based on gender. This work must continue. Gender equality should permeate this whole area. The budget also includes a proposal to increase the multi-child allowance from the third child. This, too, will be a reinforcement to some families with children in the country. In addition, we are pleased to now be able to raise a neglected adoption grant to almost a doubling, to SEK 75 000. At the end of October, I received the interim report of the parental insurance inquiry on restrictions on the right to parental benefit for parents who come to Sweden with children. It may sound harsh, but the proposal is to reduce the risk of overcompensation by introducing a degression that will be similar to the withdrawal that a parent in Sweden on average takes out. In this way, we also strengthen parents' access to the labour market and give more children access to preschool opportunities, which is incredibly important. The goal is very clear to the government. Our family policy aims at gender equality with the child's best interests in focus. Sweden has a feminist government that ensures that the gender perspective is included in the policy design on a broad front in both national and international work. That women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives is a human right and a question of democracy and justice. Gender equality is also part of the solution to some of the challenges facing society and should be a matter of course in a modern welfare society, both for justice and for economic development.
i-071f1ca1a12f7c75-1822	Mr President, I would like to Children's growing-up conditions are something that I am passionate about and that was why I wanted to engage politically with the Social Democrats. When I worked as a socionomist, it became so clear how much society and politics affect children's conditions and how life looks. Child and family policy is a political issue that affects many people and arouses many emotions. I would like to talk about some of the proposals that the government is now putting forward from two perspectives. One is equality and the other is distribution policy. Children should be able to grow up and have equal opportunities to shape their lives, whether they are born as boys or girls or whether they live in families with good or worse economic conditions. Mr President, I would like to Gender equality is about adding and creating greater room for manoeuvre when it comes to what we can do, say and dream about for both women and men, girls and boys – simply the possibility of being able to influence their own lives and the society we live in. We have taken many steps towards gender equality. Quite often Sweden is seen as a pioneer country. And yes, we've taken a lot of steps forward, but we still have a lot to do. For women, gender inequality can be about lower pay than men, even if they do the same job, and more often taking time off from work or working part-time to care for children, with lower pay and lower pension as a result. For men, gender inequality can be about less time at home, which can lead to less contact with their children. For children, gender inequality can be about about half of all children with separated parents living alone or mostly with their mother. It is a rather small part that lives most or only with their father, and many children say that they do not have as close contact with their fathers. The Social Insurance Agency recently produced an attitude survey in which they asked the children who they were going to. Unfortunately, it shows that less than 10 percent have close contact with or go to their parents when they have questions or concerns. There are many of us who find it problematic. Children need all their parents. Article 18 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that both parents have joint responsibility for the child's upbringing and development. When parental insurance was introduced in 1974, I think it was, the idea was to increase the possibilities for fathers to have more contact with and closer relationship with their young children, but perhaps above all for the children to have a stronger and closer relationship with their fathers. Sharing parental insurance more equally has proved to be a good way to increase gender equality for women and men, but also for children. Where parental insurance is shared more equally, domestic work is also shared more equally, and working life is more equal. In the case of separations, it is most common for children to live alternately. The children thus have a closer relationship with their parents. There is therefore a strong link between gender equality and children's health and development. The time alone with the child in everyday life is important when the child's trust is to be built up. Everyone has to gain from equality and equality of parenthood. Mr President, I would like to Child benefit is and has long been an important reform that gives children and their family better financial conditions. The general child allowance is a cornerstone of Swedish family policy and will contribute to a good economic standard of living and opportunities for all families with children. Families with children with many children make up a relatively large proportion of households with low economic standards. Therefore, increasing the number of children's allowances has been one way of reaching the many vulnerable families. The budget also proposes to strengthen the housing allowance by raising income limits. More families can then be considered and have better financial conditions. The budget bill also states that the government wants to implement a distribution policy reform to modernise the needs-tested support for parents living in a particular age, because the support is very important for households with low economic standards. However, they are not sufficiently adapted to current patterns of living and family constellations. Many are the children who still live in financial vulnerability. The differences between children's conditions increased over several years, so there is every reason to strengthen the distribution policy. Mr President, I would like to A policy that gives all children the opportunity to grow up well contains many different things, such as a good preschool and high-quality school, opportunities to get support if the child or its family needs it and a high-quality health care. I am proud of the budget that the government is now presenting. It is a coherent policy to strengthen children's conditions of growth. We are taking important steps towards better gender equality and a stronger distribution policy, and it is for the sake of the children. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal on Category 12 and on the Government's budget proposal as a whole.
