i-edb5540c82cd2689-3	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating one of Sweden's most important authorities, the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office is part of the parliament's control power. It is regulated in the form of government, one of our constitutions, in the same chapter as, for example, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, the JO, and the Constitutional Committee itself. The Swedish National Audit Office is a tool for the Swedish Parliament to monitor the correct and effective management of government activities. The Swedish National Audit Office was formed as an authority during the Riksdag in 2003, when the Swedish National Audit Office, which was a authority under the Government, was merged and the auditors of the R Iksdagen were merged. The establishment of the Swedish National Audit Office has strengthened the parliament's control power in the economic field. The Swedish National Audit Office has a very important audit mission. The independent audit increases the transparency of public authorities and activities, ensures the efficient and desirable use of public funds and contributes to a high level of confidence in public activities. At the same time, of course, the important tasks of the Swedish National Audit Office mean that there must be high demands on the authority's management and operations. Therefore, it was with growing concern that we took note of the media reporting that began in July this year and that described various problems and maladministration related to the Swedish National Audit Office's management. The initial report was about whether one of the national auditors had taken the position in a wrong way with an audit case concerning the County Administrative Board in Skåne County. The case had been partly handled by an authority where he was previously head of the company and also related to the responsibilities of another national auditor. The core question was therefore whether the conflict rules had been breached. Then there were reports concerning, among other things, the recruitment of new employees to the Swedish National Audit Office and the management of a major reorganisation. In connection with this reporting, one of the auditors resigned. The role of the Constitutional Committee in relation to the Swedish National Audit Office consists of three parts: The KU nominates new national auditors, who are then elected by the Chamber. The KU prepares proposals for the legislation that governs the organisation and mission of the Swedish National Audit Office. It is the KU that can propose to the House to dismiss a national auditor, if the national auditor is guilty of what the constitution calls serious negligence. The work of the law gives two examples of what serious neglect can be. What is mentioned here is that the national auditor has either committed crimes in the service or crimes of a serious nature outside the service or has compromised a review in such a way that he or she has taken instructions based on, for example, the conclusions to be drawn in the review. The Constitutional Committee took media reporting this summer very seriously and called the three national auditors to an open hearing, which took place in early August. One purpose was to get a picture of whether a national auditor was guilty of serious negligence and if the KU would therefore take the initiative to dismiss the national auditor in question. The members of the KU concluded that there was no reason at the time to take such an initiative, even though we could at the same time conclude that confidence in the Swedish National Audit Office had been damaged by what had happened and that it would therefore require considerable work to restore confidence. Later in August, a second national auditor resigned as a result of reporting in another case of conduct that could be problematic from a conflict point of view. On 15 September, the third national auditor announced that she, too, wanted to leave her mission in order to give the agency the opportunity for a new start with a completely new management. However, she remains in office until further notice, so that the authority will not lack leadership during the recruitment of three new national auditors. The Swedish National Audit Office commissioned Professor Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger to analyse what happened and whether formal errors were committed. His report shows, among other things, that the process of the extensive recruitment that was carried out had elements such as persuasion of selected persons, targeting their own networks and anticipating decisions and access. These different circumstances together gave a combined picture that does not inspire confidence, says Professor Axberger. At the same time, he points out that the auditors' ambition was to have as competent staff as possible, that the auditors managed to link well-qualified employees to themselves and that there is no basis for mistrust of those who were employed. Both of these observations are important for the future, as I see it. Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger also points out that the change work that began within the Swedish National Audit Office was carried out too hard, without sufficient consideration for employees and existing operations, that the preparation was neglected and that the auditors had not initiated a risk analysis, which is a requirement when making major changes. When it came to the review of the County Administrative Board in Skåne County, which was the first to be reported in the media, Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger notes that, despite the conflict, a national auditor interfered with a case and that it was wrong. At the same time, however, he notes that the national auditor with administrative responsibility who was responsible for the audit in question should have acted more resolutely when it became apparent that the conclusions drawn by the responsible auditor at a lower level in the organisation were incorrect. In the debate it was argued that the national auditor with administrative responsibility had interfered with the matter too much. On the contrary, Axberger concluded that she did not intervene in the matter. There is therefore much to say about this, but it is very good that there was an external evaluation and review of the Swedish National Audit Office in this regard. Axberger also made a broader analysis of the state of the agency and believes that a partly problematic organisational culture has developed. In light of everything that has happened and has been reported, it is important to stress that this summer's media reporting essentially concerns problems linked to the national auditors. At the same time, the agency's staff have continued their important work in reviewing the activities that are constantly carried out in the state. Trade union representatives at the Swedish National Audit Office have visited the Constitutional Committee, and I have attended a staff meeting at the Swedish National Audit Office. I have pointed out on both these occasions and in other contexts that the KU sees and values the efforts of the several hundred employees in the Swedish National Audit Office. I am still full of admiration for the fact that they have been able to continue their work even though it has stormed around the authority. It is easy to see that it has been a stressful time. You should be able to tell with pride and confidence where you work. I know that many employees have not felt that way during the time that has been. It has to stop now. The authority's reputation must be restored. The Swedish National Audit Office should be a workplace to be proud of. An important part of this work is the recruitment of three new national auditors. This is a task on which the Constitutional Committee, through its preparatory delegation, is currently working intensively. The ambition is for us to put forward three names before Christmas. In addition, the Constitutional Committee wants a review of a number of issues related to the Swedish National Audit Office. In the report that we are now debating, the KU proposes that the Riksdag Board should be given the task of setting up an investigation that should be parliamentaryly composed but led by an unpolitically prominent lawyer. Some of the issues that need to be investigated have been raised through media reporting. Others needed to be analyzed under all circumstances and had been investigated sooner or later anyway. The investigation shall be tasked with reviewing the assignments of the auditors, the relationship between the Riksdag and the Swedish National Audit Office, the performance audit, certain conditions at the Swedish National Audit Office and a number of other issues. In order for any constitutional changes to enter into force after the 2018 Parliamentary elections, an interim report on constitutional issues needs to be submitted by summer 2017. The final report is supposed to be ready by the turn of the year 2017/18. I will now present a number of important issues that will be addressed in the investigation. One issue that has been much discussed is the operation of the system of three national auditors. It came into being as a compromise when the authority was created and was due to the fact that some parties did not want a single national auditor who they thought could have too much power. However, a three-part leadership has proved difficult to manage. This has created a lack of clarity with regard to the employees and has meant that considerable effort has had to be put into anchoring and coordinating the three national auditors between them. Many people therefore argue that the Swedish National Audit Office should have a clear manager. The investigation will analyse the advantages and disadvantages of the current regime. On the other hand, the investigation shall not present legislative proposals for an amended number of national auditors. The KU has an obligation under the Constitution to submit proposals for three new national auditors as soon as possible, and it is not appropriate in the investigation to draft legislative proposals to reduce the number of national auditors. The three elected in the near term should know that their term of office will not be changed by the Riksdag afterwards. On the other hand, the investigation will analyse at which levels of law – constitutional law, the Riksdag regime, ordinary law – various issues related to the Swedish National Audit Office should be regulated. One possibility is that proposals will then be made to move the provision on the number of auditors from the form of government to the parliamentary order. This would make it easier to change the number of auditors in the future if justified. Although the three national auditors decide independently on the audits for which they are responsible, one of the three is appointed as administratively responsible national auditor, which gives that person some exclusive decision-making power over mainly administrative matters. The investigation shall look at the system of an administrative auditor and whether his role needs to be strengthened. This could be a way of creating clearer leadership within the framework of a model of three national auditors. Another problem is that, with the current constitutional rules, it is not possible to appoint a deputy national auditor who could go in and serve if one or all of the national auditors are affected by illness. The investigation should therefore consider whether a regime of deputies should be introduced, as in the case of the JO. The seven-year term of office of the national auditors shall also be evaluated. In this context, it is necessary to consider whether there should be a possibility to select auditors for a shorter or longer period of time than the principal statutory auditor. In addition, the investigation will review the qualification and competence requirements for national auditors and the criteria for dismissal and the nature of that process. As I mentioned, it is difficult for Parliament to appoint a national auditor. The idea is that the auditors should dare to take uncomfortable decisions without the risk of being dismissed by a disgruntled parliamentary majority. It is a good idea that should be protected. At the same time, it has become clear during the summer and autumn that confidence in a national auditor can be damaged so seriously that it will be difficult for the national auditor to continue his work, even if the action does not meet the formal requirements for dismissal. It raises the question of whether the requirements for dismissal are well balanced. In relation to the relationship between the Riksdag and the Swedish National Audit Office, the investigation will analyse what the independence of the Swedish National Audit Office consists of and whether there is reason to clarify the limitations of independence. It is an obvious starting point that the auditors of the state should continue to have independence when it comes to deciding what to review, how to conduct the review and what conclusions to draw from the review. On the other hand, the question is how the Riksdag assumes its responsibility as head of the Swedish National Audit Office, what it would call corporate ownership. The question of the role of Parliament should therefore be analysed. How does the role work, and can it develop? Is it appropriate today that three different bodies within the Riksdag are responsible for various issues relating to the National Audit Office, the KU, the Finance Committee and the Parliamentary Council? Should parliamentary transparency in the Swedish National Audit Office be increased, and if so, how? The Swedish National Audit Office is the country's main reviewer, but the question has been raised in the debate about who is reviewing the reviewer. The investigation will therefore also address issues related to the supervision of the Swedish National Audit Office, the annual audit and the efficiency audit. In 2010, legislative changes were made to clarify the mandate of the efficiency audit. It has been discussed in the debate what those amendments really meant and whether substantial changes were needed to make them effective. The report will therefore review the performance audit's mandate, quality and impact, which means, among other things, analysing how Parliament's decisions from 2010 have been implemented. Madam President, I would like As mentioned above, three new national auditors will take office, probably during the first part of 2017. This will be an important point for the work to develop the Swedish National Audit Office. The investigation work that I have now described will be carried out in 2017. This process becomes a second important part of the development work. When the investigation has been completed, and any changes to the law and constitution have been implemented, my hope and the Constitutional Committee are that we will have a well thought-out and balanced regulatory framework for the Swedish National Audit Office's management, the relationship between the Riksdag and the Swedish National Audit Office, the focus of the performance audit and other important issues. Sweden already has a competent national audit that performs its important tasks in an excellent way. Under the leadership of the new national auditors and with the upcoming new regulatory framework, the goal is for Sweden to have an even sharper national audit, which carries out annual audit, efficiency audit and international cooperation of the best class. It needs and deserves a modern, transparent and reform-oriented country like Sweden. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-35	Madam President, I would like Today's News report in July came as a surprise to me. For Social Democrats who were active in the Finance Committee and the Parliamentary Council, there were probably more of a hint. I had no idea myself. It may also be added that the principle of public access and the protection of communications under the Freedom of the Press Act has proved its great value when Dagens Nyheter has been able to make their reports. There have also been contributions outside Dagens Nyheter's reportage. Letters have been sent to the Constitutional Committee by various individuals, including former auditors of the now total authorities. Before that, I did not have the kind of information that they have passed on. The Office of the Constitutional Committee has reviewed the state of research in relation to our national audit. There are a lot of downloads and sees, but neither can I in retrospect see that you saw the problems that came up in 2016. It has been valuable to listen to the representatives of the staff organisation at the Swedish National Audit Office. There came out shades that were in line with the investigation that Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger has done but perhaps with some different emphasis. There, of course, the conditions of this great authority were at the center. I think it can be said that it saw that there have been some problems but that they deepened in August 2015 and beyond. The constitutional committee's own hearings of the national audits, all three, have also been good. However, I believe that these events and the e-mails and requests we received were not deep enough and comprehensive enough to enable the Constitutional Committee and the Riksdag to dismiss the national auditors in accordance with our current rules. It sets out as a starting point the concept of serious negligence. It is only with Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger's investigation that the Swedish National Audit Office itself asked for and that I and we in the Bureau were involved in supporting the launch of, that we get the basis for the Constitutional Committee's position in assessing what has happened within the Swedish Audit Office in terms of profits and problems. With it we have been able to have a starting point – and I dare say that it has also been a collective starting point – for the assessment in the Constitutional Committee and the initiative for an investigation that we are now proposing to Parliament. I would like to say straight away that I and the Social Democrats felt that the three national auditors have acted correctly when they have gradually requested their resignations. They've done it, I'd say, eventually in the light of Axberger's investigation. Such extensive criticism on as many points as it contains meant that the situation was not sustainable either for the three individuals as national auditors – one of whom had already resigned directly – or for the conditions within the authority. I would like to mention a few points from Mr Axberger's investigation which perhaps in the media follow-up and comments have not been very central but which I think are important. As our President has just pointed out in his speech, this is about the major change that was initiated by the three new national auditors without a so-called risk analysis. This would have meant having to set up, for itself, what could happen with the strong restart or restart that was advocated. Axberger also believes that consultation with the Riksdag would have been very appropriate in this situation. However, I would like to point out that the information that I feel has been given with the auditors' visit to the KU did not make me understand what was going on and what could be problematic. Similarly, the closure of audits and the fact that no justification for them was given by the national auditors in breach of the Audit Act is not acceptable, nor is it an acceptable management process. There is an informal culture in the agency that has existed for many years and which paradoxically has led the agency to be governed in a less uniform way than what Swedish state administration should have and which one could imagine that the Swedish National Audit Office should be keen to have. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention how we in Parliament have exercised our headship for the Swedish National Audit Office. In Axberger's investigation, and to some extent in other contributions, the problems of the fragmentation of supervision and the contact with the audit process arise with regard to the Constitutional Committee, the Finance Committee and the Parliamentary Council. It also shows that the legislation, originally from 2003, and the design of the independence of the national auditors have been unclear. The whole process of 2003 was a political parliamentary compromise that did not have properly designed legislation as a result. I would also like to mention something that I think is almost a system property and which Hans-Gunnar Axberger has at least mentioned orally to us. This means that one consequence of the independence, or the opinion of Axberger, of the three national auditors is that it is perceived as less independent of the administrative officials of the authority. There is perhaps one of the problems that naturally does not exist in an ordinary Swedish authority, where the Director General tends to often delegate down to different levels in his organisation. This applies not only to preparation but also to decisions. There is a problem here that we have reason to draw attention to, and we should understand to some extent what has been and look at what we are going to do in the future. There are many appreciative assessments, including from staff organisations. Despite staff turnover, perhaps low productivity in audits and other questions, there are evidence and assessments in recent years that indicate that good jobs have also been done. It is our hope that with a lot of effort and good faith we will be able to create a socially useful, exciting and good national audit both for the Riksdag and for the political supervision of ourselves and for the agency to function in a way that gives us good and committed employees. I would, of course, like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-49	Madam President, I would like The reason why we are standing here today is the errors that have been discovered during the summer in the Swedish National Audit Office. The authority that should have been a good example and a good example for the entire Swedish Government has simply not been able to live up to its full commitment. It is almost a philosophical question, Madam President: who is actually looking at the reviewers? There are probably far more of us who are asking ourselves today than before the errors in the Swedish National Audit Office came to light this summer. Many also wonder whether the Riksdag really has control over its own authorities. These questions are, of course, perfectly justified, especially today. My view is that the events that are now being highlighted in the light of the third state power, that is, the media, would have been highly unlikely to have been detected by Parliament with the instruments of control that we ourselves have at our disposal. The Swedish parliament and the media both have an audit function, but how we conduct our review is of course very different. What most people can probably agree on is that we are both needed and that our different methods of scrutiny complement each other. The Swedish National Audit Office, but also the JO, are special authorities in such a way that they form part of the parliament's control power and, by extension, also the people. Therefore, confidence in these authorities needs to be very high. With regard to the Swedish National Audit Office, it is therefore deeply regrettable that the Authority's confidence is now damaged. Madam President, I would like I've never believed the proverb that time heals all wounds. In order for us to restore and then also maintain confidence in the Swedish National Audit Office, it will take far more than just time. Long-term work will be required both of us politicians and of the next national auditors. In the report produced by Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger after the scandal was a fact, criticism was directed against both the National Audit Office and the three national auditors, but also against the Riksdag. Among other things, it is noted that the Swedish National Audit Office's independence risks being questioned as too many recruitments have taken place directly from the Government Office. It is also noted that within the Agency there has been an informal management culture in which own considerations and internal practices have taken precedence over legal rules. As regards criticism of the Riksdag, it is noted, among other things, that the Riksdag is not fundamentally designed for government control and that we also lack the tools needed to run complex legislative projects on our own, which according to the investigation is evident in the Swedish National Audit Office's regulations, which the investigator believes have significant shortcomings. The shortcomings that have now been pointed out by both media reporting and Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger's report must not be left without action, and the Swedish Democrats therefore support the announcement that we are addressing today to the Swedish Parliament's Board of Directors regarding a review of the Swedish National Audit Office. It is also a united committee which is making this position today. I will not repeat what has already been said about this review, but I would nevertheless like to highlight a few points which are considered particularly important by the Swedish Democrats to highlight. Firstly, we believe it is important that the review now looks at the criteria to be applied in order to dismiss a national auditor. Today, in practice, it is very difficult to do just that, and it is therefore important that the question of what opportunities should exist to do so really be investigated. Secondly, Madam President, we believe it is particularly important that there should also be a review of whether the conflict rules for the National Audit Office should be strengthened, particularly in view of the alarm signals that Axberger sends out in his report that the Government Office is a major recruitment base for the National Audit Office, which is hardly a viable way of strengthening the independence that is now rightly being called into question. Thirdly, Madam President, I would like to conclude by mentioning that the Swedish Democrats initially proposed to extend the current review to the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, JO. Since this did not win any voice from the other parties, the Swedish Democrats raised a committee initiative to initiate a separate inquiry by Parliamentary ombudsmen, JO, simply to take a holistic approach to our own authorities. Today it is completely impossible for us to know whether the errors and shortcomings that have now been discovered in the Swedish National Audit Office are isolated to the Swedish National Audit Office alone. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is better if we can identify and solve problems before they arise instead of patching and fixing once the problems are a completed fact. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-62	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee is now dealing with the KU14, Review of the Swedish National Audit Office. It is an unusually long committee initiative – almost like an investigation in itself – which, I hope, will provide much support for the Riksdag Board if they decide to proceed with setting up an investigation that can make the review of the Swedish National Audit Office's activities that we from the KU are asking for. The background to our proposal to the Riksdag Board to set up an investigation to make a review is, as members of the KU here have previously told us, in reviews that DN started last summer in a series of articles. The articles were partly about how to recruit and partly about a specific case in Skåne. It was also about the internal work of the agency. All three national auditors were then fairly newly appointed, and two of them resigned during the summer. The third, Margareta Åberg, has announced her resignation but has promised to stay until there is a new national auditor in place in the business. Previous speakers have told me about the preparation process, so I will not go into it very much. I will not go into so much of the historical perspective that Andreas Norlén and Björn von Sydow raised earlier. Nor was I going to talk so much about many of the individual issues, such as the efficiency audit and the quality of the reports. Instead, I intend to focus on the Riksdag's relationship with the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office is an authority during the Riksdag in common with the Riksbank and the Ombudsman for Justice. For all three authorities, the concept of independence is central to their functioning and their credibility. The Riksbank must be free to set the interest rate and to act quickly without political pressure. The Ombudsman should be able to examine the correct and correct ways of finding them and should be able to do so without pressure. The Swedish National Audit Office as well. But none of the authorities live in a vacuum. The Riksbank has a council composed of politicians, often members of parliament, and both the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman can attend meetings of the Executive Board even if they are not allowed to vote. The Ombudsman has a record every year in the Riksdag with an open and closed hearing where members of the Constitutional Committee are given the opportunity to ask questions, both about the special reviews and about the internal work of the JO. But at the Swedish National Audit Office you have a parliamentary council without its own resources and that has meetings five times a year, which is therefore not very often. The KU is responsible for preparing the elections that are then made in the Riksdag. The Constitutional Committee may also, in the long run, propose abstinence and new legislation, and that is certainly not something that happens very often. It submits its audit report annually to the Committee on Finance, and it also gives its opinion on what could be done by extension. The Committee on Finance's view has been that the operation has worked well, but it has wanted to press for work to get more efficiency audits to go faster to get through. Then the Swedish National Audit Office also has a certain relationship with the Foreign Affairs Committee regarding all the foreign activities that the Swedish National Audit Office has. In short, it is a very divided role that the Riksdag gives the Swedish National Audit Office when it comes to making different reconciliations. I think that we in Parliament need to do our homework in order to be able to provide much better and, above all, more combined reconciliation opportunities than exists today. I myself would probably advocate today that the Parliamentary Council should be given a stronger position, but that is not something I want to lock myself in, but I can also imagine that there are other variants to gather the reconciliation opportunities. The KU also proposes that the review should look at a number of other practical things such as how many national auditors you should have– today there are three with an administrative manager – how long they should be able to sit, if you are to have deputies and so on. These are questions that have come up when all three national auditors really want to quit but the operations cannot work without a national auditor. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit has an extremely important role to play in confidence in all the state institutions. Restoring confidence is therefore very important. I know that the Swedish National Audit Office is currently doing a solid job of reviewing its own routines and trainings after receiving Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger's report. All of this is done in order to be even more thorough and professional in their review work. We in the Constitutional Committee are also doing an extra solid and comprehensive job this time to review our recruitment processes once again now that we are in a process of finding three new national auditors to an operation that has not only a tough time but is now also facing a major review. I hope that today's decision will be a key piece of the puzzle in a restored confidence in the National Audit Office and would like to call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved.
i-TrNnprDWFjzi1ZZZhyh1Hh	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee proposes a review of the Swedish National Audit Office and the Riksdag's relationship with the Swedish National Audit Office. The intention is for the Riksdag to decide on an investigation commission. Today's News report on the Swedish National Audit Office during the summer and the consequence of it, that all three national auditors decided to resign, is of course a very worrying background. The Swedish National Audit Office is a very important authority that is to review that state authorities conduct their activities in the way that the Riksdag and the Government have commissioned them to do. I do not think that the national auditors who took office last year or the National Audit Office have misjudged their scrutiny of the authorities. The ambition of the new auditors has been very clear to improve the quality of the audit of the authorities, including through recruitment. But the national auditors have made some errors, which become serious if we look at them from the perspective that those who examine others themselves must set a good example. The rules governing the activities of all authorities must be followed. During the summer, Governor Margareta Åberg commissioned the Parliamentary Ombudsman, Professor Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger, to investigate whether there have been formal errors and shortcomings in the management and management of the change work carried out by the three new national auditors. On 12 October, Axberger submitted his report of the mission to the Swedish National Audit Office and to us in the Constitutional Committee. Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger's report together with the extensive media reporting during the summer and the background information on the establishment of the Swedish National Audit Office that the KU's office has produced are now the basis for the investigation mission that the KU wants the Riksdag to decide on. Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger presented his overall observations in eight points, which now becomes an important basis for the investigation work. His points were
i-edb5540c82cd2689-87	I'm going to go in a little bit more detail on the points. In terms of independence, Axberger points out that the Swedish National Audit Office was created to review the government and its authorities. The Swedish National Audit Office must keep a distance from those audited, including by avoiding recruitment directly from the Government Office. As regards informal management structure, Axberger points out that there is an informal culture within the Swedish National Audit Office. Own considerations and internal practices take precedence over legal rules. External supervision is needed. With regard to the efficiency audit, he points out that Parliament must state what it wants from the efficiency audit, as well as what it should do. Should we devote ourselves to tasks that should be reserved for democratically elected bodies? As far as the annual audit is concerned, Axberger believes that it has fallen into the shadow of the efficiency audit. This can be remedied by giving a national auditor with auditor competence responsibility for that part of the operation. As far as the head office is concerned, Axberger points out that the Riksdag is not designed for government control. However, even formally independent institutions during the Riksdag must be checked. Parliament should adapt to this. Under the point of politics, he points out that the Swedish National Audit Office was negotiated during disagreement. The compromise with three national auditors has led to problems. He believes that a continued exclusive audit during the Riksdag requires political agreement on the substance. If you do not solve it, you should find other solutions than the current Swedish National Audit Office. As far as legislation is concerned, he points out that Parliament does not have the tools to run complex legislative projects on its own. This is evident in the Swedish National Audit Office's regulations, which have significant shortcomings. As regards the duties of the national auditors, Axberger points out that six of the eight national auditors who have been elected under full mandate, i.e. seven years, have given up their duties prematurely. It indicates shortcomings related to the mission, not to those who have been elected. In order to move forward, constitutional changes may be needed. In the meantime, the auditors can divide their tasks in order to solve these problems. Axberger has presented these observations to us and to the Swedish National Audit Office. They are now an important basis for the parliamentary inquiry that we want to be set up. Parliament's previous decisions on the organisation of the Swedish National Audit Office with three auditors are also criticised. The background to the fact that we have three national auditors perhaps some have forgotten. But it was because a government, with Bosse Ringholm as Minister of Finance, had problems with a strong and critical national accountant, Inga-Britt-Britt Ahlenius. So, instead, there were three national auditors. Now we have had important joint experiences. Not least in the KU, as I judge it, we have acquired a good basis for the investigation that will create a better order when it comes to the Swedish National Audit Office and the Riksdag's governance of the Swedish National Audit Office. Mr President, I would like to I call for approval of the Constitutional Committee's proposal in the report Review of the Swedish National Audit Office.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-99	Mr President, I would like to A great deal has been said. Several have clearly explained the matter and our proposal for an investigation. I think it is good that the committee agrees on the proposal for a review of the Swedish National Audit Office. Where we're going to land later is another thing. But since we agree on what we want you to look further at, the possibilities for later agreeing on the rest are greater than if we had had different opinions about the review itself. The Swedish National Audit Office, as everyone has said, is an important part of the control power. Of course, it is a good thing if we have as much agreement as possible on the regulatory framework and the conditions for the agency. I agree with much of what Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson described about governance and the independence of the Swedish National Audit Office. Many have referred to Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger's investigation. I agree that it highlights and highlights several problems. But it also modify some of the criticisms that existed in the media. It sort of balances in between. I would like to remind you that we are now hopefully going to have a broader investigation carried out by more people. And it is not certain that it lands in the same conclusions as Axberger has. We will look at this from a broader perspective. We're not supposed to believe that this investigation is a fact. An important issue raised by Axberger and highlighted by Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson is the relationship between the Swedish National Audit Office and the Riksdag. It is clear that the Riksdag should not decide how reviews should be made or interfere in what conclusions are drawn. But we must have such a relationship with the Swedish National Audit Office that we have a clear idea of the Swedish National Audit Office's role in the control power. We'll know what kind of questions and which parts you look at there. It is also important that we have a parliament that has such great knowledge of how the Swedish National Audit Office works that we can defend our control authority when it starts to blow. If we have an effective and good national audit, it will of course sometimes come up with criticisms and views that will probably be questioned. Not all government agencies are always perfect at all times. We may at times think that our government has made sure that a certain authority is doing well, and perhaps we feel that what comes out of some criticism is not very good. But I think it is important that we have a knowledge and cooperation with the Swedish National Audit Office that allows us to trust that what is done is correct. Then we can also stand up for our national auditors when the wind blows. It is an important part of getting a national audit that dares to carry out independent audits of what is to be reviewed. Then, of course, it must not be so tight that one defends the Swedish National Audit Office even if it has not done anything that is good. But it's really important to find that balance. What has happened is, among other things, that the Swedish National Audit Office has become like a free ball that goes around. We have been informed of what we are doing, but we have not been able to have the cooperation that we should have. There we need more control, and that is important and would be good. I hope this will be a solid investigation. Our proposal to focus on the investigation really makes for this to be something that we can use and do something really good out of.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-109	Mr President, I would like to It is a united KU that, after many readings, hearings and meetings now in this report, proposes a thorough review of the National Audit Office. The report deals with various issues that the review will address, including the auditors, the Riksdag and the Swedish National Audit Office. I do not want to believe that there is any connection between the fact that it was about when I was elected to the committee that the revolutionary news that we are referring to today appeared in the News of Today. Internal change as well as efficiency, recruitment procedures and possible irregular contacts were mentioned, and although we as decision-makers must always be careful about blindly rushing into the direction of public opinion, the data were sufficiently worrying because they needed to be taken very seriously. However, as the previous speaker has mentioned, it was not serious enough for us to dismiss the national auditors, something that was raised in major headlines in the newspapers as an absolute requirement. Now, four months later with three national auditors who have or are in the process of leaving their assignments, we stand here and report and debate what we consider necessary to investigate together to see a way forward for the Swedish National Audit Office. As we all know, the Swedish National Audit Office has also been the subject of investigations in the past, and possibly we can say that the issues we are now proposing for review are partly the result of issues that previous investigations either missed or possibly got a little wrong in. In terms of research in the field, it has also largely reflected the problems that emerged during the autumn in particular, i.e. the lack of independence and independence in relation to the Riksdag, the management of the National Audit Office, the three-part administration and the division of tasks between the national auditors. When it comes to the role of the national auditors, are they primarily appointed to ensure the quality of the audit, or primarily to manage and develop the operations and their relationships? How should a long-term absence be handled? There has been a lack of a clear recipient of the audit reports and uncertainty as to whether the reports would be useful at all. How can interest in the state audit increase among members of parliament and committees? And who is reviewing the National Audit Office? Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger's investigation – initiated by Margareta Åberg – to which reference has been made in the past, addresses in particular some of the points that have also been highlighted in the research. For me, it is extremely important that we examine the independence and the issues surrounding it. Again, what does independence mean? It is also extremely important to look further at the informal management culture. Parliament also needs to go in and define the efficiency audit to see what we mean and what we want. The annual audit has obviously not been given sufficient attention. Again regarding the headship: The Riksdag is obviously not designed for the control of this authority. I shall abbreviated my point of view because many of my colleagues have expressed such excellent views and views. The committee believes that a parliamentary study should be set up to review this and further points raised here today. Mr President, I would like to We politicians, like the National Audit Office, are very much in the trust business. That is why the forthcoming investigation, on which we hope the House will decide, is extremely important. A functioning national audit body contributes to enlightened citizens and decision-makers by providing us with independent, objective and reliable information, which together is the basis for a functioning democracy. With these words, I would like to thank my colleagues and the Office for their very constructive work together. This shows how seriously we take this issue. It also clearly shows that we are all aware that Sweden needs a strong national audit that is independent and independent, but is not abandoned by the strong interests of the Riksdag. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-122	Mr President, I would like to I was going to approach the question a little bit from another direction. Sweden's democracy and Sweden's prosperity rest on strong trust in our institutions. These include:
i-edb5540c82cd2689-124	the government, the authorities and the exercise of the ruling power, the Head of State and relations with third countries, the judiciary and – of course – the examining and revising power. In addition, there are civil powers, where both public freedoms and the exercise of power and journalism belong to central parts of democracy. There should be no doubt that these centres of power are inalienable parts of a functioning country. They form – both individually and together – a cohesive kit from which our society can be built. On its basis, we as individuals, family members, entrepreneurs, association participants, politically active or in other qualities have been given the opportunity to shape our lives to the benefit of ourselves, our loved ones and the common good. The role of institutions for democracy and prosperity is well known. Already in 1993, researchers Douglass North and Robert Fogel were Fogel the so-called Nobel Prize in Economics for their research into the role of institutions for prosperity. In their research compilation Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty from 2012, researchers Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson conduct a thorough review of how society's economic and political rules of the game had an impact on history. Their conclusion is as simple as it is challenging for us here: the institutions are the most important factor in explaining why some countries are rich and others are poor. It is important to recall this when we discuss the Swedish National Audit Office and the review of how the state administration functions. It may seem to be a narrow subject, but a well-functioning revision of our state apparatus is an inalienable part of our democracy. It is also a necessary foundation to ensure that our institutions function as intended: in support of our prosperity and for the common good. Mr President, I would like to Many good things have been said here about the joint report. I am not going to do any deep diving in the events that have led us here. It is clear that errors have been made at the Swedish National Audit Office, this has been revealed both in the media review and in the independent review carried out by Professor Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger. However, mistakes have also been made here from the Swedish Parliament, which has not discovered and corrected in time what already years ago would have had to lead to the review that we are going to make today's decision to set up. The explanations for this are partly also mentioned in Axberger's review. It is not in Parliament's role to govern authorities. We only have two other authorities in our enclosure, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, and the Riksbank. Both these authorities enjoy a great deal of autonomy. I am also thinking of the image of the Swedish National Audit Office that has been given in the public debate. There is often talk of the independence of the Swedish National Audit Office, that there should not be any outsider who exerts influence or can comment on how the Swedish National Audit Office works. In fact, the Swedish National Audit Office and its management, like other public activities, are in need of advice and guidance, both from the parliament that has appointed it and from society as a whole. It is important, not least for the Swedish National Audit Office to also protect its trust, that it is not allowed to develop its own culture that is above all criticism from outsiders. Something independent in the sense that the Swedish National Audit Office should always be left to have its own activities audited, the legislator has never intended either. However, the Swedish National Audit Office will of course enjoy a large degree of independence in how to carry out its work within the framework that has been given. I think there are reasons for clarification here, and we in the Christian Democrats are pleased that this question is included in the review. In addition, I would like to highlight the importance of giving us a thorough review of the arrangements that have been in place for the Swedish National Audit Office to date. Has it been appropriate to allow three national auditors to share the responsibility for governing an authority, or should we have a different system of greater specialisation? Should auditors be irreplaceable for other than serious omissions, even if they have exhausted their confidence in a qualified majority in the Riksdag? And is it appropriate to review the terms of departure and the terms of office of the auditors, given that so many of those appointed so far have chosen not to fulfil their mandates? This and many other questions we hope to find answers to crisis democrats. As I have highlighted in this speech, it is an issue that is important not only for the National Audit Office and its employees but for the entire Swedish society, its institutions and the wealth-creating forces that serve our common good. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-138	Mr President, I would like to Björn von Sydow has reviewed the background to the KU's proposal to establish an investigation into the future position and organisation of the Swedish National Audit Office. I will talk about the directive to be drawn up for a forthcoming parliamentary inquiry. The legitimacy of the Swedish National Audit Office also affects the legitimacy of democratic governance. As we heard earlier, it is extremely important that citizens have confidence in the institutions that support society for the functioning of our democracy and for the cost of transactions in our society to be as low as possible. We Social Democrats believe that the starting point for the investigation should be that the Swedish National Audit Office is still located under the Riksdag and that its position should be regulated by constitutional law. On the other hand, it is important that the present system of three national auditors, one with an administrative responsibility, is investigated. Based on the investigation carried out by Axberger and based on other observations, there seem to be problems with this form of organisation. Other models could be considered, such as the model available to the Ombudsman for Justice with a Chief Ombudsman for Justice. It should also be considered whether a change can be made easier by moving the provisions to the parliamentary order, as we have heard previous speakers mention. Clearly, a problem arises when confidence is exhausted. The rules for dismissal are so difficult that there is a risk of having a national audit that completely lacks Parliament's confidence. Of course, there is a balance between the independence of the Swedish National Audit Office and the issue of trust. If something is to be done about this, we must have a regulation in which a qualified majority is required to dismiss national auditors because of a lack of trust. However, the issue should be considered. Questions concerning the duration of the term of office, re-election, replacement possibilities and a withdrawal period should also be studied. One particular question regarding the independence of the Swedish National Audit Office is that an authority, even if it is independent, does not fly in the air. There is also a need for accountability and governance by such an authority. How this difficult balance can be organised requires a lot of thought. Many solutions are possible, and the investigation must carefully consider the pros and cons before it sets its foot down. The role of the efficiency audit was increased after 2010. The study should look at whether the regulation needs to be amended in order to clarify and delineate the mandate of the efficiency audit. It may not be the task of the audit to consider, for example, our tax system or government. It has occurred that the Swedish National Audit Office has been represented in external relations in a way that has made the audit's political neutrality questionable. This seriously undermines the legitimacy of the National Audit Office, and we in the Social Democrats would like to point out that the investigation should look at this in particular. In conclusion, the investigation is necessary and important for the Swedish National Audit Office, which is an important part of the control power, to gain renewed confidence from the Swedish people. This will provide a precondition for citizens to have confidence that their resources will be used in a clear and effective manner. The three national auditors now appointed have the important task of making the organisation work well even before any organisational changes have been made. It is important that the reputation of the Swedish National Audit Office is restored as soon as possible. I wish them every success in their difficult and important mission. I call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be endorsed in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-149	Mr President, I would like to It does not really matter that I make this speech. I am not thinking, in the first place, of the fact that the other parties have already decided to vote down our motion, but I am thinking of myself. I will receive my well-advanced parliamentary fee no matter which one. I do not need to make a single speech, do not take part in a vote or attend a single committee meeting for four years. I could even decide not to come here at all and still be able to sign out over $5,000 a month while I might start a massage parlor instead. There are probably some people who think it would be a good idea, but to them I say: Tji got you! I happen to like my mission, so you'll have to drag everything with me and listen to me for a while longer. But just the fact that it's up to my good will and my arbitrary approval gossips that something's not right here. How many of the voters we represent can make a living from freely chosen work, Mr President? Is that even someone? A friend of order may object that our mission is not a regular job, but is indeed a position of trust. It may indeed be true, but then the next question will appear inexorably. How can it be okay for someone who abused this trust to be allowed to continue to receive the same compensation for several years after confidence is exhausted? In some cases, the person in question also receives an income guarantee until the pension. This question will be particularly interesting if we consider at the same time that, according to the Constitution, voters are expected to place their trust in a party rather than in the individual Member who may then carry out one or the other task. I hope and believe that everyone who listens to this deep down realizes that something needs to be done. However, I am aware that it is only the Swedish Democrats who, at least during the current term of office, have put forward concrete proposals on how to tackle the problem. We have done so first in the form of a proposal for a committee initiative from the KU, which all the other parties rejected, and then in a follow-up motion to the Riksdag Board's proposal for a job description to be produced and the parliamentary fee more clearly linked to the members' actual work. This follow-up motion also proposes that all other parties be rejected. It might be worth thinking about. I support both reservations of the Swedish Democrats in the KU3. Now I'm going to sit down and play Pokémon Go on paid working hours, just because I can. Or right, no, I'm not sosse. As long as there is no boring sosse giving some boring speech after me, then maybe I will fall asleep instead! Should it generally become too boring, I can choose to just go in and serve during the summer break or sit down and fiddle on my personal re-election campaign instead of tangled committee documents. Mr President, I would like to The possibilities seem endless. But no, I think it's going to be working on as usual, just because I want to and because I like it.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-159	Mr President, I would like to This matter is in a way quite special. When we discuss things here, in the vast majority of cases large groups of people are involved. It can be large companies; it can apply to everyone in the whole country. In this context, it concerns ourselves, i.e. the Members of Parliament, our conditions and support for the party groups. We are dealing here with a petition from the Riksdag Board and some requests from the general exercise period that are linked to that petition. The Riksdag Board has stated in its presentation that the current regulations governing the members of parliament's financial conditions and benefits are contained in law and various regulations and regulations. It's fragmented and pretty hard to understand. Here there is a proposal to make new legislation. The previous Compensation Act has been in force for over 20 years. It has been amended. It's hard to read and complicated. Now we want a new law that can be understood. This makes it easier for all of us, not least in terms of the transparency and scrutiny of the conditions we have. So the content of the new law is basically the same as in the one that applies now – it's just collected. We think it is a good thing, and it will hopefully be clear. But there are some differences. Provisions have been included giving a member the right to compensation in order to reach the Riksdag in the event of an extraordinary event or for another reason that could not be foreseen. It's in the law. Normally, we are entitled to reimbursement of travel expenses from the home. However, in the case of an extraordinary event, a Member may be somewhere else. Then it has been added that it will be possible to receive reimbursement for travel expenses in this case as well. It is also new that Members themselves should be able to decide on some individual missions abroad, i.e. those going to the EEA, the EU or applicant countries. However, as at present, an amount is fixed for these trips for each parliamentary term. It is within this framework that these decisions can be taken by the person himself rather than by the President. This will be further regulated in the Constitution by the Riksdag Board. With regard to the Act on Support for the Party Groups for the Parliamentary Work, the content of the Act is also largely the same as in the previous Act and various regulations. But it gets better together. The amount of support for party groups and the number of jobs in Parliament's premises will no longer be included in the law, but will be decided by the Riksdag administration. But the regulations for this are adopted by the Riksdag Board, and we think that is perfectly acceptable. So far the Riksdag Board's presentation. Now I'm going to exercise from general exercise time. I'm going to highlight our reservation number three. The Left Party has been exercising for many years that the level of Members' fees is too high. We think the fee is far too high. We now have 62 400 fees per month, and it is now increasing in November. That is more than twice the average income of the people we represent. This makes our relationships very different from those of those we are to represent here in Parliament. Of course it can affect confidence in us. It is clear that the compensation should be good. It is a responsible task to be elected as a member of the Swedish Parliament. But we still think that the fee should be set at a more reasonable level and that we should be able to have a system where there does not need to be discussions or decisions on new listings. Although it is not we who make the decisions, they can always be questioned when they are not linked to something clear. Therefore, we have proposed that the fee should be linked to the price base amount. Today there are 44 300, and we think that is a more reasonable order. We also want the system of additional compensation to be reviewed. As it is now, there are additional fees for Members of Parliament to be chairman or vice-chairman of committees. We believe that it should be the same compensation. It is certainly an extra task, but we think it must be up to the party groups to redistribute so that other parts of the work can be relieved. There are still only 24 hours in 24 hours, and we think that work should be distributed. I am very much in favour of our reservation 3.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-173	Mr President, I would like to Now comes the boring soss that was called for earlier. I can guarantee that Fredrik will not fall asleep in this post. The purpose of the decision we are about to take today is to summarise and bring together the legislation in one and the same law. We clarify the language, and certain parts that were previously regulated by regulations are now regulated by law. As Mia Sydow Mölleby said, there are many rules that have changed during the 20 years since the basic system was decided. It has been incalculable, not only for people from outside who want to see how we are doing, but even for ourselves. At best, we now advise to remedy it. It is therefore about our fees, about overnight accommodation, about travel expenses, about the computer equipment we have the right to have, about what happens when we get sick and how we do to get back to work. Unlike Fredrik, I think it is important that we see that this is a position of trust. It is a mission we shall carry with confidence during the four years we are elected. That's what it's all about. It is not a job of complet or overtime pay. When the previous law was passed, the arguments were that the parliamentary mission is now really a full-time assignment. For me, it definitely is. Comparisons can be made with the remuneration of full-time politicians in municipalities and county councils and many who work in the private business sector. You can always discuss it. The big point is, as we see it, that we do not make our own decisions about our fee. It does the Board of Fees, which consists of people completely outside the shop stewardship role. SD has in its reservation developed an approach that the fee should be based on work input. This is a completely strange thought for us, because our mission is based on the fact that it is the voters and our parties who evaluate our work every four years. When Fredrik took the floor, I was even more provoked. It sounds to him like money is the only driving force we have to accomplish something in this world. With such poor respect for the mission and such a grand view of what is driving forces to change society and the world, the question is whether it is not Fredrik himself who should get the form at the county administrative board that you can use if you want to be freed from his mission. The fact that the Swedish Democrats have concerns with political savages is hardly something that any fee board in the world can remedy. However, all parties can be better at explaining what the mission means and what it is expected of us to do both everyday and weekend – that our working hours are around 365 days a year and that we will be sick even if we get sick on Christmas Eve, to take a few examples of what the mission actually means. Describe that reality! Do not describe your members who are not doing their job here in Parliament! Describe what the work in the Riksdag actually is like! Show some kind of respect for democracy! I think that's reasonable, and I can't help but think that the way you know yourself, you know others. What is ethically and morally justifiable in the role of a Member of Parliament we seem to like very different. Neither can any fee committee in the world remedy that. It comes back to the fact that it is a position of trust, a trust that we gain from our parties and from our voters. I mean, it's binding. That is why it is so good that this law is clear and transparent. Everyone can find out how we are and how we work. Transparency and transparency are at all so important in a democracy. With this, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-184	Mr President, I would like to Berit Högman and I fully agree that it is a great deal of confidence that we get. The vast majority of us also take it as seriously as possible and really tear dog to do this in the best way. However, it sounds a bit false when one claims that it would only be a problem within the Swedish Democrats. Sure, we have had problems within the Swedish Democrats, and I know that among other things Berit Högman's party chairman Stefan Löfven has asked the Swedish Democrats to work with and review these situations, which arise also within other parties. In view of this, we have put forward a number of proposals on how these situations could be dealt with, and it therefore seems rather strange that Berit Högman and the Social Democrats so compactly and unisonously say no to doing this kind of review. At some point the KU tried to – I think it was 1983 – start sketching out what it might mean to be a Member of Parliament. Why are you so compactly opposed to making a proper review and trying to find a clearer link, in support of both the individual Member and the voters, who should put confidence in the parties first? Why do you not want to look at the whole system of government regulations which says that it is in a party that is voted in the first place but that the party still cannot have more of the mandates?
i-edb5540c82cd2689-188	Mr President, I would like to There is plenty of clarity in what a Member of Parliament has to do. We have to work in committees; all Members are placed in committees. We have to work in our constituency. We have to act on the basis of the mandate we have. But what Fredrik ignores is the responsibility of the parties. That responsibility also extends beyond this House. Someone thinks it's okay to run with iron pipes-- I don't think so. It is also about living as we teach as people: to be leaders and role models of a society, because it expects people from us. That's where the test has to be. Who in this house would judge the work effort, if you or I are worth a hundred more or less? Is it the Board of Fees? Is it hourly work we're supposed to have? Is it overtime or complacent? No, it isn't, because it's about a position of trust – a trust we wear around the clock, 365 days a year. It is this insight that is not found in the Swedish Democrats and Fredrik Eriksson.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-191	Mr President, I would like to It's a little funny to hear Berit Högman initially talk about how good the new law is, because it becomes very clear to everyone what rules we have to relate to. But it seems to apply only to certain rules, not to all. As Berit Högman says, a heavy responsibility rests with the parties. But why does Berit Högman not want to give the parties the tools needed to better assume this responsibility?
i-edb5540c82cd2689-193	Mr President, I would like to The parties have a 100% responsibility for which candidates sit here in the Swedish Parliament. The parties can do this during the nomination process, preparation and self-introduction. Then the Riksdag does a fantastic work with the introduction to the Riksdag system. But the work ethic and ethics can no one bear but me and you as individuals, and it is quite obvious that we wear it in different ways. Then it may be difficult to explain this to the common man, because it is not a job. I usually say to people, "Please come with me one day or two, and you'll see how we're doing here!" Many take advantage of that opportunity, and it feels good.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-195	Mr President, I would like to I was about to say a warm welcome to the audience in the gallery, but now they have just left. It was very nice of you to be here! First of all, I support the committee's proposal and reject the motions. The report contains three reservations. I will basically dwell on the report, and I agree to a large extent with the Social Democrat, Berit Högman, on what she has said. The committee broadly endorses the Riksdag Board's proposal for a new law on the remuneration of members of the Riksdag and a new law on support for the party groups for the parliamentary work in the Riksdag and its authorities and bodies, as well as some consequential amendments to other legislation. The exceptions are not many. They concern a transitional provision, a corrected paragraph reference and some mainly regulatory, editorial and linguistic adjustments. The new legislation repeals the 1994 Act on Financial Conditions for Members of Parliament and largely incorporates the current provisions into the new Act on Remuneration to Members of Parliament. The new law also brings together a little more than before: other provisions in the field that have previously been contained in regulations and guidelines. These include the right to accommodation and study, children's activities and access to parking space. Furthermore, the draft law includes provisions whereby a member is entitled to compensation in order to reach the Riksdag in the event of an extraordinary event or for another reason that could not be foreseen. This is now being regulated. In addition, MEPs are proposed to have the right to decide for themselves on certain international journeys. Mia Sydow Mölleby also addressed these issues. The committee shares the opinion of the Riksdag Board that there should not be a right to reimbursement of travel expenses from and to a dwelling other than the home residence, i.e. primarily a holiday home, and a place where the Member of Parliament performs his/her duties. In this part there is no objection to the bill in any motion. In addition, the bill replaces the 1999 Act on support for the work of members of parliament and party groups in parliament with a new law. In terms of content, the new law on support for party groups is very similar to the previous one and contains provisions on basic support for party groups and support for the costs of political secretaries and foreign travel. In addition, it will be regulated that one is entitled to a party's office, accountability, reimbursability and entitlement to support for language training. With regard to the proposed entry into force and transitional provision in paragraph 3, the committee considers that there is no need for it in view of the Parliament's authorisation to make provision for support to the political secretaries. That provision should therefore be deleted. The proposed amendments to the 1989 Fees Act include the transfer of the regulation of meeting fees to the EU Board to the new Remuneration Act. The proposal for a new law on the remuneration of Members of Parliament does not make any substantive changes to the actual fees or the arrangements for determining them. In both the previous Act, the 1994 Compensation Act, and the proposed Act, the remuneration is regulated through the Parliament's Remuneration Board; this applies both to the level and to the fee itself. The legislation is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2017.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-202	Mr President, I would like to The KU4 report deals with a review of the financial administration of the Parliament's authorities. It is a united KU that supports this report, and we do not get close to the drama that we experienced with the two previous reports. Nevertheless, it is important, for information purposes, to mention briefly and in some of the selected parts of what this report is about and what the KU has come up with. The background is that the law with financial administrative provisions etc. m. for the Riksdag Administration, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen and the Swedish National Audit Office, also known as the REACH Act, entered into force on 1 January 2007. The purpose of the Act was, on the one hand, to provide greater clarity on the obligations and powers of the parliamentary authorities in the field of financial control, and, on the other hand, to simplify the parliamentary governance of the authorities and clarify the division of powers between the Riksdag and its authorities. During the period that has passed since the entry into force of the REACH Act, the Government's provisions on financial power have changed and a new Budget Act has entered into force. We have also been able to draw experience from the application of the law over the years. The Swedish National Board has therefore seen that there has been a need to review the REACH Act both in terms of content and language, in order to ensure that the legislation is relevant and appropriate. The Swedish Parliament Board thus decided in March 2014 to commission a committee to review the REACH Act and the relevant regulations. According to the directives, the Committee would clarify the regulatory framework, review the regulatory structure and propose an adaptation of the regulatory framework to the current budgetary law. By an announcement from the Riksdag, questions about the management of the so-called management pensions have also been investigated. The Committee submitted its proposal on 1 September 2015. That is what we in the KU have now dealt with. I will also mention that no motions have been made in connection with the presentation. Mr President, I would like to It has turned out that the amendments are so thorough and comprehensive that they should not be implemented in the existing law. The work has resulted in the Swedish Parliament's Board of Directors having decided instead to replace the REACH Act with a new law, which will be called the law on budget and financial administration for the Swedish Parliament's authorities. The new law and amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2017. The new law will also be more consistent with the Budget Act. The majority of the amendments to the new Act in relation to the REACH Act are intended not to imply any change in substance. On the other hand, the amendments aim in particular to bring the provisions into line with the corresponding provisions of the Budget Act, to clarify them by means of linguistic changes, to introduce concepts or to address them more clearly to the authorities. There are also some substantial changes. Furthermore, it is proposed that clarification be made in the Act with instructions for the Swedish Parliament Administration regarding the right of the administration to charge fees for the leasing of apartments and premises in the agency's properties. The report says that such charges should be calculated on a market-based basis. Furthermore, according to the proposal, and in line with the REACH Act, the new law shall not apply to the activities of the parliamentary committees. In order to clarify the relationship of responsibility between the Riksdag Administration and the Riksdag Board of Governors in financial matters, the Riksdag Board proposes an amendment to the RACs' instructions that they should report annually to the Riksdag the costs associated with their activities. An explicit regulation of the accounts would help to increase transparency towards the Riksdag and the public. To conclude, I would like to mention briefly something about the management pensions. Each authority under the Riksdag shall be responsible for commitments regarding senior pensions to officials of the Agency. This means that the Authority shall also disclose such commitments in accordance with GAAP. The Swedish Parliament's Board has therefore made the assessment that it should be made clear in the regulations to the law that a commitment to management pensions should be reported when a decision has been made that management pensions should be paid out. Furthermore, the Riksdag Board proposes that provisions for senior pensions be entered against the appropriations for the financial year to which the expenditure relates. The latter is in the light of how responsibility for and accounting for senior pensions can be clarified for all authorities during the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to The KU welcomes the fact that there has been a review of the regulations and proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Riksdag Board's proposal for changes to the financial administrative framework for the Riksdag's authorities. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-209	Mr President, I would like to I call for the committee's proposal to be approved. As Emanuel Öz said, there are no accompanying motions for this proposal. If we are to be honest, the proposal is quite technical and not very controversial, but I was going to dwell on it a little bit, but a little shorter than Emanuel Öz. The committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Riksdag Board's proposal for changes to the financial administrative framework of the Riksdag's authorities. The proposal, as Emanuel Öz said, means, among other things, that a new law, the law on the budget and financial administration of the Parliament's authorities, will replace the law with financial regulations, etc. for the Riksdag Administration, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen and the Swedish National Audit Office, also known as the REACH Act. The new law has been clarified and adapted to ensure that the legislation is relevant and appropriate. Among other things, the law has been amended so that the structure and language are more consistent with the Budget Act, which is desirable. The starting point should continue to be that the economic administrative framework for the Riksdag authorities in both content and language should comply with the rules applicable to the Government and its authorities, unless specific reasons justify a deviation. According to the proposal, the new Act, like the previous REACH Act, should not apply to the activities of the Parliamentary Board authorities. In order to clarify the relationship of responsibility between the Riksdag Administration and the Riksdag Board of Governors in financial matters, the Riksdag Board of Directors proposes an amendment to the Board's instructions that the Board of Governors should also report on the costs associated with the activities in the annual report of the Board of Governors. In addition, the proposal provides a clarification in the Act with instructions for the Swedish Parliament Administration regarding the right of the administration to charge fees for the leasing of apartments and premises in the agency's properties and that the instructions indicate that such fees should be calculated on market grounds.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-212	Mr President, I would like to In this report, the Constitutional Committee proposes that the Parliament adopt the Government's proposal for a law with additional provisions to the EU regulation on European political parties and European political foundations, and that the Government adopt amendments to the Accounting Act, the Audit Act, the Income Tax Act and the Tax Procedure Act. As with the report we have just debated, it is a united KU that supports this report, and the government's legislative proposals have not met with any objections in any motion. I will try to be brief, but I still think it is worth mentioning something about this report. The background to the report is: In autumn 2014, the EU regulation on the statute and funding of European political parties and European political foundations, also known as the EUPP regulation, was adopted. I will continue to call it the regulation. The regulation introduces two new forms of European association: political parties and political foundations. It is assumed that an organisation has the status of a European political party or foundation in order to obtain funding from the EU general budget. The aim of the regulation is to provide parties and foundations with a better legal and financial framework to promote and strengthen representative democracy at European level. According to the report, the regulatory framework does not affect national parties or foundations. Mr President, I would like to The Regulation is binding and directly applicable in each Member State and shall not be incorporated or transformed into national law. However, Swedish law needs to be adapted to the regulation in some parts. The Government therefore proposes that the national provisions resulting from the EUPP Regulation be incorporated as far as possible into the existing acquis and that those provisions that cannot be incorporated into existing laws be incorporated into a new law that complements the Regulation. The report draws some parallels to Swedish non-profit associations. In Swedish law, political parties are considered to be non-profit associations purely by association law. The requirements imposed on an association for it to be registered as a European political party in terms of statutes and administration mean that, according to a Swedish view, it is to be judged as a non-profit association. The Government also notes that European political foundations have a stated non-profit purpose and that they also otherwise have great similarities with non-profit associations. For these reasons, Mr President, it is proposed that a European political party and a European political foundation in Swedish law should be equated with a non-profit association. However, unlike non-profit associations in general, they should always be accountable for accounting and close the accounts with an annual report. Furthermore, only an authorised or approved auditor shall be able to be an auditor of a European political party or of a European political foundation. According to the report, the obligation to draw up an annual report should be regulated in the Accounting Act because related laws, such as the Annual Accounts Act and the Audit Act, thus become automatically applicable to European political parties and foundations. Finally, Mr President, I will just mention that the report proposes to treat European political parties and foundations as their own tax entities, as they are proposed to have legal recognition and legal capacity in all Member States. It is therefore proposed to amend the Income Tax Act and the Tax Procedure Act in order to bring tax law into line with these two new forms of association. The legislative amendments mentioned in the report are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2017, which is the date of application of the regulation. In the light of this brief speech, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-220	Mr President, I would like to Someone might ask: Could this really be something to register? These are new rules on the registration of gifts that we Members can receive. I'm sure there are many of you who have heard the true story of Aina Erlander. After Tage's resignation as Prime Minister, she went back to the Government Office with five pens, as it was clearly shown that the pens belonged to the State Administration. Then it wasn't Tage's pens. Those were government pens. Aina went back with them. I think that story is worth having as a metaphor for how important it is always to think about what is mine, what is someone else's and what we own in common. I think it's important that we register, not least in view of an emerging distrust of what many call the establishment, and that's where we all belong. There are also ignorance and myths that can reinforce this mistrust. We in this House today have been given examples of forces that want to fatten this mistrust. I believe that clear rules and transparency in actions and deeds can increase confidence in us elected representatives. It is necessary and important. This case has its background in the work of the Council of Europe Anti-Corruption Group in 2013. That group is called Greco. The meaning of Grecos's requirements was that an economic register should be established. We already have, but it is a question of adding to it a statement of major debts and financial transactions. It is also about us registering gifts that we receive in the role of Members of Parliament. After this report had arrived, we had a working group in which all parties were represented. It was led by then Vice-President Susanne Eberstein. This led to the bill that we have today. That proposal has also been referred to in the usual procedure. For the purposes of the economic register, the debts, guarantees and other commitments of a member relating to the activities or economic interests of undertakings and associations, property holdings in the form of business activities and gainfully independent activities shall be notified and recorded. Rules for this exist. It should be easy for a Member to do the right thing. In addition to this, we propose an announcement to the Riksdag Board to investigate an adaptation to the General Data Protection Regulation. That is necessary. Mr President, I would like to I believe that with this decision we are taking an important step towards an even greater transparency as to how we Members of Parliament work and work. It is important for democracy. It is important for the Riksdag as an institution. In fact, it is also important to us as humans. That is why I support the proposal in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-228	Mr President, I would like to I really liked Berit Högman's introduction and the anecdote. Respect for the ownership of the state, the common and the individual is, in my view, very important. No physical activity has been induced in connection with this presentation. The committee approves with some amendments the Riksdag Board's proposal for a new law on the registration and handling of gifts received by members of parliament and amendments to the Act on the registration of members of parliament's commitments and financial interests. The committee also supports the Riksdag Board's proposal for a new additional provision in the Riksdag Act but proposes that the bill be slightly amended. It was just as Berit Högman said: In November 2013, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption body, Greco, recommended in a report on Sweden, among other things, that the Riksdag should introduce a code of conduct for members of parliament and that the accounting of members' finances and the regulation of the gifts they receive should be expanded. In view of this, a parliamentary working party was set up. In particular, the legislative proposals require a member who, mainly because of his mandate, receives a gift to report it within two weeks of receiving it. However, this does not apply if the gift lacks or has an insignificant economic value. The thresholds will be included in the Riksdag Board's regulations. The starting point is that the gifts are intended for and belong to the state, not the individual e. In addition, this proposal proposes that a member's debts, guarantees and other commitments relating to the activities or economic interests of companies and associations, property holdings in the form of business and gainfully independent activities should be notified and recorded if they exceed two amounts at the time of notification. Taking advantage of its right of initiative under Chapter 9. Section 16 The Parliamentary Order proposes to the committee an announcement to the Riksdag Board to investigate an adaptation to the General Data Protection Regulation of the new Act on the Registration and Handling of Gifts received by Members of Parliament and the Act on the Registration of Members of Parliament's Obligations and Financial Interests.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-230	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee approves with some minor changes the Swedish Parliament's proposal regarding the registration of gifts and financial commitments. The background is the desire to tighten up the rules in order to avoid risks of corruption. It is Greco, a body within the Council of Europe, who has highlighted the need to tighten up the Swedish rules in this regard. There have also been rules for gift management in the past. It has been mainly, as we understand it, concerns about consumer goods such as food, wine and spirits that you get in connection with various visits, not least internationally. There is a need for some clarification of the rules. The Swedish Parliament Administration has worked on this, and the Swedish Parliament Administration will also be tasked with issuing regulations for the handling of these gifts, where I perceive that there have been some shortcomings. I call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be endorsed in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-233	Mr President, I would like to I shall just briefly note my satisfaction that the committee agrees that it is important that we are clear about the rules, what is to be done and how things should be so that we do not leave everything to the good will and trust of Members themselves. I therefore also support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-234	Mr President, I would like to What we in the Committee on Social Affairs are now debating is about something as important as car support. One might think that this is a detail in the context, but for people with a disability, this is absolutely crucial in order to have the opportunity to get a car that is adapted to the disability one has. This is support with a regulatory framework that is outdated, which has had a lot of rather unreasonable consequences. Moreover, it was an alliance government that initiated a review of car support. We support the changes that are now being proposed, meaning that it is more economically beneficial to get a car that is adapted from the outset than to get a car that will then have to undergo major and costly changes. So, as far as the regulatory framework is concerned, we fully support the proposal that is on the table in this House for decisions. What makes us very, very doubtful is, instead, the tendency that we see from the Green Party and the Social Democrats and now also from the Left Party, namely the consistent use of government power to propose economic cuts and deteriorations for one of the groups that has already been in the most difficult situation in the past. Here a proposal could have been put forward with new, modern rules on how car support would look without combining it with cuts. But you see an opportunity to take money from this group to fund other things. Somehow, Mr President, it has become something of a pattern. It is not just a question of assistance compensation, where the government has also made proposals for deterioration, but now it is also using the car support for the same. This is deeply regrettable, and it sends an extremely unfortunate signal to one of the perhaps most vulnerable groups we have in society, namely those with serious disabilities. I, on behalf of the Center Party, regret that the government is giving the signal that this is a group that can be saved on. We do not have that vision at all. That is why, Mr President, I would also like to endorse the reservation made by the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats in the committee's report, namely that the government should come back with a proposal that is cost-neutral and that does not impose saving requirements on this already vulnerable group.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-241	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 in paragraph 2. Car support is part of disability policy aimed at enabling people with disabilities to live their lives like the rest of us. Our role as politicians is to remove the obstacles that lie in the way. One should be able to move from home to work, for example. That's where the car support comes in. It came back in 1988 and has changed a bit during the journey. A new change is now in place, which means that the costs of car acquisition and adaptation should be reduced if the adjustment is made from the outset. That's what the bill is about. But we do not know, just as Anders W Jonsson said, whether this will be better for people in need of car support. So we want this to be closely followed up from the beginning so that changes can be made. It should not get worse in this regard either for those in need of a car in order to get to work, for example. We also think that the age limit should change. Now it is 65 years old, but you have the right to work to 67 years. Such age limits should therefore follow the change in the retirement age; otherwise it seems illogical. We are in the same line as the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, namely that this needs to be followed closely. We want a broader investigation into the efforts needed to enable disabled people to move between their homes and other places where they need to go. There are examples: we have commuter trains and buses that have not followed developments in terms of enabling people in need of wheelchairs or per-mobiles to make use of these means of transport.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-247	Mr President, I would like to I shall also begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3, which the Christian Democrats have together with the Center Party and which we have already heard of some. I would also like to stress, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, the importance of protecting society's reforms in order to support the most vulnerable. I can understand if you, as a social democrat, feel a little uncomfortable when, in one debate after another, it is highlighted that we see a risk of the government cutting down on the most vulnerable. This started just over a year ago when Magdalena Andersson in a situation where society is under pressure – as a society will always do – pointed out two groups where one saw that one could save money. It was about people who depend on personal assistance and other support within the LSS, and it was about those on sick leave. That is where the government's Finance Minister felt that the government could make savings. This is a matter in which we all agree that modernisation and improvement are needed in order not to waste taxpayers' money. The money should not be enough in relation to what we can actually do. Car support benefits from reform. That was the work that began. Now the product comes, but at the same time there is a risk of being cut back without getting the effect out of them. I hope that in the debate we can hear what the real ambition of the Social Democrats is. Unfortunately, this is another saving on society's most vulnerable.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-252	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the government's proposal for a reformed car subsidy. At the same time, I would urge that all motions on the matter be rejected. As the previous speaker has said, today's debate is about reforming car support. You can get car support in Sweden if you live here for a period of at least one year. However, if you leave the country, you do not have this right. This is a state aid scheme aimed at enabling people with disabilities to have an active and independent life. It is an important benefit in promoting participation in society. That is why it is important for the aid to be used in the best possible way, for it to benefit the individual in the best possible way. That is the aim of the whole proposal. In order to receive the aid, you need to have a permanent disability that makes it difficult for you to move on your own or to use public transport. The car support can also be provided to a parent who has a child with this kind of trouble. The car support can be applied for if you need to adapt a passenger car, motorcycle, moped or other vehicles. It is about acquiring a vehicle and the installation of equipment that makes it possible to travel in the vehicle with the disability. As the aid is designed today, it consists of four components: basic grant, acquisition grant, adjustment allowance and driving licence training. What is the purpose of the government's proposal? It is just as some previous speakers have said. The aim is an effective and efficient system. The retrofitting of vehicle attributes is currently promoted, but it is both cheaper and more efficient and, above all, better for the individual user to get the vehicle adapted in connection with the purchase. Madam President, I would like It is true that the government is proposing to halve the basic grant, which today is 60 000, to 30 000. On the other hand, the government – and this is the difference between the alliance parties – proposes a guarantee of income. If you have a lower income, you get more support. This also means that those with low incomes receive better support, which is an effective distribution policy instrument. The general debate that Anders W Jonsson and Emma Henriksson are having is directly wrong. It is about reducing the gaps that have been formed over eight years of alliance. We are now trying to take steps to close the gaps and thus achieve a more equal and fair society. Madam President, I would like We are also proposing a new form of supplementary subsidy which can be applied for and which will make it economically possible to procure a vehicle. This form of subsidy currently affects some 2 000 people applying for car support. It will cost about SEK 370 – 380 million for the state. The adjustment premium corresponds to 76 – 78 per cent. That is a relatively small amount of money for the state. The purpose of the government proposal is, above all, two things. Low-income people are guaranteed the possibility of acquiring vehicles so that they can have an active and comprehensive life. Furthermore, it is a question of using tax money effectively by using original assembly. It is cheaper and many times more effective for those who need the vehicle. I would like to make it clear that the government will follow this issue closely and make evaluations. Of course, if the reform has the wrong effect, corrections will be made. This is not primarily about saving the state budget, but about a more efficient and fair system.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-263	Madam President, I would like I don't recognize the Social Democrats. It is the party that has always said that you are on the side of the weak. Now the government is putting a proposal on the table of this House which means that for this group of people, those with severe disabilities so that they must have an adapted car, the appropriation is reduced from 328 million to 267 million. It's a tremendously heavy cutback. Mikael Dahlqvist stands in the speaker's chair and claims that the difference between the alliance parties is that we would not be in favour of increasing the income-tested part. It's a direct mistake. Dahlqvist cannot even have read our reservation and our proposals. We write exactly that we are behind the changes in the rules, but we are extremely critical of the fact that the government is not content with modernising the rules on car support for people with severe disabilities, but also squeezes into saving. There is no small savings in the budget from SEK 328 million to SEK 267 million. Madam President, I would like Why could one not have satisfied himself, Mikael Dahlqvist, just as the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and others have proposed, with making the changes without tightening the thumb screws on the already vulnerable group? So this is a saving from SEK 328 million to SEK 267 million. It is totally unreasonable for me to understand that the party, the Social Democrats, which has always said that it is on the side of the weak, has been consistently putting forward proposals for a year now aimed at squeezing that particular group. Furthermore, the Green Party, and on top of all the Left Party, is behind the proposals. Now the Left Party is not even present in the debate. Madam President, I would like I can almost understand why you do not even want to defend the proposal that involves such a tough saving on a group that is actually having a difficult time. Why not present the proposal without tightening the thumb screws on the group that is having a tough time? That is my question to Mikael Dahlqvist.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-270	Madam President, I would like We often hear in the debate that the government is cutting down and worsening for the most vulnerable. I regret, Anders W. Jonsson, that the opposition is using that rhetoric. It would be honest if we had a fair platform as a starting point for the discussion. Let us include the LSS in the debate. Already in 2009, you looked at the possibility of reducing costs, but you did not have the political ability or the leadership to implement this. That we have different opinions may be happening. However, as a representative of the government, it is important to me that we are honest in the debate, and the aim of the proposal is, on the one hand, that assembly should take place in connection with purchases and, on the other hand, that there should be a more equal income test for those who have low incomes. The number of savings you mention, Anders W Jonsson, I do not have here, but I have figures from the Ministry of Social Affairs that it is a maximum of 20 million on an annual basis. Yes, I have read your motions, and it says that it should be a cost-neutral proposal. My counter-question is, how do you intend your proposals to fit into today's framework?
i-edb5540c82cd2689-275	Madam President, I would like I have to repeat the question. When you read in the budget, you see that the proposal is a cut from 328 million to 267 million. The government could have been content to make the proposal originally made by the alliance government. The investigation is a product of the Alliance government. The government could have proposed modernisation of the car support rules without reducing from 328 million to 267 million. Why should you constantly go after one of the groups that is absolutely the worst in society and that is having a tough time right from the start? Why are they the very ones you are going to make such a huge saving on? This is the question I ask Mikael Dahlqvist and I do not get an answer to. It is clear that Mikael Dahlqvist has not understood this with a cost-neutral proposal. According to the reservation of the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, the government should have put forward a proposal that does not mean saving, but merely modernising car support. Then the budget would have been like this: 328 million for 2016 and 328 million for 2017. But this is obviously not the case, but it is a massive reduction directed directly at people who are having a very tough time. My question is once again: why did you not do as we proposed, that is, put forward these rules but made sure that it was cost-neutral, so that you did not combine it with a substantial saving? That is where our criticism lies. Madam President, I would like Let me repeat that I do not recognise the Social Democrats. They have always said that they are on the side of the weak, but for a year now it is a matter of attacking the group of people with severe disabilities. This is proof of that again. The Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party are putting forward proposals in this House that are hitting the people who are the toughest. Why not instead put forward a proposal that is cost-neutral, that is to say introduce modern rules without at the same time implementing savings?
i-edb5540c82cd2689-284	Madam President, I would like I hear you repeat your mantra that we are stinging at those who have the worst, but I still wonder about your analysis, Anders W Jonsson. If, with this proposal, we get the savings of 19 million that the Ministry of Social Affairs has calculated, we still have to see. This depends on whether the effects are achieved, in particular with regard to retrofitting versus original assembly of vehicle attributes. Perhaps it will be the same price situation as today or even more expensive. We will follow up and evaluate the proposal, and if, in all probability, it has the consequences that you fear, we will of course adjust. Unlike the Center Party, we are on the side of the weak. Just look at the budget in general. We are making another redistribution of resources. It is we who have contributed 10 billion extra to the welfare and municipalities. We are the ones who are making reinforcements in health care. We are the ones who are making sure that the gaps in society are reduced. According to the estimates I've seen, the gaps in society between the poor and the rich increased during your eight years. So let us have an honest debate on what we are discussing, because I do not recognise the criticism. Believe me, I'm the first to sign that we're going to make sure that those who need the most help will get it too.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-289	Madam President, I would like Car support enables people to continue in their working lives up to the age. When we received the new pension system almost 20 years ago, the right to remain in the workplace was extended from 65 to 67 years. However, a number of legal clauses have not been accepted, but remain at the 65-year limit, and we have been nagging and nagging that car support should be possible up to the 67th anniversary. Would it not have been better to leave the previous amount of 328 million behind and at the same time raise the age limit from 65 to 67 years? I am not sure that the money would be enough, but it means a lot to people to feel safe that they are not pushed out of work prematurely. It is so important to feel that you are a part of society and that you are needed. It's not about that many people, but every individual is important.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-294	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Barbro for the question. The aim of the modernisation and reform is, on the one hand, to adapt vehicles directly to purchases and, on the other hand, to enable those with a low income to acquire a vehicle. If there is a saving for the public purse, as some claim, or not, we will have to evaluate in due course. Today's proposal is car support up to 65 years, but car support up to 67 years, as you advocate, is not an unreasonable idea. Based on the evaluation and follow-up that will take place continuously after the entry into force of the proposal, it is reasonable to look at different parameters, and such a parameter may be just the age line. At the same time, it is important for the state financial system and already for proposals to be submitted that are covered within the financial framework, and that should be borne in mind. The future will tell this when one looks at how the new reform works.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-299	Madam President, I would like This means a great deal to the people involved, but it is money that hardly affects the state budget at all. The state budget is multibillion dollars, and here we discuss 328 million SEK and 267 million respectively. Instead of giving a signal to these people that they are important to society and that we intend to live up to the human right that everyone should be able to live their lives as they want, we stand here and discuss these amounts. There's a punch in the face of the people it touches. The second issue I raised concerns the broader investigation. Now it is the focus on car support, but it is all about accessibility efforts that are needed. In one case, a woman sitting on a per-mobile would travel from Gotland to a meeting in the Government Office. She came by boat, but from the boat to the commuter train in Nynäshamn it was stopped all the way. We need to do something about this, and that is why we are calling for a broader study on accessibility. How do the Social Democrats view it?
i-edb5540c82cd2689-303	Madam President, I would like Of course we want to create as good conditions as possible for people with special needs, Barbro Westerholm. Then it becomes problematic with the fact that we have different heads. You referred to transport between different counties and regions, which includes different forms of systems – everything from municipal to regional and national systems. But it is clear that, together with, above all, SKL, in this case, we must ensure that uniform transport works for the individual. We already have systems which I think work quite well in general, such as the National Transport Service and so on, and which in many cases have adapted vehicles. However, this is a point that I think should be taken in some form when looking at and evaluating future disability policies. Right now we are looking at a new disability strategy, so let's see what comes out in those parts.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-306	Madam President, I would like I cannot say that it will be easier to understand what the Government's ambitions are after hearing Mikael Dahlqvist's speech or, for that matter, the answers in the previous lines. It is worrying to hear that Mikael Dahlqvist does not recognise the figures referred to by Anders W Jonsson and myself, because they come from the government's own budget. If anyone wants to look into it afterwards, they are in the section dealing with Category 9 on health care, which the Committee on Social Affairs has to deal with, on p. 116. This appropriation is called 4:3. It clearly states that in the 2016 budget proposal, the appropriation was SEK 328 million. For the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 it is 267 million. From 328 to 267 – it is a reduction that is quite extensive. Mikael Dahlqvist then referred to the government's estimate that the change could save 19 million, on the grounds that we should stick to the truth. Yes, but then I think we should read what is in the bill that the government has put forward. For anyone who wants to check the bill, it's on p. 124. It states that the result of the change is – 18.9 –– 29, 2. So it's not certain that it's 19-- it might as well be 29. If you cut a grant that has been over 300 million by 29 million, it is a reduction of 9 or 10 percent. It is a rather large reduction in an area that concerns people in great need of action. Our proposal has not been about fundamentally changing, but about maintaining the level.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-310	Madam President, I would like Emma Henriksson from the Christian Democrats claims that I have not read our own budget, but thank God she came into the figures at the end. I said there could be a saving of 19 million, but it is true that there can also be a saving of 30. I don't know what kind of numbers I've entered wrong before. You know as well as I, Emma Henriksson, that this is due to the expected effects of requesting quotes from vehicle performers. You then ask for what can be achieved in the expected power with original mounted parts, unlike retrofitted. Unlike you, Emma Henriksson, I represent a party that makes a different distribution of resources. The proposal clearly provides greater support if you have low income and less support if you have a high income. If, contrary to all expectations, this has effects that we do not want, it is clear in the proposal and also in the committee's documents that we will evaluate and review. If necessary, we are likely to make adjustments.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-313	Madam President, I would like You can stick to the truth by saying only a small part of it. I think that those who are in attendance and who have to take a position on what we are doing in politics in this House have the right not only to hear the part of the truth that the speaker thinks most speaks in its favour. If we have a basis for taking decisions in this House that says that there is somewhere between 19 and 29, I think that this should be reported, not just the lower part of the scale. I believe that the level of debate would benefit. I certainly do not blame any Social Democrats for not having read their own budget, but it is therefore a little strange when you say that you do not recognise the figures when we refer to figures that are in that particular budget. If you make savings of about 9%, it will have consequences for people. There is nothing in the government's budget bill that says that demand is decreasing, but on the contrary it is clearly written that demand for car support is increasing. More people are in need of this support. What is in our proposal is not what the Social Democrats are suggesting in the debate, namely that we do not want to make changes in the way the regulatory framework is used and how it should benefit those who need it best. What we are saying is that the government should have put forward a proposal that is cost-neutral. We are making the changes to make more effective use of taxpayers' money, not to make additional savings – as the government wants – to those groups that are already most vulnerable in our society. The question is: why do the Social Democrats not want to say that this could be a saving of about 9%? Why do you not want to explain why you are prepared to make that saving, Mikael Dahlqvist? You could well have put forward a proposal that does not mean that there is a saving.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-318	Madam President, I would like There will be a debate that is incredibly much about figures right now from your side, Emma Henriksson. I said that we should be honest in the debate, and that applies to you too. You're not being so honest either, but you're being a little awkward. In the proposal, the greatest savings, which we believe and hope for, are original-mounted versus retrofitted parts. It is about 50 million. It is true that we are halving the basic allowance, but we are introducing a new supplementary premium for the acquisition of vehicles. We are also introducing an income guarantee so that those with low incomes receive more support. If you have a high income, you probably get less support, but then you may not be in the same need for support. I think this is a good distribution policy. If there were to be such consequences as Emma Henriksson suggests, it is clearly stated in the bill that we will evaluate and follow up the proposal for a decision. Then there is a general view of the welfare sector, and I believe that the government is making substantial improvements, unlike what it was like during the eight years of the Alliance, when tax cuts were prioritised. If we go into an individual account, which is very important to many people who need it, it is clear that there can be changes. But let's see what the effects are.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-323	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate and decide on the proposal for a reformed car subsidy. Policies play an important role in reducing the exclusion of people with disabilities. The labour force participation rate is significantly lower for people with disabilities compared to the rest of the population. Society's efforts to reduce barriers and enable people with disabilities to work are very important. Then there must be no obstacles or limitations. All humans have an inherent ability, power and potential. But sometimes it is limited for physical or psychological reasons. In these cases, society must support, facilitate and help people to live their lives according to their individual circumstances. People with disabilities, like everyone else, should be able to participate in the different parts of life. The starting point for the Moderates is that everyone's work capacity should be taken care of, whether it is perhaps only a few hours a day. The vast majority of people want to work and need to work, both to have a community and to ensure their livelihood. Social insurance shall provide financial security in the event of illness and disability. At the same time, it should be designed to support and help people with work capacity to get back to work. Being able to work on the basis of their ability is essential from several points of view. On the one hand, self-esteem increases, and on the other, it increases opportunities for self-sufficiency. For some people with different disabilities, mobility is important. The freedom to take one's own car is seen for many as a matter of course. However, when the car has to be adapted to high costs, that possibility is severely limited for many. That is why car support is needed, and this car support has been in place since 1988. The car support has been the subject of several investigations over the years and needs to be constantly adapted, so that the support has the best effect for those who need the car while the state money is used in the best way. The car support consists of different parts, including a basic allowance that is related to the individual's needs. This basic contribution is halved as proposed. Instead, the income level of the acquisition allowance is increased. At the same time, an additional premium is introduced, which is a new premium. This depends on your income. When applying for a grant, you should be prepared to perform a function check, so that you choose the right car based on your needs. The Social Insurance Agency may request that the person who buys a car agrees to this. In order to reduce costs, if the Social Insurance Agency so requests, tenders shall be requested from at least two tenderers. What is important is that the person who buys a car should choose a car that is rebuilt from the beginning, because it is considerably more expensive to rebuild a finished car. There are some changes that need to be evaluated over time, and the government has said that it will. I will follow this closely. Madam President, I would like This must be followed up so that the supplementary premium does not take over what is or should be included in the supply aid. The car support is state aid, and the supply support is a municipal responsibility. This must be followed up in order to take account of this aspect. It is also necessary to study how car support makes it easier for the individual to get to work and how the individual can be involved in society. Another important issue that needs to be followed closely is how this reformed car support affects the Social Insurance Agency and how long waiting times arise due to the requirements for more tenders and functional controls. No one here has talked about how this affects the Social Insurance Agency. Does that mean that the individual has to wait a long time? We have had problems in the past over the years with long waiting times for people to get car support. No one is valiant that there is a good car support if you never get it. Madam President, I would like The Moderates assume that there will be a follow-up and review of the effects of the bill. The proposal provides for this to happen, and we will follow it very closely.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-338	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Social Affairs' report 3 on the reform of car support is, as I am sure everyone has understood from the speeches that have been made, essentially a very long-awaited and much appreciated proposal from the government. Most of it has been said, and I will therefore sort a little into what I was going to say. Although this car subsidy was formally introduced as a regulated car subsidy only in 1988, I have personally known as early in the 1970s – almost 20 years before the regulated car subsidy – that I received financial support from society precisely for rebuilding and adapting cars so that they could do their jobs. There is therefore a much longer experience of this than in 1988. So I really know what an important tool this is and how extremely important it is for many people with disabilities that they cannot use a regular car or public transport to meet their daily transport needs. Especially for those who, thanks to this, can live a basically normal life and make a living on a regular job, it means an enormous amount of freedom. That is why this is a very important contribution. As someone said here, the car support has been adjusted from time to time. And, as I understand it, the latest provisions are contained in a regulation from around 2010. So there has been a need to review this. As representatives of the Alliance have said, this started during their reign. But even though they had eight years, it wasn't finished. It is only now that the proposal comes, even if it is based on an investigation that they set up. This is partly because there have been some criticisms – I look back on 2012, 2013 and 2014 – both against the design and the practical handling. It was even the case that the Social Insurance Agency stopped payments for a period in 2013 because it was discovered that there were a lot of questionable costs that were partly probably due to the fact that the cars today have become completely different. They have sometimes paid for adaptations that have not been adaptations but are actually original installations in cars. And, as someone has said, original installations are much more reliable and much cheaper than retrofitting. But not everything can be solved that way. It has been mentioned here that the basic premium is reduced by 30 000 SEK. At the same time, however, the new supplementary premium may be SEK 40,000. It is specifically designed to allow it to be given if one makes the assessment that the basic car purchased is the most suitable variant of car. I cannot therefore see that, in practice, construction imposes any restriction on choosing a car, other than choosing the original technology instead of choosing a car that entails an increased need for special adaptation. There was also an investigation which revealed that it is doubtful whether there is competition in this market, as there are so few players who make these more advanced retrofits. There are, therefore, doubts that need to be followed up to see whether costs can be reduced. Since the representatives of the Alliance side are on the proposal itself but criticise the economy, I think it should be remembered that it is not all the years that all the money is spent. Sometimes more money has been spent; I remember that in 2005 we added quite a large amount of money to regulate this. It may not be possible to budget exactly, but if we are now making a change which, among other things, aims to get more benefit from the same money, it would be irresponsible not to look at whether it is perhaps possible to actually budget a smaller amount. Had we not reduced the amount, I think we would have received criticism from the other side, that is, to be wasteful with the economy and not, as it were, to exchange the lower cost that this should reasonably give in terms of the quality of the cars that users need. It has been told about the different parts of the car support. I'm gonna say something about this whole evaluation thing. I'm gonna skip all the other stuff. I think it is a little strange that you are addressing this, because it is something that is actually understated very carefully in the Government's proposal. One sees it as a key issue because this is a new incentive model that will bring lower costs and more benefit to the money. When you do, it is obvious that you want to know if it works. Therefore, although I agree with your wish there, I do not see any need to change anything in the proposal before us. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-349	Madam President, I would like Since car subsidies have not been reformed for many years, we welcome the government's initiative to update the reform on the basis of today's conditions. We believe that car support is an important part of society's support for people with disabilities. In many parts of the country the car is actually a prerequisite for being able to work, study, participate in leisure activities and meet friends and acquaintances. We are a party that wants to protect the rights of the disabled and provide them with the necessary support to enable them to participate fully in society. We also want to safeguard the opportunity for more people to work. The disabled are a group that is lagging behind in particular in terms of employment, and against this background we think it would be unwise to reduce car support because the possibility of driving a car can be a prerequisite for having a job at all. We are therefore very concerned about the purpose of halving the basic car subsidy, and we are opposed to this. Nor do we think it is sufficiently clear what the effects of halving the contribution could have on users, as the disability associations have pointed out. The National Association for Disabled Children and Young people, RBU, also finds it difficult to understand the consequences of the proposal. It is argued that a halving of the basic premium is clearly in danger of having a negative impact on many car beneficiaries. We believe that you have to listen to such heavy consultation bodies, because they really work close to the car-supporters. A reduction in basic subsidies thus creates economic insecurity for users, and we do not believe that this is acceptable. The current system of car support does not seem to have been designed to provide sufficient incentives for the beneficiary to choose a car in a way that contributes to the efficient use of state funds. We are therefore in favour of the new form of supplementary grant, if it can bring about the changes in incentives described by the government in the bill. However, we cannot support the fact that in the same proposal we should take the opportunity to make deteriorations and reductions. We see this as another attack on people with disabilities on the part of the government, like the ongoing reductions in, for example, personal assistance. The report also contains a proposal to require users to submit cost proposals from at least two different vehicle adaptation companies. That is another proposal we cannot support. Of course, healthy competition in different markets is fundamentally positive, but we share the doubts expressed by some consultation bodies. They question whether even a sufficient number of car adaptors are in place to achieve the objective of healthier competition. A consultation body questions why the responsibility for improving competition should lie with the disabled, and in fact I can only agree with that. Another point concerns the possibility of getting car support even after the age of 65. We believe that it should, of course, be possible to have it as long as you are in employment, even if you are over 65. If society and the government are serious about encouraging people to continue working, people must also have the opportunity to get to work. Madam President, I would like All our claims are about that we want to improve for people with disabilities. We believe that this is just another part of the ambition to cut back on aid. Car support can certainly be designed smarter than today's support, and for that very reason we have nothing against the proposed changes – other than those I have outlined. However, we want to mark and put our foot down. It is enough with the dismantling we now have in terms of the forms of support for people with disabilities. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 2.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-358	Madam President, I would like Mrs Carina Herrstedt, who represents the Swedish Democrats, has said in her speech a number of things on which I would like to ask a few questions. The first question I would like to answer, Mrs Carina Herrstedt, concerns the fact that you claim that we are carrying out major deteriorations in the LSS – particularly in the assistance part. I think it is important to hear how you view it, because in your budget motion you have proposed, as the only party in this House, cuts in assistance. How does it rhyme with your rhetoric? That's my first question. The second issue concerns the issue we are debating, namely the reform of car subsidies. In your budget motion, I can see that you do not have any additional support in money and resources for the reform. How do you intend to improve the design of car support, Carina Herrstedt?
i-edb5540c82cd2689-361	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. As far as the Swedish Democrats' budget and reductions in the LSS are concerned, this is how it is: From our overall budget, it obviously looks like we have made cuts in this area, but it is general cuts that have been done because the Swedish Democrats do not unexpectedly want to reduce immigration. That is what has an impact on the various areas, and that is not something we ourselves have calculated. That is why, and I agree that it looks really strange in our budget. I've reflected on it myself. It is, however, as I said, an effect of other policies. When it comes to car support, we want to review the possibility of getting support even after you have reached the age of 65. That is what more people think, and as I understand it here, it will be followed closely. I hope there will be a change on that particular point. I'll have to get back to you in the next line.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-365	Madam President, I would like Then we have the funny mathematical phenomenon of making a state budget based on hypotheses. In your budget motion, Mrs Carina Herrstedt, it is clear that you are making cuts in assistance. Don't talk about integration and immigration having great socio-economic costs! There are calculations showing that it is the opposite. Instead, I think we should stick to your budget exercise, account-by-account account. In fact, there is a deterioration in the LSS, and I repeat my question: how can you say that we want to bring about a deterioration in this reform when you have budget cuts yourself? As far as car support is concerned, you have no proposal in the budget other than that of the government. If you would now like to extend the aid to 67 years, Mrs Carina Herrstedt, it would nevertheless be interesting to hear how you are going to finance it.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-368	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear that immigration has no socio-economic consequences in any way. It is very interesting, because that is exactly how the parliamentary investigation service has calculated when we have said how we want to reduce immigration and asked what consequences it has in different areas. This is a reduction that we have got from there. We also invest more in this way. As I said, it is interesting to hear that immigration would have no socio-economic consequences. If we move away from the subject and talk about LSS and personal assistance, the cost of this has increased for some reason. It is quite clear to me that if we do not have the same population growth, these costs will not continue to rise to the same extent. For me, this is no wonder. That's exactly what RUT has come up with-- it's not a sum that I've calculated myself. This is an area that we want to continue to invest in, but unfortunately that is what it looks like when you make a budget in the way we have done.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-371	Madam President, I would like One might think that there is already enough regulation to prevent me, Madam President or anyone else from painting and decorating a car so that it is strongly reminiscent of a police car and then driving around in it. But after a sentence that came four and a half years ago, it became clear that you can certainly do that. It is therefore a good thing that the government is now putting forward a bill that will put an end to this. It is easy to see that this has serious consequences. For example, people may wonder why the police won't stop if you drive past a situation where the police would have been needed. Someone may stop the fake police car in the belief that those in the car could do a police job. There are many reasons why today's order – after the judgment – is unreasonable, but the whole thing can be summed up by the fact that it is obvious that all citizens should be able to feel confident that what looks like a police car is also a police car and that it is carried by police personnel. When I say "police," I mean "police" and "security." The government has therefore put forward a proposal for a new law on the protection of certain police signs of motor vehicles. It is simple to say that the heroic weapons of the police and the Security Service – which we might call symbols – or other symbols similar to these weapons in everyday life should not be used on motor vehicles. Nor should the word "police", "bubbles of police" or words similar to "police" be used. However, there may be situations where cars that appear to be police cars need to be used, even though they are not police activities. Then I think, for example, of film recordings, museums or private collectors. The law also allows permission to do so. If, however, someone has signposted their car in violation of the new law, the proposal is that the police should be allowed to instruct the owner of the motor vehicle to remove the prohibited words or symbols. It may also be supplemented or combined with a penalty payment if necessary. I am very pleased that we have a consensus in Parliament on the measures to be implemented and that we now have this proposal. However, the opposition wants to go a little further than this proposal. I have great respect for that, even if we do not agree on it. As I see it, there are no ideological differences, but only that we have drawn different conclusions and made different interpretations. I would like to comment on these differences on the basis of the proposed announcements made by the majority of committees. On the basis of them, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have also left reservations that we all naturally support, but for time to come I only call for reservation 1. Why do we not think, like the opposition, that the driving of fake police cars should be criminalised? We do not see criminalisation as the most appropriate way of providing greater protection for the police characteristics of motor vehicles. The criminalisation of vehicle driving does not seem to us to be proportionate to the crime that has been committed. The opposition wants the Police Authority to be given the opportunity to prevent further travel with a fake police car. Otherwise, the possibility of preventing further travel aims to prevent vehicles that are not roadworthy from continuing driving. This is not the case in the situations that this legislation is supposed to deal with. On this basis, and also because of the few vehicles that would be involved in such intervention, we do not see this need. The opposition also wants the law to cover vehicles and means of transport other than motor vehicles. The bill makes it clear that the problems we have now talked about are only about cars and motorcycles. There is no real need for any legislation other than that advocated in the proposal. The Government states in its proposal that there is no need to introduce an equivalent level of protection for signs used on other socially important emergency vehicles, as the majority of the committee wishes. This desire is based on the fact that both the Customs and the Coast Guard can use coercive measures, as the opposition points out. However, neither of these two authorities has expressed wishes or said that they have such a need, and that is why we do not support it. In conclusion, we fully agree with the main features of this proposal. The opposition wants to go a little further, which we simply do not see the need to do.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-384	Madam President, I would like As far as this bill on fake police cars is concerned, we have just been told why the need exists. We agree, as the previous speaker said, with the government and the Red-Greens that it is good that the bill came. However, the government and government parties leave strange gaps in this bill, which the majority of committees now want to rectify by announcements. These are four announcements: criminalising the driving of fake police cars; allowing the Police Authority to prevent the continued use of false police cars; extending legislation to vehicles and means of transport other than just motor vehicles; and including the characteristics of other authorities empowered to use coercive measures. I find it odd that the government and the red-greens do not want to address these problems. Reading or listening to their motivation makes no sense. With regard to the part on including other vehicles and means of transport – which the opposition wants to change, and for which we have a majority – the government states in the bill that the survey carried out does not support the imitation of emergency vehicles other than those of the police. The need to introduce an equivalent level of protection for signs used on other socially important emergency vehicles has thus not emerged. ..................................................... The government returns on almost all points of the bill to the argument that there are only a few occasions or vehicles. That's a really bad argument-- it's actually a non-argument. There are several laws in this country that are very rarely used, such as the Law on Treason. If we were to play with the idea that the number of murders in Sweden would be drastically reduced – so that there were only a few every year – then, with the same logic as the Social Democrats and the Red-Greens, we could remove the legislation for murder. This is completely unreasonable. If you think something is wrong, such as driving a vehicle that imitates a police car, it is wrong whether it happens once or 1000 times. If it only happens a few times, it's great, but why shouldn't it be punishable once it happens? And why should it not include other means of transport? It does not want the law to cover vehicles and means of transport other than cars. We can then assume that people are starting to make vehicles look like police boats or helicopters, even if it is perhaps a costly thing to do. For example, at the helicopter robbery, which we talked about, the helicopter was painted in the colors of the police and with the symbols of the police. Should we then say in retrospect that we might have had legislation that should have addressed this too? Why not be proactive instead of reactive? That is the question you have to ask yourself, and it applies throughout the bill. When it comes to preventing further travel, the government writes: The rules on the right of the police to prevent further travel are aimed at preventing vehicles that are not roadworthy from being driven on. Such reasons do not exist in the situations that are now proposed for legislation to be aimed at dealing with. But wait a minute! We are here to change legislation. We cannot rely on existing legislation and then say that existing legislation does not aim to do what we want to do. We are here to change it to make it as optimal as possible. So the argument in substance needs to be: What is the disadvantage of the police preventing further transport by vehicles that we all agree that people should not be allowed to use? The basic idea is that you should not paint a car so that it looks like a police car, right? When we agree on that basic idea, there is no rhyme and reason in allowing people to move on with the vehicle. There is absolutely no logic in that. Then there remains only one argument, once again that it is a question of a few, and as we have already stated, it is certainly not a good argument. As far as criminalisation is concerned, the argument is once again repeated, if this occurs rarely. The Government also states that an injunction can be imposed on the owner of the vehicle regardless of whether it is a natural or legal person. The government's position is therefore positive. But financial demands or responsibilities can be directed at the owner, and anyone who drives the vehicle can be criminalized, just as the announcement is written. As legislators, there is quite a lot of scope to design the legislation so that you can both access the driver of the car and impose on the owner of the car, if there are two different people, to remedy it. There is absolutely nothing to prevent us from having such legislation. Yet the government and the red-greens present this as an argument. It's pretty amazing, I think. The red-greens also do not want the law to cover anything other than police cars. However, according to the announcement, the law applies to all authorities that have the right to use coercive measures, which I was at the beginning, and that is quite obvious. Just because the problem has just touched the police, does that mean that it cannot appear at the Coast Guard or the Customs Department? Why, again, be behind if anything should happen? We assume that people would paint their cars so that they look like the Tullverkets or boats that look like Coast Guards. So do the red-greens think it's cool, that it's allowed? If this were to become more common and take place more than a few times, as the government and the red-greens are constantly staying on, would the red-greens return with a bill to close that gap? I'm pretty sure that would happen. Then the big question is: Why not do it now, before it is too late? Why not be proactive? The only argument would be whether there is any disadvantage in being proactive, and I have not seen such a thing in either the bill or the reservation of the red-greens, nor have I heard in the debate here today. The Swedish Democrats have a reservation in the report. We want other government weapons to be investigated, even if they do not have the right to use coercive measures. The problem with this is the smaller if you can use coercive measures. But I think there is a point in investigating whether they should also be given some form of protection, so that it will not be free to deceive citizens even in those situations, even if there is less interference. Then it does not necessarily have to be the same scale of penalties or the same criminalisation as for those who are subject to coercive measures. But there is no reason in this context to not even look at whether we can protect other government weapons. That is why I am in favour of the reservation based on our motion and, otherwise, on the committee's proposals for announcements which we have with the other opposition.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-400	Madam President, I would like It is important for all citizens to have confidence in the police. Then it is also important that everyone in every situation can trust that what looks like a police car is a police car. When it was discovered that there was a gap in the law, the government took an initiative to ban the use of the police's and the security police's characteristics on motor vehicles. I welcome that and I call for approval of the proposal. Today we are also discussing the opposition's proposals for legislative changes. Perhaps the biggest difference in principle is that the opposition also wants to criminalise the very driving of these cars. The government believes, and I share that view, that it is not a necessary measure and that what is now being proposed, with a penalty order and a ban, is enough to tackle it in itself serious but still limited problems that we have seen. In Å the complaint investigation, to which the government refers, sets out a number of criteria to be met for a criminalisation of an act. These criteria were also supported by the Riksdag. It is a case of behaviour that can cause material damage or danger and that alternative sanctions are not available, would not be rational or would be disproportionate in terms of costs. There are additional criteria, but I am thinking above all of them. Alternative sanctions are exactly what the government has landed in. It has been carefully weighed for and against and concluded that sanctions with bans and periodic penalty payments are sufficient. According to the criteria endorsed by the Riksdag, there is no reason to take a criminalisation decision today. For this reason, I would like to call for approval of the joint reservation of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party 1. I am also in favour of the other reservations, but for time to come, I am abstaining from calling for their approval. Nevertheless, I intend to touch on them in the debate. Preventing further travel is one of the proposals put forward by the opposition. However, as we have heard in the debate, it is a measure that is designed to prevent vehicles that are roadless and therefore dangerous to bring forward; it simply prevents them from being driven. I think it is wise to reserve measures for the purpose for which they are created. It has also been discussed whether there is a need to prohibit the use of other authorities' marks and of other vehicles. Here I feel that we need to draw a parallel to the prosecution's reasoning on criminalisation. Nevertheless, it is wise for us to put time and effort into legislative action to face the problems that we actually see, and we have not seen that there has been any problem whatsoever as regards the characteristics of the Customs and the Prison Service – that is also what they themselves say. That is why I think it is wise, as the government is concerned, that we take this step with regard to the police, because there we have seen that there is a problem. But, of course, I cannot say that it is a principled position that will apply forever if the entire population of Sweden starts driving around in cars that can be confused with the Customs Agency's. Let us let this law work and then come back if it turns out that there is a need to go further in various respects with regard to this regulation. But it is clear that we should ensure that the police signs on the cars should only be used by the police or for the limited other purposes that may be involved, such as film recording or museum activities. This is important. Citizens should have confidence that what looks like a police car is too. Not least, we must ensure that organised criminals, for example, cannot mislead the public in this way. With that, I would like to thank you for today's debate.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-410	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats did not take a line on me, so I have to take the opportunity to ask for a line on the other government party. If people start operating police boats and helicopters or start using vehicles from Customs or Coast Guard, does the Green Party think that something should be done about it? Hirvonen was into this a little bit. I thought she just said that maybe you should review the law again to include them as well. It is still a relatively sober attitude, one might think. But what I do not understand is what is the disadvantage of introducing this into the law now, so that it is dormant and in place if need arises. If we now agree – which seems to be the case – that we do not want people to start using Coast Guard or, for that matter, other vehicles, what is the point of not introducing this into the law now to have it dormant? As soon as that happens, we will agree 100%, if I understand it correctly. Why wait? Why be reactive and not proactive? I wonder.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-413	Madam President, I would like Kent Ekeroth wonders why we should not legislate in advance for any possible scenarios that we might see before us. It is wise to remind ourselves that it would be necessary to have sound legislative work, investigative resources and more if we were to introduce additional regulations for other authorities, for example. We know that resources are limited and must be used as wisely as possible. I think the wise thing is that we use resources to meet the challenges and problems that we actually see in society. We have many issues where action is needed because there are real problems. At the moment, for example, the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Justice are at a press conference discussing a new gender equality policy, as we are not on the way to achieving the objectives of ending, among other things, men's violence against women. It is an incredibly important social problem, and we should target the limited resources available to face the real and serious problems that exist. I do not think that, at this point, we should spend a lot of time, effort and money on criminalising the possibility of someone possibly in the future in front of a police boat in some context. Instead, let us focus on the real problems we see, such as this one with imitation police cars, and simply approve of this bill, which has very broad support in Parliament.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-415	Madam President, I would like The only argument I heard not to include this in the legislation was that it costs money to investigate it. To be honest: there are different forms of legislation that are more or less complicated e, but this is precisely not rocket research. To add to the legislation that this should apply not only to police vehicles but also to vehicles from the Customs Administration – or, as it is written, to authorities with access to coercive measures – is certainly not rocket research. It will not drain the Government Office on the vast resources it has. This would be quite simple and effective to implement. The Green Party notes that the government's position is that it is more reactive than proactive. That's exactly what Hirvonen said now. We should not introduce legislation for something that does not yet exist, but when there is perhaps we should do it, because then we agree, says Hirvonen. There's no rhyme and reason in this. It does not cost anything to have that text in the legislation, and it is certainly not rocket research to introduce it. The second aspect is that the legislation deals with roadworthy vehicles and that we should therefore dwell on it. However, we still agree that we do not want to see fake police cars in streets and squares. But when a cop sees a fake police car driving, he shouldn't stop it from driving. It's directly counterproductive. Nor would it cost so much to have it in the legislation. To be honest, this must be one of the most fundamental and perhaps most important aspects: if we see a police car, we should also know that it is a police car, just as the Social Democrats were up and saying. Now the problem is not so great, but one should have legislation that ensures that everything is already in place, instead of waiting and then doing too little and too late, as has been done in this country for too many years. There is no rhyme and reason in this, and the argument that it costs too much resources for the Government Office is directly ridiculous.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-418	Madam President, I would like Kent Ekeroth says the problem isn't that big. The fact is that the problem does not exist with regard to these other aspects. This has not happened, as I have been told. No one has claimed that this should have happened. We have real problems and real challenges in society regarding, for example, the regulation of violence in the name of honour, men's violence against women and prevention. There are an incredible number of things we're going to deal with. I do not think that we should look so casually at criminalisation that we are being said to criminalise because perhaps at some point it could become a problem. Criminalisation is, in fact, one of the ultimate tools that the legislator has. It should be used with great caution. I think that we really should remind ourselves of the criteria that Parliament has once supported. I think that alternative sanctions should be used in the first instance when available, and that is exactly what the government is presenting today. Having said that, there is, of course, always openness to possible re-evaluations if reality changes and new problems arise. But there are huge differences– I would like to remind you that in his speech Kent Ekeroth compared the murder regulation with the performance of a boat with the signature of the Coast Guard. It's of a completely different magnitude. Criminalisation shall be reserved for what is significantly harmful or dangerous and applied where there are no alternative means of sanctioning.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-421	Madam President, I would like The public should never ever have to doubt that the one who claims to be a police officer is that, that the one who looks like a police officer is that or that that car is marked by a real police vehicle. I have mentioned earlier in this House that one of my close relatives who has come to Sweden once said: When I see a police or police car in Sweden, I feel safe. I didn't do that at home. This is so important to our legal society that it needs to be addressed. The government has recognised this, and it is positive. What, then, has been the case in concrete terms? Thankfully, today we do not have a variety of cases where the problem has arisen. Nevertheless, there is a tendency and a number of cases which show the importance of regulating this area. Let me give you an example from Stockholm. A woman is stopped. She stops because she thinks it's a police car. The person looks like a cop and says she won't get a ticket if she goes on a date with him. His behavior is punishable by today's legislation, but the reason she stopped was because she thought she saw a police car. In the South Police Region, a false police car is travelling with the impact of a blue light, which is certainly punishable, and is trying to force itself free to go and stop other vehicles, including the Swedish Customs Administration's vehicles. It makes you a little surprised when you hear that the Swedish Customs does not feel that they have a problem with this. Then why has this become a problem? Everyone agrees that the representation of a general position is wrong. This is due to a conviction in Svea Court of Appeal where a known criminal was tried in a couple of rounds. The Court of Appeal concluded that patrolling, i.e. before turning on the blue lights, is not equivalent to exercising authority. So it would be okay to drive around the vehicle as long as I don't turn on the blue light or the siren. This in itself has meant, as the investigator says, that it is very difficult to know the extent of the problem because the police today do not report it. It is considered to be a legal procedure, so the scope may be greater. What we can see is it's growing. We're getting more and more vehicles. I'm sure some people think it's very funny. You can joke about an Epatractor. But it creates an opportunity, not least by the fact that an embellished vehicle that looks like a police car can be used to commit a crime. The government has realised this. It's so important that it makes a bill. Unfortunately, which I see a problem with, the government partly argues against itself, does not take the problem very seriously and chooses a very poor technical solution. The solution chosen is to give an injunction to remove the label from the cars and possibly combine the penalty payment. We would like to argue in itself that it is the very driving of the vehicle that creates the problem. It is not when the car is parked that the problem arises. It is when we de facto put it on our public roads that the public can be led to believe that it is a real police officer. That's where the problem is, and that's the problem we're going to get to. That is why we in the Alliance have chosen to present a motion. There is a majority for this in the Riksdag. That means four announcements. The government will have to come back and improve a fundamentally well thought-out bill that is poorly technically designed. The performance must be criminalized. The second is that it must be possible to prevent further travel. We would also like the person who has adorned his vehicle to be able to remove it on site at his own expense. It is not reasonable for the public and taxpayers to bear the cost. What, then, is the technical solution put forward by the government where it has fully followed the investigator's proposal? This means that you should hit the road traffic register and send an order to the person who is registered on the car. We are well aware of the problem of goalkeepers and fronts. It is not clear that the vehicles are on the correct owner. Then you should find the person and try to share the person. We know the problems with this. If the person does not comply with it, you should continue to have a periodic penalty payment procedure. Then the bailiff will solve the problem and try to find the car. You yourself know how difficult the bailiff has with car chases. It's not their main task. It is a very difficult technical solution to get to the problem. We see that the only reasonable route is to be able to stop the vehicle while travelling, to criminalise behaviour and to ensure that it is not allowed to continue. You heard me right. So the government's proposal can continue to travel with the fake police car. It will be ineffective, to say the least. Why is the government arguing for that solution? It says that so far it is such a small problem and so few vehicles. It puzzles me a little. At the time I had the opportunity to present a bill, I first make a consideration if I think the problem is so big that it is worth a bill in itself. If at the same time I belittle the problem and do not think that a stronger solution is needed, it will be quite contradictory. We propose two further announcements. Once the government makes a proposal, the legislation should be general. Now the legislation applies to motorcycles and cars, while it is still allowed to falsify all other types of vehicles – from aircraft and helicopters to boats and possibly other vehicles that might be rolling on wheels on the roads. We therefore want an announcement that it should apply to all means of transport. Basically, the bill is about the representation of general status. It should therefore apply to all authorities with coercive measures at their disposal. It cannot be excluded that the Coast Guard or the Finnish Customs would also be affected. In conclusion, what the government is saying is that it thinks the problem is important, but only a little important. We support the bill, but we see opportunities for improvement measures. We think that we should make real legislation that is effective and effective. I am a little surprised by the reservations that exist and would like to send a pass. It is here that we have the political power. Just to follow the officials' proposals and not to look at the criticism that exists from the consultation bodies, but just to press it further, is to give up political power. We'll take that from the Alliance.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-442	Madam President, I would like When you read about the police in the media you can easily get the impression that it is an authority in free fall. The news is rife about various shortcomings, excessive telephone queues, poor results in terms of crime resolution and how the new organisation has not been made to function as intended. At the same time, we have a strained situation for the police with an increased threat of terrorism, a massive increase in fraud offences, many of which are so-called computer frauds. There is also organised crime which constantly finds new ways of carrying out its destructive activities in new forms of cooperation, not infrequently across borders. The challenge is considerable. But it's not all night black. Despite all these challenges, small miracles are constantly being performed in the community by individual policemen who are passionate about creating security, helping the victim and having criminals prosecuted. But they deserve better conditions. The police and the judiciary are fundamental to the rule of law and perhaps the most important task of society. Land will be built by law, was already established in Uppsala laws in the 13th century. The strong and secure society is based on the fact that we have a set of good laws that are enforced effectively, legally and with respect for the privacy and rights of the individual citizen. When cars are burned and emergency services are threatened, when people do not dare to testify and the police do not come to the alarm, security is not only threatened here and now, but also confidence in the rule of law. That, Madam President, is very serious. It is our responsibility, with as good laws as possible, to ride a barrage against all possible threats to this trust. The report we are debating today proposes such a law. In a development in which several independent but collaborative factors undermine respect and confidence in the judiciary, it would be very unfortunate if we were to fight against a situation in which I, as an individual, have to start asking myself whether it is really a real police officer who now wants me to stay. The initiative is a good one, and it is to be welcomed that the government is presenting a proposal. Unfortunately, however, the original proposal involves a lot of gaps that risk making the law toothless. Fortunately, there is knowledge and commitment here in the Swedish parliament to cover up for at least part of the government's shortcomings. The committee now has a report in which the measure is more comprehensive. Madam President, I would like When confidence in the police and the rule of law is eroded, people seek security elsewhere. Simple answers are given to difficult societal problems by suspecting minorities and exploiting the fear of the unknown. Myths are cultivated if the stranger, small truths are made into great lies and the rule of law is no longer self-evident. All thinking people understand that all alternatives to the rule of law are hardly a safe society. But when it has gone so far, there is no means to reverse the trend. That is why it is so important that we continue to pursue the government about the development of the police. That's why it's so important that we actually opt out of other efforts to shift significant resource reinforcements to the police. Over four years we are investing in the Center Party in our budget movement over 3 billion, and by next year the police would receive a much-needed addition of 520 million. That's more than four times the government's stakes. That is also why it is so important that we pursue an active and responsible opposition policy and with the means that the Constitution puts in our hands as much as possible to cover up for the mistakes made by the government. That's what we're doing today. There are no good arguments against the reinforcements that we are proposing. When it comes to processing capacity and it costs resources to make laws – yes, that is the case. But if you have already started a job, it is just as well to make sure that this work is as good as possible. Otherwise, the processing capacity and resources have been put on something that is in danger of not working. This argument therefore does not hold true. We need to consider and reflect on what the socio-economic costs are for having a law that in practice does not work. It's serious. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-453	Madam President, I would like Just over two years ago, I saw a police car driving around central Örebro, but it turned out to be a fake police car. I got a phone call from people who were wondering, how can you allow this, you MPs? How can the state allow this to occur? Then I read an article in an evening newspaper with clear photographs of a modern car in the Stockholm area that was strajpad I think it also had blue light luminaire on the roof. It was shown that it was a known criminally charged person who owned the car and drove around with it to obtain benefits in some way. We have heard this mentioned here in the debate before. As we have also heard, the question was examined by the Svea Court of Appeal, which stated that it is not a breach of existing legislation to behave in this way. I put a question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson about what the government intended to do to close this gap in legislation, which was obviously wide open. He confirmed in his reply that painting and equipping his car is not forbidden to resemble a police car. The Minister of Justice also replied that he agreed that public confidence in the judiciary would be jeopardised if individuals were allowed to drive around in vehicles that look like police cars. This is not acceptable, he said in his reply to me. He promised to analyse how legislation could be changed. Madam President, I would like I was contacted by a veteran car owner who was anxious about a ban. He said, "I bought this car. I want to show it, and sometimes I go on a public road with it to different places. We concluded that it must be easy to arrange by taped over the police stickers when on the public road. When you want to show the car you can remove the tape. From what I understand from the proposal that is now in the proposal, this should not be a problem. We have heard that there are also other occasions, film recordings and so on, where you use cars that remind you of police cars but which are not really. Now, two years later, the government has analysed and thought through. There's a bill on the table to prevent fake police cars. In its report, the Committee on Justice is concerned that the law should be clear and constructed so that it is sharp enough to close the loopholes that exist today and also for the future. It is proposed that the driving of fake police cars should be criminalised and that the Police Authority should be given the opportunity to prevent further travel by the police car. Madam President, I would like I think that the last thing – to prevent further travel – is in line with what the Minister of Justice said to me in his reply about preventing individuals from being allowed to drive around in vehicles that look like police cars. I think that the somewhat broader proposal that exists from the committee and that can also last over time is an improvement on the proposal that exists. With these announcements, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-460	Madam President, I would like I apologise for extending the debate by a few seconds, but I just saw a news item that I intended to draw your attention to in connection with our reservation. It's about a scammer driving a fake ambulance. An ambulance is certainly not a government weapon, so the reservation might have had a wording about public institutions or the like. Nevertheless, I think that this shows the problem that may arise if, for example, people pretend to be ambulance drivers or, for that matter, belong to the fire department. They certainly do not have coercive measures, but this can still deceive citizens when it comes to institutions that are important and central to society. This is one of the reasons why we wrote the reservation: there may be a need to regulate other public institutions or authorities that citizens have, and should have, confidence in. The problem may not exist or be very small today, but we should not give any room for it to be big either. For example, it can be used for deceptive purposes, to deceive people, to enter people's homes or whatever it may be. This was just a small piece of news that perhaps shows the need to investigate this issue as well.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-465	Madam President, I would like More than 70 years ago, the World Bank and the IMF were formed at a hotel in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, USA. Together, the IMF and the World Bank have since played a central role both in the current world economic order and in individual countries around the world. The IMF and the World Bank have been strongly criticised in their history. There are many examples of how loans and subsidies were given during the Cold War to Western-friendly dictatorships and authoritarian states. During the 1980s and 1990s, most of the countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America were forced to implement various forms of structural adjustment programmes designed by the IMF and the World Bank. Central to all these programmes were privatisation, the dismantling of welfare, liberalisation and trade liberalisation, with disastrous social and economic consequences in many countries. The environmental and climate perspectives were often completely absent. In its history, the World Bank has contributed to large-scale investments in dams and coal power plants that have had disastrous consequences both for people and for the environment. Several countries, for example, have been forced through history to privatise their waterworks and their water supply, which of course has severely restricted the access of poor men and women to clean water. The result was 10 to 15 years ago that many countries in the south chose to pay back their loans early to the IMF in order to escape its demands. In the years after the turn of the millennium, several countries in Latin America and South-East Asia chose to create their own regional funds for crisis management in order to break their dependence on the IMF. I remember as a new Member of Parliament here in this House just over ten years ago how the IMF crisis was then discussed. When nobody wanted to borrow money from the IMF, revenue and interest income slowed down, and resources were quickly run out. The 2008 economic crisis in Europe created a new so-called market for loans and economic rescue packages. Iceland, Ireland, Portugal, Greece and Cyprus, but also Latvia, Ukraine, Hungary and a number of other states on our own continent have in recent years sought the IMF's assistance. The IMF has been very co-sponsored for a crisis policy which has meant that the bill for the irresponsible lending of banks and financial institutions has been sent for many years to ordinary employees and pensioners. The IMF has pushed for far-reaching privatisations and substantial cuts in welfare and security systems. In the wake of the crisis, we are seeing unemployment cemented at high levels across Europe, the gaps in society after society are increasing and people are losing their homes and being forced into deep poverty. Madam President, I would like At the same time, the IMF and the World Bank have been impressed in recent years by the criticism that has been made of the Bretton Woods institutions. In 2013, the IMF released a report on its crisis management in Greece, which was highly self-critical. It was acknowledged that the Fund made very serious misassessments of the situation in Greece, leading to serious damage to the Greek economy. The World Bank, under Jim Kim's leadership, has also reoriented the focus on key points. Gender equality has finally been clearly highlighted in the Bank's operations, and the focus on environmental and climate issues has increased clearly. All these reforms have been welcomed by the Left Party. But it is also clear to us that a broad development policy aimed at reducing poverty, increasing equality and gender equality, reducing climate change and creating macroeconomic stability also presupposes continued drive for reform of the IMF and the World Bank. We see that Sweden has a great responsibility in the IMF and the World Bank to push for fundamental institutional reforms, both in terms of decision-making and policy direction, and in terms of transparency and dialogue with lenders, borrowers and non-profit organisations. Firstly, Sweden should continue to push for a revision of the distribution of votes both in the highest decision-making bodies of the IMF and the World Bank, the Board of Governors, and in the Executive Board to increase the influence of developing countries. We have seen how some changes have been made in the distribution of votes both within the IMF and the World Bank in recent years, but it is still the USA and Western Europe that dominate the agencies and have the most votes in percentage terms and can block undesirable decisions. The reforms that have been implemented have primarily benefited emerging economies such as China, but far too many developing countries in the South still have a very limited influence on these two important global institutions. Secondly, we want Sweden to actively push for the election of Presidents of the IMF and the World Bank to be preceded by an open nomination process and for the election of Presidents to be based on competence and who is most appropriate rather than from which country they come. Since the creation of the IMF and the World Bank, the tradition has been clear. It is always a European who chairs the IMF and always a person from the United States who leads the World Bank, despite the fact that over the years there have been a number of other very competent and qualified candidates who have been sorted out because they come from the wrong country or the wrong continent. Thirdly, Sweden should work to ensure that loans and financial support from the IMF and the World Bank should not make it more difficult to meet the new global Agenda 2030 development goals. The sustainability perspective and environmental and climate perspectives must permeate all loans and programmes. We on the Left side are opposed to countries still having to implement privatisations, welfare cuts and the dismantling of their social safety nets. Whether it is a country in the north or the south, it must be the people who, through democratic elections, jointly decide and take a position on the economic choices that each country faces. That is why, Madam President, I would like to conclude by calling for reservation 1.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-479	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Government's letter regarding the activities of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group as well as the regional development and investment banks in 2014 and 2015. During the time period reported here, the international financial institutions have contributed to reducing poverty and promoting growth. They are relevant to enhancing the stability of financial markets and have played an important role in the recovery of the global economy after the crisis years. I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report. The world is not fair. Women and men are born, grow up and die with different conditions and opportunities. The most ground-breaking people differ: if you can eat enough today, if your children learn something at school and if your human rights will be respected. In 2015 the new global sustainability goals were adopted by the world's political leaders to actually show that we do not accept this and that we also want and can do something about it. Through their lending, expertise and research, development banks are important actors in achieving the 17 objectives. Development banks play an important role in achieving the objectives and mobilising resources, both through loans and gifts and by promoting private investment and strengthening countries' own capacity for domestic resource mobilization. Madam President, I would like The world is changing. Of course, in order to contribute to the development and reduction of poverty in a changing world, financial institutions must also change, and we see a willingness on the part of development banks to adapt to current challenges. In June 2015, 60 million people were on the run, and only in 2014 were nearly 14 million people forced to leave their homes. An important lesson when evaluating the MDGs was that the achievement of the objectives was absolutely worst in conflict-affected and fragile states. The number of extremely poor people living in failing states has doubled over the last 30 years and is being doubled again by 2030. The financial institutions play an important role in helping failing states to build peace and sustainable institutions to emerge from a vicious circle of recurring conflicts and violence. The institutions must have flexibility and knowledge to act quickly. A good example that I would like to highlight today is the World Bank's new MENA strategy, which provides a more peace-promoting role to promote cooperation and coordination between various development banks, the UN system and regional actors, and which, with a new approach, is trying to facilitate in particular those countries in the MENA region that have received many refugees from the crisis in Syria. The strategy goes beyond the basic reception and aims to strengthen education, work and functioning societies in the immediate vicinity of the crisis. This is a good thing. The link between humanitarian activities and long-term development work needs to be strengthened. Human rights are not included in the mandate of any of the financial institutions that we are discussing today except for the EBRD. This is particularly remarkable because the financial institutions are working on issues that at best contribute to democracy and the enjoyment of human rights, for example through their work in areas such as health systems, gender equality, education and the functioning of the labour market. Human rights and democracy are fundamental to contribute to development, promote growth and eradicate poverty. Without a clear mandate to include human rights, however, the measures can, at worst, contribute to the continuation of discrimination and exclusion. In order to promote human rights in the World Bank Group, the government has contributed funds to a special fund, the Nordic Trust Fund, with the aim of promoting human rights in the Bank's work. Despite the fact that references to human rights have met and are confronted with strong opposition from some member countries within the World Bank Group, the Foundation's work has become an important tool for influencing the Bank's entire operations. Sweden must continue to work to ensure that human rights are a natural part of the work of the World Bank and other development banks in which Sweden is involved. I would also like to say a few words about tax evasion. The UN Conference on Development Financing, which preceded the decision on the new SDGs, also identified the important role of development banks in financing a sustainable development agenda. An important part is to step up efforts to combat corruption and tax evasion. Transparency and clear guidelines are central to avoiding companies or individuals from levying taxes or engaging in money laundering or terrorist financing. It is particularly important to avoid capital and tax evasion from low and medium income countries where development banks operate. Madam President, I would like We believe that high standards of health and safety at work and labour law are development-driven. Great jobs lift people and thus countries out of poverty. Through high standards and a strong regulatory framework for social and environmental standards, the participation, quality and predictability of development banks' projects and hence the sustainability of projects can be improved. Finally, there is an announcement in the report. The committee sees the importance of development banks' work. They are important and can make a difference in poor people's everyday lives. However, we have for several years lacked a comprehensive presentation of the results from a Swedish perspective and have in several reports called for clearer reporting of results from the government to the Riksdag. We look forward to the government returning with a comprehensive report of results to the Riksdag starting in 2018.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-495	Madam President, I would like Today, as the world looks at Washington, we in this House are debating two Washington-based institutions: the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. These two institutions have even given rise to a political science concept: the Washington Consensus. This concept refers to the best regulatory framework for states that the two organisations have come up with in a kind of consensus. I think Mr Linde was a bit concerned about that in his speech. The textbook developed by the experts of the World Bank and the IMF to advise countries has suffered some criticism over the years. An important criticism that the Washington Consensus has received is that it has been very liberal in terms of trade. Today, I think that even Hans Linde, who is normally critical of free trade, might think it good to see more of the Washington Consensus at the World Bank and the IMF than what emerges in some buildings a little further away. One should know that the demands made by the World Bank and the IMF above all apply when someone has gone wrong. The IMF also carries out preventive work. They visit all countries, including Sweden, review the long-term sustainability of our economy and make recommendations. The tough demands only come when one has put oneself in such a position that one needs the help of the international community. As far as the World Bank is concerned, the construction of dams is often mentioned. When building dams, it is always difficult, and different interests are set against each other. We know that from when we once expanded water power in Sweden. But anyone who has seen an aerial picture of Africa taken at night does indeed see a dark Africa. We know that electricity is the path to both poverty reduction and equality. It gives poor people the opportunity to read the lesson in the light of an electric lamp. In the large projects, it is therefore important to take into account everyone, to have a holistic approach. It is clear that large dams bring disadvantages. But you also have to see the benefits. I would like to conclude with a comment on equality, which has been raised here. Today, the IMF is led by Christine Lagarde. She's a steel lady. You might think she's a real Excelark lady. She has given a speech, which is one of the most exciting gender equality speeches I have heard. She argued that gender equality is not only a human right but also an economically important factor. She said: For this reason, I have commissioned my economists to produce hard figures on how much economic loss it means for countries that do not pursue an equal policy. I believe that this steel lady, with the help of her economic technocrats, can make an important contribution to gender equality.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-501	Madam President, I would like Between 1999 and 2001, I had the great privilege of living in Côte d'Ivoire and being Sweden's representative in the board work of the African Development Bank. I saw then the importance of the role of the African Development Bank and the rest of the IFIs in the international system. What is required is that we have different instruments to finance investments that kick into different stages of development, in different parts of a society. Development cooperation in the form of aid is needed. And it takes everything from soft loans to hard loans. The government's starting point is that the institutions' activities should be aimed at helping Member States create the conditions for growth and financial stability and, last but not least, promoting global sustainable development. When I went into politics, in the Green Party, a number of years ago it was like swearing in the church to say that the banks played an important role. But I am pleased to say now that my party also thinks that the banks have an important task to fulfil and that we can do a lot in the banking sector in terms of climate change. We are working to use resources to benefit the poorest countries, not least countries affected by instability and conflict. The institutions shall continue to support, within the framework of their respective mandates, the recovery following the economic and financial crisis which broke out in 2008. For the government, it is a priority that the institutions are based on Agenda 2030, the global goals and the Paris Agreement. The government has thus established a strong increase in the ambition of IFI's energy investments. Just as Göran Pettersson said earlier, it is also a gender equality issue. It is important that developing countries do not have to go through investments in climate-dangerous energy, but that we can help them skip that step. It is important for the climate, for the world and for our children and grandchildren. Sweden is actively working to ensure that IFIs reduce fossil investment significantly and instead increase investments in renewable energy significantly, through ambitious and timed targets. Target formulations are an important starting point in the strategies that the government has decided on regarding Sweden's cooperation with the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Climate finance from developed countries channelled through IFIs amounted to nearly USD 30 billion in 2014. That's a lot of money. So we see that development banks, in this context, play an important role in the transformation of the world. These institutions have been investing for many years in the wrong kind of solutions. Let's turn this around. Madam President, I would like Paris is not the goal of a process, it is the start. Now we want to see the fine words from Paris come true. Emissions should be reduced vigorously, and new energy investments should not go to coal and oil, but to renewables. This is where Sweden will use its influence in the international financial institutions. We work with it through direct contact with the institutions, through a capital review, through additional negotiations in the ongoing Board work within the respective IFI and in cooperation with like-minded countries. Madam President, I would like IFIs also have an important role to play in the global refugee situation. We see that the World Bank and other IFIs have taken a greater role in supporting countries, including middle-income countries, which means a change in the regulatory framework for those countries that take a large part of the refugee population. We believe that it is a very important way of making soft loans to middle-income countries too. We also see the need to step up efforts to marry humanitarian efforts with long-term development cooperation. I also want to point out that Sweden and the government have for a long time been pushing – and trying to drive – that gender equality should be a special focus area. We see that much progress has been made. At the same time, this work in the banks needs to be deepened and become more systematic in the partner countries. Here the Nordic countries have been at the forefront even during my time in the African Development Bank. We were the driving force behind the work of the African Development Bank. Finally, the government is pushing for all multilateral organisations to be open and transparent. Both the World Bank and the IMF's transparency policies have improved considerably in recent years, but we need to be even better. Like the Left Party, we also want to highlight greater democratisation of the institutions and to increase the voting shares and influence of developing countries in the banks. Properly used, there is no doubt that IFIs play a very important role in sustainable development in the world. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-516	Mr President, I would like to This is a report dealing with the Government's letter on the presentation of the activities of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank Group and the Regional Development and Investment Banks in 2014 and 2015. It is a report that we in the committee hope will be able to develop together so that we can have a more clear and more thematic debate when we hope to have an opportunity to discuss such a statement from the government in the spring of 2018. It is important that the government now pick up on the announcement that we are proposing. This would make it easier to have a more focused debate. This is, of course, a large area in which this applies. Mr President, I would like to After all, the IMF is basically an institution aimed at stabilising the world economy, which aims to create the conditions for normal lending routes to be no longer open. When the crisis is a fact, there will be opportunities. The IMF has not been alone in crisis management. We, members of the European Union and other actors have participated and discussed us together up to the regulatory framework that we have wanted to see. It has been important to achieve stability, and the IMF has been a stabilising factor for the clear impact of the world financial crises that we have since Le h man Brothers and the situation in Greece. There is every reason to evaluate and discuss how this can be carried forward. I am convinced that the next crisis will not look the same, but it is of course always important to learn lessons from what has been and what is still going on. Different countries have also dealt with the issues in a slightly different way. I have mentioned the IMF's actions in Hungary and in Iceland, as we have highlighted in this House in the past. These are different ways for different countries to meet the demands that come and different ways of discussing how to move forward in order to get out of the crisis that otherwise ultimately affects citizens. We should not forget that if you do not have this type of stability instrument, it will be the citizens and ultimately those who have the most difficult conditions that will be most affected. There's like no shortcut there. Improvements have been made to conditions, longer interest rates and flexibility in the system. One can see that there has been a development, although some – even in this debate – sound like the debate on the IMF 20 years ago. The World Bank has taken decisive steps in a direction that is extremely valuable in creating good rules of play and sustainable development. I have discussed this several times before in this House. With the new management of the World Bank, it is clear that it has a strong role to play in creating the conditions for sustainable development. The difficult challenge is that many countries have not really got there. Many countries want to exploit their coal, water or other resources. It may be right or wrong, but they feel it is wrong that we do not allow them to make the journey that we have cost us. That is part of the debate and discussion that we have to hold. A balance here is, of course, important. It is not just the voice force that is at stake, it is also about being able to understand that all countries have a right to choose their way. It is good to have good examples and conditions to – hopefully – avoid the mistakes that we have made and that we are now having to try to correct. I think that the World Bank clearly shows that lessons have been learned. We should remember that Sweden is one of the contributors to both the IMF and the World Bank. It is one of the major and important issues to ensure that the institutions have sufficient resources to function stabilizingly. Without these resources, the outstretched hand will not even exist, and it will harm the whole world. It is clear from the letter – and I think it is positive – that the regional development banks and institutions have promised a commitment of 400 billion dollars over the next three years to develop and capture the global sustainable goals. It is also a clear marker, an investment to make our global agreements a reality. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to changing voice power, Sweden has shown the way to others in our circle. However, as the letter states, it is of course a question of dealing with the relative importance of the world economy and also the willingness of the Member States to contribute. Mr President, I would like to With this, I look forward to spring 2018 and a new letter. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-edb5540c82cd2689-530	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the government's letter concerning the activities of the IMF, the World Bank Group and a wide range of regional development and investment banks. The letter sets out the issues that have characterised the institutions in 2014-2015 and the government's priorities for the work of the various institutions, but also looks forward by describing the expected direction of the institutions' activities in the coming years. It also describes two other players now present on the international scene, the Asian Investment Bank for Infrastructure, AIIB, and the nya Development Bank, New Development Bank, which has been set up by the so-called Briks countries. The development of these infrastructure-focused banks will be most interesting to follow in the future. But this message was not really in demand. Report 2015/ 16:U7 noted that coordination between development banks and other multilateral institutions has gradually increased, not least with a view to achieving the previous MDGs and now Agenda 2030. It would therefore be better for Parliament to have an overall analysis of the results of the work of multilateral development organisations as a whole. In order to enable a deeper analysis, the committee believes that there should be an opportunity to focus in each letter on certain themes or groups of organisations that are considered particularly important in order to achieve the objectives of Swedish development cooperation. Furthermore, the committee believes that the analysis should include an assessment of the activities in relation to the strategies and performance frameworks agreed but also the results of Swedish board and advocacy work. What transparency and opportunity for influence do we really have? The responsibility for Sweden's taxpayers to feel secure with the extensive aid channelled through multilateral organisations is great. Responsibility means that it is done transparently and fairly. I also believe that an overall analysis of the results of the work of multilateral development organisations is particularly relevant in view of the close interaction imposed by the refugee situation in the world. There is a recognition that support for people on the run is more than a place in refugee camps and food for the day – it's also about creating a meaningful life and giving people confidence in the future. This requires jobs. The economic development of those countries that take the most responsibility for people on the run is central. This cannot be created by any UN agency alone, as lending and investment are needed. It is positive that the international financial institutions have adapted their activities to help deal with the refugee situation. It is also positive that the government states in its letter that it will continue to support investment banks in managing the refugee crisis. In this context, however, it may be appropriate to recall the slowness shown by the government in order to enable aid to go to countries that are considered middle class countries, such as Lebanon and Jordan. Sweden's focus on the International Development Fund, Ida, is fully understandable in view of the goal of raising people from extreme poverty, but with the challenges facing the world, preferential loans and grants can no longer go only to the poorest countries. Here flexibility and innovation are needed. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore important that Sweden actively participates in the design of Ida's future. More and more low-income countries are getting wealthier enough, gaining middle-income status, and instead entering the International Development and Reconstruction Bank, the IBRD. This affects Ida's long-term mission and also the question of how lending should be designed for those countries that are approaching middle income status or those where the difference between poor and rich within the country is incredibly large. The donor countries' principle of helping only the poorest countries will be problematic in the future, and there is a risk that middle-income countries will return to poverty again. Our responsibility for our efforts through the World Bank and other financial actors contributing to the goal of global development is important. It is clear that more and more of Sida's assistance is also channelled via the World Bank. More and more often, local Sida offices around the world consider that a world banking programme is the most effective and best way to achieve a goal, and this is in accordance with the country strategies set by the government. Today we are talking about aid for over 200 funds. I am not saying that this is a worrying development; it may even be a very desirable development. But issues of transparency and opportunities for influence will be important to continue to debate and develop. In the case of new investors in the arena, there are concerns about less transparency. This needs to be closely followed up. Finally, I look forward to the forthcoming letter, which is more clearly linked to the developments in which we have, I am pleased to say, seen more cooperation between multilateral organisations. It also contains an analysis of Sweden's potential for transparency and influence in these. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
