i-TDqNDYY7y7vmUmokdNT1BK	Madam President, I would like Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning! Rickard Nordin has asked me what demands are made on those participating in the Fossil-free Sweden initiative, how additionality in commitments under the initiative is ensured and how much commitments under the initiative reduce emissions. In Paris, the countries of the world agreed to keep global warming well below two degrees and to work towards keeping it for one and a half degrees. In order to succeed, emissions must now be reduced quickly. The government wants Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. In order to succeed, it is now necessary to involve even more than before Swedish companies, municipalities and other actors, i.e. all those who implement climate action in practice. The government has therefore developed the Fossil-free Sweden initiative. The purpose of the initiative is to stimulate and make visible actors who contribute in their activities to solving climate challenges and to achieving the goal of a fossil-free society. The initiative will also provide a platform for inter-branch and departmental dialogue. The stakeholders in the initiative, now 157 including 97 companies and 34 municipalities, support the need for the world to become fossil-free and are pleased that Sweden takes the lead and that it creates better environment, more attractive cities and new opportunities for jobs. All stakeholders in the initiative undertake to demonstrate their own concrete efforts to reduce climate emissions and to do so within the framework of the UN Action Agenda. Today, as many as 35 actors in Fossil-free Sweden have entered concrete commitments into the UN's so-called Nazca platform, and more are about to do so. Commitments in that platform are reviewed in accordance with international standards developed by the Global Reporting Initiative. Many significant players have chosen to join the Fossil Free Sweden initiative. It is my conviction that their concrete climate action and our joint dialogue on how we put it about will make a positive contribution to Sweden's overall efforts to develop and reach the fossil-free society.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Rickard Nordin says that he would have liked to have been here to take the debate, but he didn't really get the schedule together. That's why I'm jumping in instead. And I do so with great joy. As the Minister said, the Paris Agreement was a historic event. It is a milestone in international climate action. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for giving us the opportunity to join in what was my first but hopefully not my last climate summit. That's very generous. The Paris Agreement puts great pressure on the world's countries not only to talk about climate but actually to deliver climate results. And Sweden's major contribution in Paris was the Fossil-free Sweden initiative. Just as Rickard writes in his interpellation, it is rather unclear how the initiative makes a concrete contribution to reducing climate emissions. For those who are not familiar with Nazca, I can mention a few criteria that are mentioned for companies to be able to make the commitment. The companies that join must set short-term and long-term concrete targets. They must be able to follow up, and they must be able to report on the achievement of the objectives. It is surrounded by strict regulations to show that you are doing climate work and making a difference. Since it was not clear in the Minister's reply what demands are made to join Fossil-free Sweden, I can tell you what they are. This could be an objective for how much the company or municipality says they intend to reduce their climate emissions by 2030. It could be that an action plan is requested for how the company, the municipality or the organisation intends to achieve a fossil-free society. But what Fossil-free Sweden has asked for for the company, municipality or organisation to be part of the initiative is the logo. The only concrete, new thing that organisations or companies have been required to do is to send in their logo. I want to make it clear that no shadow should fall on the companies or organisations that have joined. It is fantastic that there are many companies, organisations and municipalities around the country that are committed to the vision of a fossil-free Sweden. But it's not without thinking a little bit about the concrete difference it makes. As the Minister mentions, 35 out of 157, not even a quarter, of the participating companies have made a commitment to Nazca. Unfortunately, it does not mean anything concrete. They would have made those commitments anyway, even if they had not been in Fossil-free Sweden. In concrete terms, therefore, it makes little difference. However, according to what the companies have indicated, 98 of the participating companies have not made or are planning any commitments whatsoever by Nazca. The Minister mentions in his reply that Fossil-free Sweden can be seen as a forum for dialogue. It is great that there are forums for dialogue on climate challenges. It's necessary. But in my view there are already quite a few different forums for dialogue. There are Climate Municipalities, there is the 2030 Secretariat and there is the coordinator for industry's work on environmental objectives. It feels like there are already many dialogue groups where you can discuss and inspire each other in order to reach out with the climate work. I will try to sum up what we know about Fossil-free Sweden. It is thus an initiative that will form a dialogue platform in an environment where there are already relevant dialogue platforms and where the government has not directly presented a broader plan for how to continue working. It is an initiative from which the only question companies were asked was: Where can we find your logo? I would like the Minister to answer my questions. Does the Minister really believe that Fossil-free Sweden delivers concrete differences for the climate? How will it reduce emissions? And what is the Fossil free Sweden initiative doing that other initiatives do not already?
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-16	Madam President, I would like The overall answer is that it is clear that more dialogue and cooperation is needed in Sweden to speed up concrete climate work. I am aware that it is not we politicians who are standing in this Chamber talking about reductions in climate emissions. It is actors in the community who do the job. If we can get those actors to interact more, with us and with each other, it is an important step and an important contribution in the climate work. I am not sure that what climate work and policies have the least of right now is the follow-up to concrete climate emissions. We have a solid international follow-up. Sweden reports annually. We report incredibly carefully on the concrete state subsidies and the co-financing we make in the climate work, for example with the Climate Act. Every pound of climate emissions is reported there and so on. Many companies have chosen their models to report, perhaps often in networks with each other, including within the framework of the Global Reporting Initiative and also in their own standards. I am not sure that it is the work of politics to go in and report even more clearly, inside the climate work of companies or individual municipalities. I think it is reasonable for us to demand that we have climate work, that – in order to be beneficial in a dialogue on increased cooperation – we also have our own concrete work. I would very clearly reject the image of the Center Party, which is now defaming this initiative by saying: the only thing that was required was a logo. No, it was all wrong. I don't know where you got that assignment. It has been required to support the need for the world to become fossil-free, to see positively that Sweden takes precedence. It has been necessary to undertake to demonstrate its own concrete actions. On the other hand, it is quite right that we engage in a dialogue with each municipality and every company that has chosen to join the initiative because they see a benefit to it. But we have not said that they must have 30% reductions by 2030. It has not been an adequate requirement for cooperation. We have also inspired more Swedish companies, municipalities and organisati oner to register in the Nazca database. We've done that for the reason that we'll see you there. It is a way of showing off internationally, that you are good at climate work. I have seen this in the many meetings around international climate work that I participate in that Swedish companies, organisations and municipalities are very good, but they do not show up as much internationally as some French and American actors do, for example, which leads to a loss of some joint jobs. This is also an example of jointly strengthening the Swedish work internationally and thus getting more force in that work. I think it is very positive that 157 companies, organisations and municipalities choose to see Fossil-free Sweden as a sufficiently important platform for them to participate in the initiative. The other week we had a big meeting when it was expressed that this contributed something to the interdepartmental and cross-sectoral dialogue. Otherwise, municipalities and companies sit separately in the various networks and organisations that now exist. It is clear that this initiative has a role to play, and it is important that we, from politics, are involved in supporting increased cooperation on the climate issue.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Of course, we think it is positive that there are initiatives that show that we are striving for a fossil-free Sweden and that there are companies and municipalities involved in this issue. The Fossil-Free Sweden initiative is the government's major flagship, which is mentioned at the Paris Summit. But it does not make any concrete difference, it is something that should sound good and be displayed. But it does not impose any requirements on the companies involved. The Minister himself says that there are no demands on these companies and organisations. I repeat: the logo is in fact the only concrete thing that companies, municipalities and organisations have delivered in. Otherwise they ask that there be goals and such things, but there is no concrete content. It does not make any real difference either. The minister was talking about measurements. A few months ago, the government presented the control station for the climate and energy targets. It is in many ways a pleasant reading. In conclusion, it can be noted that the greenhouse gas emissions targets, renewable energy targets and energy efficiency targets will be achieved. Thus, the control post deals with the period since the previous control post in 2008, that is, during the years of the Alliance's policies and budgets. This control post gives a pretty clear indication that the policy pursued by the Center Party and the Alliance has produced results both in terms of climate emissions and in terms of a stable energy policy. During the period 2006 – 2014, emissions decreased by 19%, i.e. by 12.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. This is twice as much as emissions decreased in the previous period. So it has made a big difference. The control post also addresses the way forward to 2020, how the government will work forward to achieve the 2020 target. There I feel there is cause for some concern. In the energy and climate agreement presented by the Alliance in 2009, it is very clear that solid crown-for-krona calculations of what different efforts should make a difference to the climate, how much they should cost, how the emission reductions should be carried out in grams. Some calculations are made in the letter that has been submitted, but the calculations are described as very uncertain. It is clear that there is no concrete plan forward. The Government states in the letter that further emission reductions of approximately 4 million CO2 equivalents are needed by 2020 and that this work is to be done nationally. In connection with the launch of Fossil-Free Sweden at the Paris meeting, the Minister for the Environment said: "We want to show the rest of the world how quickly a country can become fossil-free, how quickly it can be implemented and how quickly it can be exported to other countries." It is then thought that the Fossil-free Sweden initiative should provide a very good platform for the Government's concrete plans forward for reducing emissions for Sweden. When the Minister for the Environment and I met in this House in connection with the budget debate on 14 December, I also asked a question about the Fossil-free Sweden initiative and what concrete difference it will make for the climate. The Minister then replied that she would be happy to return with more thoughts because the government had not decided how to proceed. I would like to ask again: how does the government intend to fill the Fossil-free Sweden initiative with concrete action in the future? What is being done in the future to make the initiative a real difference for the climate, and not just an initiative to show off?
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to talk about one of the important measures in the field of climate policy taken by the government. Kristina Yngwe is now taking up what we have recently reported to the Riksdag about the control station 2015. It is the climate and energy policy control station that sets the 2020 targets. It is quite right that the figures look good when it comes to achieving the objectives. One reflection made in the report is that some of the goals were set well low. Ambition levels weren't that high. It is also very much an EU discussion that I know was conducted by the Center Party and the Alliance Government. But here we have an opportunity in Sweden, and within the framework of the discussions that are now taking place in the EU on the 2030 package, to show how, through the transition, you can achieve your goals earlier, faster, cheaper and with simpler measures than you might have thought because you set them so low. I am pleased that so far we can continue with reinforced climate work in Sweden and that we also see more opportunities to gather energy and thus reduce emissions even faster. That is exactly what the discussion in Paris and the international talks showed. There is a need for countries such as Sweden to indicate that it is possible and that it will also be quite good in society when you can reduce the measures faster. It is important that the climate work thus gets a very clear focus on setting goals and delivering against them. We are also doing this in connection with the monitoring station and the discussions that will now take place within the government after the submission of an interim report by the M iljömålsföreningen regarding long-term climate targets. There is an undertone from the Center Party that you want Fossil-free Sweden to show a very clear and carefully measured additionality. Then I would like to ask a question back to the Center Party about how one imagines that climate work will be carried out effectively. When Sweden reports on Sweden's climate emissions, then Sweden is much bigger than the state and government, then Sweden is simply society. It is what the municipalities, companies, producers in Sweden do that is reflected in that measurement. Then it becomes a little strange in my ears to have opinions about climate initiatives to strengthen each other through cooperation. We know from experience that cooperation between different actors is important in order to achieve further climate reductions. But there are demands to calculate additionality in cooperation. Additionality to what? An additional emission reduction from Leksandsbröd or from Uppsala municipality is what reduces Swedish emissions. If one is to distinguish between the emissions of the state and the emissions of individual actors, then we are probably in a bureaucracy that the Center – at least in my world – did not represent. So I have a little question about the undertone of this interpellation that the Fossil-free Sweden initiative has no legitimacy because it does not increase bureaucracy in demand for concrete and equivalent requirements. What in the world of the Center Party would be a relevant and uniform demand for all actors to make? I think it is much better that Uppsala Municipality has its goals and that Leksandsbröd has its own. I welcome it and see that this is what strengthens the Swedish climate work. I am very proud of the participation of these 157 organisations and companies.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-41	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister very much for his reply. Of course, it is very positive that all different companies, municipalities and organisations, based on the conditions they have set their own goals and work on the basis of their own rules of play and the conditions that exist. But from the government you hit the big drum. Now we're going down to Paris at the climate summit! Now we're finally going to make a difference to the climate! We are now launching Fossil-free Sweden, the vision that we should be a fossil-free nation! We have 157 different companies and organisations that support and that will make a real difference to the climate! But even though you hit the big drum very much, there won't be any concrete difference. That's what we're talking about. When you talk about the initiative Fossil-free Sweden, you have drawn parallels with Nazca. Then the question is: What difference does it make that you are in Fossil-free Sweden and in Nazca? Obviously, it does not make such a big difference, because there is no further action to take. There are no demands on those who are involved, but it is only a way for the government to show a placard policy: We work with Fossil free Sweden! It may not make a big difference to the climate, but it sounds good, and it is something to go down to Paris with. This seems to me to be a great pity. As I said, no shadow should fall on those who are in the initiative, but it is a pity that we are in favour of a placard policy rather than a performance policy. In connection with the climate discussion, I would like to ask a brief question. One of the biggest climate challenges concerns the transport sector. At the moment, we see that it is very problematic for producers and suppliers of biofuels to be able to deliver. We see a sharp decline. This is largely due to the fact that there is an overcalculation of taxes. The Energy Authority has concluded that there is a higher levy on biofuels than should have been implemented. It feels like something that the government should want to work with within Fossil-free Sweden. What's going to happen on that side?
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-46	Madam President, I would like I thank you for a debate that has focused on one of our generation's most important issues, namely the climate challenge and how to move forward and reduce emissions at a faster and better rate than we are doing today. I would like to be very clear. I appreciate the concrete climate work from all participants in Fossil free Sweden. I see it makes a difference. Unlike the Center Party, I see that it is the concrete work that makes the whole difference when it comes to reducing emissions at a faster and better rate than hitherto. Through previous experience and with the good dialogue we have had within the initiative, I am convinced of the value of this approach. This initiative sends a clear signal to the government, which participates at a high level, including on concrete issues such as the need to change rules and taxes in order to make it easier to reduce emissions. Yes, Kristina Yngwe and the Center Party, the government is, of course, looking at whether it is possible to provide compensation within the framework of existing EU rules. No one in Sweden thinks it is a good idea to impose additional taxes on renewable fuels. The alliance government did not think so when it introduced this in 2012 and 2013, nor do the government and parliament today think so, and I am aware and happy about that. So we are working on this, and that is one of the issues that can come up in these talks. Consumer organisations, suppliers, major industries and government stakeholders must participate in the same dialogue. I believe in dialogue and cooperation. I also think that it makes a difference to show the concrete work that is taking place throughout Sweden and not just engage in writing and talking here in Parliament. Thank you for a good debate.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-52	Madam President, I would like Annika Qarlsson has asked me if I am prepared to urge the parties to take responsibility for the introduction of entry-level jobs, so that Sweden can quickly integrate the hundreds of thousands of people who are now excluded from the Swedish labour market. Just recently, on 24 February this year, I have answered a basically identical question from Annika Qarlsson, I would like to refer to the answer I gave at the time. Major challenges await Swedish society when many new arrivals will enter the labour force. The Swedish model is crucial as we now face these challenges. The parties are already doing a great deal to facilitate entry into the labour market. They offer, for example, apprenticeship and career introduction positions. The parties have also been a very important player in the development of fast track. I have a continuous dialogue with them about the continued work to offer new arrivals a place on the Swedish labour market. Instead of phasing out, I want to develop the Swedish model. Today, there are extensive opportunities to hire newcomers with collective bargaining conditions at heavily subsidised costs through, among other things, entry or start-up jobs. For those who want to hire a new arrival, for example with entry-level jobs for work in a restaurant, the cost can be as low as about SEK 4,400 per month. As Annika Qarlsson knows, changes are underway based on the agreement that the government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats entered into in October 2015 and which was presented on 23 October 2015. It agreed that the target group for which employers can receive support to stimulate job introductions should be broadened to include newly arrived immigrants under the same conditions as the current target group, young people under the age of 25. At the moment this issue is being prepared, and the government is working for enlargement to enter into force in the spring.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-58	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. In the answer, the Minister for Labour describes several different initiatives that are in place and that the government is trying to switch up to get better outcomes. I think it is wise to use what is already in place and try to make as much of it as possible. It concerns apprentices, new jobs, fast track, validation and more. Problem is, it's not enough. The figures we can see in the statistics speak clearly. The unemployment rate of foreign born children is 15.2 per cent, compared with 4.6 per cent among native Swedes. Looking at employment, the same pattern is visible. The employment gap between foreign and domestic born was 16.6 per cent last year. Although we know that unemployment is now falling, there is still a big difference. Here Sweden is the worst in the EU. Compared to new arrivals, the difference is even greater, as it takes a very long time to get to work here in Sweden. With the large flows of refugees that have now arrived, the problem will not be less, but the challenge will be even greater. These figures should make anyone realize that it takes more than what is already in place, that we need to do more and that the thresholds are too high. A newcomer who is learning Swedish, trying to understand the culture and lacks references and education above primary school level has very difficult to compete with a native Swedish who has both language and culture with him and who can show references, Swedish education and professional experience in his CV. The lowest starting salary that the employer can pay today is the same for these two. The consequence is that the employer hires those who have the best conditions. Of course, it looks the same to other vulnerable groups. I know this is a very sensitive issue. It is a pity that there will be some kind of placard discussion instead of the factual debate that needs to be conducted around the challenges ahead. I know that this is also sometimes distorted and described as trying to reduce wages, which is not the case. What we are talking about is reducing the entry price of those who are currently referred to rather low subsidies or to a black market. Moreover, there is a great risk that this market will grow and that people will remain in long-term dependency on benefits. The big question is what the overall approach should be. What is more, in addition to the efforts already in place today in terms of training, validation and investment? If we look at the groups that will come, we realise that more efforts will be needed, both because the number is greater and because the challenges of getting a place in the Swedish labour market are greater. We're not alone in this. Many have participated in the discussion, and a wide range of authorities, researchers and expert bodies have similar proposals. They have all pointed out that lower entry wages are necessary for Sweden to overcome the high unemployment rates in these groups. I understand that you work a lot with these questions and try to find different ways. The systems that already exist are being speeded up. As I said, I think that is positive and good. This discussion needs to be conducted, and one should consider: How can we meet those parts? Is the government prepared to invite the parties to consider the issues and discuss them in order to see what can be achieved for agreements that facilitate entry into the Swedish labour market from a dependency on benefits?
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-66	Madam President, I would like Now Annika Qarlsson from the Center Party is here and says that we should not engage in any placard politics and that we should have the right focus in the debate. I can agree if it is very much about us being able to ensure that the new arrivals who come here get the right conditions, get education, get into practice and so on. At the same time, the Center Party is challenging the entire Swedish model and all the parties involved in the labour market. We last heard it at the committee meeting yesterday Thursday. TCO was very sharp in its positions. Firstly, we politicians should stay away from the Employment Protection Act. Secondly, TCO said: Let's do the wage formation. This is something on which all trade unions agree. We have a model in Sweden that works, and we take responsibility. You can ask Annika Qarlsson and the Center a number of questions. When did the social partners not take responsibility for wage formation and Sweden? That's a question. Now the Center Party clearly says: unless the social partners take responsibility, we intend to propose legislation. A simple question will then be: Who will decide whether a future agreement is good enough or not? Is it the Center Party that's going to do it? Or is it some other constellation that exists within the state or any other organization that should decide whether the social partners themselves can't? Who, then, is to be covered by this new collective agreement? Should it also be placed under the lup so that the Center Party can review it so that it hits the right groups? Is it supposed to be selected? Should it be an agreement addressed to any particular group? Should it be for Syrians, Bulgarians or should it be for everyone? It is likely that such a collective agreement will have to affect everyone. This means that there will then be an agreement whereby everyone entering the labour market will receive lower wages than they currently have. In this way, wages will be cut. Does this mean that you should make a full-time or part-time assessment? Annika Qarlsson says that wages are too high. That is what the Centre Party is saying now, and legislation is being threatened. We know that an average salary for a shop employee today is about SEK 15 900. It's too loud, says Annika Qarlsson and the Center. Madam President, I would like This is the wrong way to go. There are so many who agree that we should not interfere in wage formation. I am absolutely convinced that the social partners will shoulder their responsibilities on all the issues that are important to society. They have done so far, and they will. Please Center Party: Don't let it become a system where the Riksdag threatens legislation, where the Riksdag will decide which agreements are good or not and where the Riksdag will talk about what salaries people should have in shops, municipalities or anywhere. It is a serious intervention in what we call the Swedish model with strong free parties with the support of the state that facilitates their agreement.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-73	Madam President, I would like Let me first make a few corrections. Sweden has the second highest employment rate in all OECD countries. We also have a higher employment rate for foreign born than the EU average. The group that is currently increasing its employment rate most strongly in the Swedish labour market are women born abroad. That does not mean that we do not have great challenges, and that does not mean that we do not have problems. But it is not that we are the worst in Europe, as Annika Qarlsson said. We have a special challenge now that many new arrivals are going to enter the labour market. There are several different things that need to be done. The government is on with some of them, and more will have to be done. Let me point out a particular mission. This applies to the way in which the establishment assignment is designed. As it is designed today by the old government, of which Annika Qarlsson's party was part, it is not clear, for example, that if you refuse an offered job, you lose your remuneration. I believe that it is absolutely self-evident that this should apply. We will propose such changes. You should not be able to turn down a job offered and receive compensation at the same time. There is a wide range of other adjustments that need to be made in the start-up assignment in order to get a clearer focus on the jobs. We have already done some by abolishing the start-up slots and investing more in individual efforts. Annika Qarlsson makes a small twist in her reasoning. She says lower wages don't mean lower wages. That's exactly what it does. That is what Raimo Pärssinen has so clearly explained. There is already a system in place to reduce wage costs for individuals who have a weak position in the labour market. I have explained this in my answer. Individuals who go on grants, as Annika Qarlsson says, are already in principle entitled to those grants that give a very low wage cost. For those individuals where there is a need to move away from benefits and unemployment into work, there are the systems that provide a low wage cost. I think they need to be made easier, that they need to be fewer and become more transparent. But the basic principle is correct and has strong research support. If, on the other hand, all entry wages are reduced, it is clear that this affects the wages of everyone in the labour market, at least in the sectors where the reductions take place. This means that many of those who today have to make a living on part-time or precarious jobs and do not earn a full-time salary will find it difficult to get by on their wages. There is no strong research support for lower entry wages leading to more entry into work. There is research support. It is relatively weak, and it is partly contradictory. But there is some research support. I think you should watch out before you throw the baby out with the bath water. That's my criticism of the Center Party. I am convinced that Annika Qarlsson has a genuine commitment to getting more new arrivals to work. But the Center Party has made itself known that with system changes want to destroy the Swedish model. It is difficult to get rid of the idea that it is the will to lower wages in general in the labour market and change the model so that we get politicians who decide wages instead of the parties who are also behind the Center Party's proposals.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-83	Madam President, I would like It would have been brilliant if all the efforts already in place had worked to the extent that we are facing. That is the concern regardless of the systems we have tried to develop. We have more than once previously rounded the Swedish model and made decisions here in the Swedish Parliament. This is something that the current government continues to work with and develop. We're talking about new jobs, entry jobs and other things. It is somewhere to meet up with an answer here from the Swedish parliament when the parties do not meet in agreements that allow those who are far from the labour market to enter. You make the step even bigger. It's getting a little weird. Somewhere the Minister for Labour is describing the proposals that are already in place and believes that they will solve the problems when they have not been sufficient before, and now we are facing even greater challenges. We can see that among the groups that come here there are those who have higher education and who, with the right effort, could reasonably have the right short way to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market. Many times they have the type of education and knowledge that the Swedish labour market screams for. There are also those who have practical experience and with shorter training courses can take place in the labour market. I met carpet publishers last week who noted that there are many good plate makers who come here, but they are not used to moisture layers and the type of construction that exists in Sweden. But they are good flatteners, so short parts are needed to complement the training they have. But then there are large groups who have a short education or lack education and who may not even have been on the labour market. I do not believe that the efforts and measures that we have in the system today will meet with it. I don't think it's gonna work. I am absolutely convinced that we will need to take more action and action and not just turn it a little lightly on those who already exist. To ensure that there are fewer and simpler actions and measures that come with more, I support 100%. There should also be demands if you are offered a job. Now it is not usually the problem, but it is clear that there should be a requirement that it disappears if you say no. But it's not a big livelihood if you don't – the start-up allowance based on 40 hours is SEK 6,468 per month. It is at this level that you are today if you do not have supplements for children and so on. What is so important then is to get the step into the labour market, to get the first line in the CV, to get the chance to actually learn in a profession and show that you work, to get a reference and get ahead. There are many who can tell that story, who have come here many years ago without education and experience and through the black market have had to take the step into the labour market. What I see is that either we meet this and find a system that is within the Swedish model and within the framework of what we think is right and right, or it will happen outside. I listen and hear that Ylva sees and appreciates that I am passionate about this and see that it is important. I do not like the tone when you try to make it some kind of truth that the Center Party does not stand up for the Swedish model. We have different views on what the framework for it should look like on certain issues, but I think that was a bit of a bit below the belt.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-95	Madam President, I would like Let me first state that what Annika Qarlsson says, that an intervention in which politics determines wages is within the framework of the Swedish model, is completely wrong. The Swedish model has its core in the fact that the social partners are responsible for wage formation. It is they who decide which wages are best for Sweden to cope with competitiveness and so on. What you say, Annika Qarlsson, is nothing that fits within the framework of it. I can only say that then you have not really understood what the Swedish model is. I agree with Annika Qarlsson about a lot of what she says about various measures needed to do this. Employers want to hire someone or get someone into their company that is productive and as quickly as possible can create added value. I believe that employers are interested not only in something cheap but in something that adds a lot to the business. The Center Party says that if you come here without education, you should be offered poor wages, but you should not receive education. Wouldn't it be better if you were given education instead of being locked up in some job with lousy wages? That's the big difference. And why should those with low wages receive even lower wages in the future? Just as the Nobel Prize winner in economics Joseph Stiglitz said when the committee visited him: Why put the burden on those who have poor wages and those who are poor? Why do you not take them in solidarity and subsidise them to employers? This is exactly what we do here in Sweden and want to continue to do. It's a better way to solve this.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-99	Madam President, I would like After all, it is the truth, Annika Qarlsson, that you in the Center Party make proposals and stand for a policy in which you say that the parliament and government should go in and decide on salaries if the parties do not do what you want the parties to do. It is the same thing as the politicians being allowed to pay salaries, and I mean that is an attack on the Swedish model and on the autonomy of the parties. Of course, it can be defined in different ways, but in my view it is. I think it is serious because, compared with other comparable countries, Sweden's labour market is doing well. It is not that we are without problems, but compared to other comparable countries in Europe, we have great flexibility, high employment rates and low long-term unemployment. I believe that if, in order to solve a problem, we are prepared to take a serious step from the whole principle underlying the way in which we are today setting wages and governing the labour market, then we are taking a great risk. I believe that there are other ways of achieving this. Annika Qarlsson comes back time and again to people who live on support and how to get into the labour market. Then I say that for people who are unemployed or newly arrived and live on subsistence support, there are already forms of support that make the wage cost very low. These forms of aid need to be changed and simplified, and they certainly need to be developed. We certainly need to think new in many parts of this. But those people won't get a job to cut the entry price by a couple of thousand crowns. Then you should lower your salary down to the level of support, and that if anything is a change of system – if there is a marginal difference between living on support and working full time in a country like Sweden. It's an amazing comparison. It goes without saying that, as I have said several times, we need to make changes in politics. We are facing new challenges, and the existing forms are not enough to solve those challenges. Changes in policy are needed, and new proposals will be needed to do so. But I will not be prepared to put forward proposals that threaten the very foundations of the functioning of the Swedish labour market. It repeats time and again that I should call on the parties to conclude agreements in line with the wishes of the Center Party. Let me put it this way: I have a lot of conversations with the parties. I have a very close dialogue with the parties, and I will continue to do so. It is clear that I am prepared to hold talks about different models that can facilitate the entry into the labour market of newly arrived people. For example, we have had talks about this with the fast track, which I believe has been positive and has received a lot of feedback from the parties. At the moment, one of the most difficult and largest contractual movements in the Swedish labour market is going on for a very long time – about 500 collective agreements will be renegotiated. It's a delicate situation. It is a high tone on the part of the parties in this debate. I do not envy the parties who, in this difficult situation, will be able to conclude agreements and hopefully keep working peace in Sweden. If, in that situation, I, as Minister of Labour, go in and call on the parties to agree on the motions of the Centre Party, then I think that could have devastating consequences for the conditions for reaching good agreements between the autonomous parties. I keep the arm's length away from wage formation, Madam President, especially at the time when we have an ongoing contractual movement.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-107	Madam President, I would like I listen in and try to hear what is said behind the raised voice. What I hear is that we have a Minister for Labour who sees and understands the challenge and who knows that this will be a difficult situation. I hear we don't share everything. Then we would not have been in this Chamber discussing this. I can also hear that what is in place today is not enough without the need for more and more. I do not think that the Minister for Labour needs to take with him or refer to the proposals of the Center Party. I believe that the Minister for Labour has full competence to take the discussions with the parties in a manner that is based on the Minister for Labour herself without her having to refer to the Center Party. Do you want to gag politics so that these issues cannot be raised or discussed? Raimo Pärssinen uses the favorite expression when it comes to these issues, namely that anyone who wants anything other than the Social Democrats has not understood the Swedish model. There is a similar tone on the part of the Minister for Labour: you should be careful to discuss these issues! I think it would be very unfortunate if the challenge we are now facing were not to be discussed here in Parliament or in the political debate in Sweden. That would be remarkable. I hope that there can be more and better proposals that can show a whole and meet all the challenges we face in the labour market.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-113	Madam President, I would like Of course, these issues must be raised and proposals made, absolutely! Of course, it is possible to make proposals that the policy should govern wage formation and to destroy the Swedish model or have special wishes for the parties' wage formation. Of course you have to have that debate, but you have to count on counter-attacks, and that is what the Center Party gets. I think that we need to come back to this, not just to these proposals to go into wage formation, but perhaps to, as I mean, more serious proposals on how to actually manage to get in the many new arrivals, of which about a third has a very low level of education and some may not even have worked. It is a very big challenge, and it will require new thinking in politics. I hope that we can continue to have a dialogue on this. Thank you for the debate.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-115	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me how many companies, and which companies, I have visited in the service. Since January 2015, I have visited about 15 companies, both in the service and industrial sectors. The focus has been on companies that are, or want to be, at the forefront of the labour market entry of young and newcomers. In addition, I have had fifteen meetings with companies. Through the 100-club initiative – Sweden together, the government and I have also had direct dialogue with a further ten business leaders. In particular, as Minister for Labour, I have an active and comprehensive dialogue with some forty employers' organisations and a number of trade unions for more effective labour market entry for newcomers. These dialogues have resulted, among other things, in fast track in the shortage professions. Sweden has strong employment growth: Now the challenge is to get the right person in the right place. At the same time as there are major recruitment needs of companies, there is a lack of certain skills. Challenge one is about how we can become better at taking advantage of foreign born knowledge and experience. The current situation requires that the government, authorities and companies take further steps to identify opportunities for more new arrivals to enter the labour market more quickly. Every week, individual ministers and our state authorities have contact with individual companies and with the social partners, who are also key players for a well-functioning labour market. As Minister for Labour, I think that dialogue is of course central.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-121	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg unfortunately received another commitment today, so I will take the debate in her place. I would, of course, like to begin by thanking the Minister for Employment for his reply. Boriana Åberg asked a written question a while ago about how many companies the Minister of Labour has visited in the ministry. The Minister's reply was very comprehensive, but there was no mention of the number of companies or companies visited by the Minister for Labour. In our opinion, it is important that leading representatives of the government and in particular the Minister for Labour visit companies. Without companies and entrepreneurs, we have no welfare in this country, and without employees we have no welfare either. In the response to today's debate, we are told that the Minister for Labour has visited 15 companies. That sounds a little bit. Which companies have been visited by the Minister for Labour, and are there any RUT or ROT entrepreneurs among those visits? It looks like business people's confidence in the Prime Minister and the government is falling. According to a survey reported in Dagens Industri a while ago, only 5 per cent of entrepreneurs had great or very great confidence in Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. The reason for this, of course, is mainly the policy pursued by the Social Democrats. Among other things, there was mention of an increase in marginal tax from 57 to 60 percent and the freezing of the cut-off point, which has meant that many more people have to pay government tax. We have the deterioration of the ROT and RUT, where we now see a strong brake on the ROT services. The issue of profit has also been a major factor of uncertainty in free welfare. We also have increased fuel taxes, which have affected mainly rural areas and small-scale entrepreneurs. Of course, we have also been uncertain and shabbed when it comes to Bypass Stockholm and Bromma Airport. This affects the business environment. If the Minister for Labour has not done so, I think she should visit some RUT or ROT company. A recent report shows that 17% of ROT companies have disappeared and growth in RUTs has slowed down sharply. Previously, they grew by about 10 percent a year. The latest figure I've seen is about 1%. One possibility is that there is no longer any demand for these services, but I believe it is still there. I'm guessing there's a risk that undeclared work is increasing. This, of course, also leads to a deterioration in tax standards in the country. There are studies showing that this may be the case. The proportion that says that you can imagine working black has increased slightly, as has the proportion that says that you can imagine using black labour. Most RUT companies are run by women, and they usually employ people who are far from the labour market. RUT has created more than 20 000 jobs since 2007, and it has been a very successful reform.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-130	Madam President, I would like I have met both RUT and ROT companies, and I have a dialogue with their industry organisations. Of course, I have also received comments on government policy. Let me explain why it is not easy to answer the question that has been asked. Sometimes I make official company and workplace visits. They're public. They're being watched by the media. But I also meet companies in other ways, such as when I am invited to more closed meetings. There you have discussions that you often do not want to have in public. Sometimes I invite companies myself to the Ministry of Labour or other parts of the government for dialogue on issues. I think it is important that the government representative and I, as Minister for Labour, can have dialogue and meet with companies without each meeting being publicly reported in the Swedish Parliament. I think it's conducive to the conversational climate. And what does visiting do? Is it to be on workplace visits, or is it to make a visit at the invitation of a company, even though you might meet in other forms? Let me give you an example. I made a visit to Mjärdevi Science Park, where Mjärdevi Science Park stood as an inviteer. There, in turn, a number of companies invited. Is it visiting companies? It is not quite easy to define it, and I am therefore replying with a little bit. Madam President, I would like I agree with Erik Andersson and Boriana Åberg that it is important for a Minister for Labour to visit different types of companies. This applies both to companies in different industries and to companies of a different nature – large ones and small ones, social enterprises and commercial companies. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the most important thing is that we are pursuing a policy for more and growing companies. A Minister for Labour can never get away with having made this or so many visits, but ultimately it is politics and the results of politics that determine how to be judged. But in order to have a basis for making good proposals, it is of course important that you both visit and in other ways have dialogue with central and local representatives who can give important input. The day before yesterday I visited both Ica Maxi in Södertälje and Delicato in Segeltorp. There are two completely different companies with completely different conditions and completely different problems. Both of those visits were public visits. Visits are important. I agree. However, it is not on the basis of the number of visits that voters will judge government policy, but they will do so on the basis of the impact on more and growing companies and unemployment. Right now we have very good developments in the labour market. Enterprise creation is increasing significantly and unemployment is falling. That doesn't mean we're without challenges. We have significant challenges, and more will be required to achieve the goals that the government has set itself. But the development is going in the right direction – it is quite obvious.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-140	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, of course. Now we got answers to which companies the Minister for Labour has visited. Then I realized that there are some visits that cannot be public for various reasons. One wonders, of course, whether the 15 visits mentioned by the Minister for Labour are only public. However, given that the confidence of the companies in the government's policies is at the bottom, I think it is good that the government's representatives are out visiting companies to hear what their views are and how to improve the business environment, for that matter. You can look at the RUT sector. If a more RUT-friendly policy were to be pursued in which the deduction would be maintained and extended to more services, this would result in about 16 000 more jobs in that sector than we have today. Unfortunately, however, they chose to halve the RUT deduction, and this means that growth in the industry is not growing. Now I know that the Minister for Labour will reply to me that the halving of the deduction affects only 1% of the Swedish people. But the thing is, when you make changes in functioning systems, it creates uncertainty in the industry. I mean, it's very unfortunate. Now the RUT deduction, due to the agreement that exists between the government and some parties in the Swedish Parliament, will be extended to floating services, IT services and gardening. Then it would be excellent if we could restore the RUT deduction to 50 000, as it was before, precisely because we have received new services for which we should be able to deduct them. Then perhaps we will bring unemployment down further.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-145	Madam President, I would like I just want to make it clear that I share the view that it is important to make company visits. I will, of course, do it – and I will do it – as Minister for Labour. But I would also like to say that I am absolutely convinced that there will be significant differences in the view of tax policy between the Moderates and the Social Democrats, no matter how many company visits I or Erik Andersson make. That should be the case, too. Perhaps the political debate should be about the content of the policy rather than about the number of visits to companies. But it's important to make company visits, and I do.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-146	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me whether I consider that there is a need to strengthen consumer guidance in the country's municipalities and how such reinforcement could be designed, and whether I intend to review the local authorities' consumer guidance. As the interpeller points out, consumer markets have become more complex. There are therefore more demands on us as consumers. Good consumer support is therefore becoming more important. This development has also been a fundamental reason for the establishment of Hallå konsument. Hello consumer provides through a website and a phone number as well as email and chat all consumers, no matter where in the country they live, access to independent information and consumer guidance. The experience of Hallå konsument is so far good and shows that the need for the information service is great. The service answers just under 400 questions a day. The Swedish Consumer Agency estimates that approximately 100 000 questions will be dealt with on an annual basis. The website is also well visited. The website has had over 825 000 visits, including over 600 000 users, since its launch on 31 March last year. Hello consumer is a complement to other activities in this area and above all to voluntary municipal consumer guidance. A functioning local consumer support is important for consumers who need to be able to visit a guide and get help with, for example, reviewing contracts or contacting an entrepreneur or for people with special needs such as the elderly, poor language or disabled. I recently invited Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, SKL, and a number of municipalities to a seminar. The background was that I wanted to hear the municipalities' experiences of Hallå konsument and how this service affects the municipal consumer guidance. One conclusion was that most municipalities have received fewer cases. At the same time, cases have become more complex and time-consuming, and the number of physical visits has increased in several cases. The state, the municipality and the business community need to work together to develop the help that Hallå konsument offers. The important work carried out in the municipalities must be taken into account. I note that municipalities often work together on consumer activities and that in some places they do so not only in terms of telephone information but also in terms of receiving visits and preventive work, a development which I find very interesting. I follow the development on an ongoing basis and will be interested in the Swedish Consumer Agency's summary of municipal consumer activities when it is presented later this spring. I will remain in contact with the municipalities and SKL. In addition, the Swedish Consumer Agency has a mission to evaluate Hallå konsument, which also includes the consequences for, among other things, municipal consumer guidance. The knowledge that I thus gain will provide an important basis for assessing whether measures are needed.
i-CmuiXP2mf69miWKWmNUPMi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation on the importance of municipal consumer guidance! It is becoming increasingly difficult and more complicated to be a consumer today. Despite the high level of consumer protection, consumers are constantly at a disadvantage. This applies both to the choice of products and to disputes. Today, consumers are exposed to high consumer pressure through various forms of marketing. More technologically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer many opportunities but also pose greater challenges for consumers. Many consumers need support and help to cope with this increasingly complex consumer jungle. I am pleased that the Government shares my view that consumer markets are becoming increasingly complex and that good consumer support is becoming increasingly important. I also agree with the Government on the importance of setting up the Hallå konsument service at the Swedish Consumer Agency, where all consumers across Sweden can turn for support, help and guidance. There is no doubt that there was a great need to set up this service, as demonstrated by the large number of questions received by the service. I also look forward to the evaluation that will come in due course. But it is very important, as the Government points out, to emphasise that Hallå konsument can never replace the municipal guidance but should only serve as a complement. Unfortunately, there are indications that several municipalities have taken the creation of Hallå konsument as a pretext for closing down municipal consumer guidance. That, of course, was not the idea. The national guidance can never replace the support provided by municipal activities through its direct support to consumers. Local guides also have knowledge of the local situation and provide specialised support in a number of areas. Guides also play an important role in dealing with the local business community. In May 2015, the Swedish Consumer Agency concluded that municipalities offering consumer guidance to their residents are decreasing for the first time in many years. According to the Swedish Consumer Agency, 523 000 people have no access to municipal consumer guidance today. According to the Swedish Consumers and Consumer Guides Association, 84 of the country's municipalities fall below the shame threshold set by the organisations for what is a reasonable level of consumer guidance. These municipalities offer very little or no consumer guidance at all. This means that 2 million consumers find it very difficult to get support and help. A lack of consumer guidance primarily affects resource-efficient groups – young people, newly arrived people, the elderly and people with disabilities. It is not reasonable for the possibility of good consumer guidance to depend on where in the country you live. I think it is necessary to look even more closely at what local consumer guidance looks like so that consumers are guaranteed equal support throughout the country.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-163	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Johnsson, for this important question! I am very pleased that there is a strong commitment here in Parliament and from the interpeller in terms of consumer guidance. It is, as the interpellier also points out, an area that is very important and is becoming increasingly important as our consumer behaviour and markets change and that marketing sometimes becomes more aggressive so that, for example, you have less time to understand offers and to make decisions. This means that we must constantly review how consumer guidance works, and that is something that I have been involved in from the very beginning as Minister of Consumer Affairs. We see that there are major challenges in the consumer markets, and we need to follow that up with different methods. That is where the consumer guidance is absolutely central. One of the most important factors is that we as consumers know where to turn and how to get information, help and support when faced with difficult decisions. There has been a problem with many consumers not being aware of the municipal consumer guidance. It has been difficult to find the right channel to get answers to their sometimes very quick and concrete questions, sometimes very complicated and time-consuming questions. Now we have an umbrella, a funnel you can call it, called Hello consumer. There you can turn to whatever question you have via phone, internet, chat and the like. The idea is that you can get answers there directly to the fastest and easiest questions, but if it is more complicated questions that, for example, concern local conditions or are quite complex then you will be passed on to, for example, municipal consumer advisors who sit on very large and deep knowledge. There are also different consumer agencies for different rather complex markets, such as the Consumer Banking and Financial Office, the Consumer Insurance Office, the Consumer Telecommunications and Internet Office and the Consumers' Energy Market Office, and they can answer questions about precisely markets that many consumers experience as complex and difficult. The government has also made a historic strengthening of the budget in the area of consumer affairs. It is about giving more support to civil organisations working on consumer information, and it is also aimed at, for example, the General Complaints Board, which has now had a great many more cases to deal with. There, we consumers can have dispute resolution and hopefully have our complaints assessed, and where we are right, we can also get a right against sellers and companies. This strengthening will also make it easier for consumer guidance and the whole consumer system to function. However, the municipalities have, and I would really like to give the interpellier the right, a crucial role for the whole system to function. I am also concerned about the development we are seeing in some municipalities where consumer guidance is being reduced. At the same time, 260 of the country's municipalities have consumer guidance, so only about thirty, mostly small, municipalities do not have this. But that is a big enough problem in itself, I think, to take it very seriously. I believe that some of the challenges can be solved by municipalities working together and trying to have consumer guidance together, because there is no doubt that municipal consumer guidance is urgently needed today and will be needed in the future. From the government's side, we want to support and make it easier for municipalities to carry out good activities, and the Swedish Consumer Agency also has an important role to play in providing knowledge and good documentation so that it is easier for municipalities to carry out these activities. We will continue to press the municipalities and describe how important we think it is to have a well-functioning consumer guide in municipal direction, because it is crucial for us consumers to be able to get the help we need.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-173	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister shares my view that consumer guidance is extremely important and central and that it will continue to keep the consumer market under constant review. I think that is absolutely necessary. As I said, there are today great demands on consumers to make informed and active choices. It is therefore important that local authorities have expertise to help interpret the large number of laws governing consumer law and to provide information on the rights and obligations of consumers. A growing problem is that in many municipalities consumer guidance has been provided in civic offices where those who work often lack an in-depth knowledge of consumer issues. Consumer issues deal with a very large area that requires a high level of competence, constant updating and in-depth knowledge, not least in consumer law where laws and practices are constantly evolving. Consumer business spans a very large area with issues such as home electronics, vehicles, travel, crafts services, housing issues, personal equipment, insurance, financial services, electricity, telephony and many, many more. Citizens' offices, with their generous opening hours, can be an excellent complement to their activities but cannot replace consumer guides with adequate education in the consumer field. Today, it is voluntary for municipalities to offer consumer guidance. There are municipalities that offer good access to guidance, and there are municipalities that do not offer any guidance at all. Given that some 2 million consumers lack, or are offered, inadequate consumer guidance, I think something needs to be done. I believe that we need to start discussing seriously the possibility of legislating on compulsory consumer guidance for municipalities. Small municipalities could start working together on these issues in order to solve the practical organisation. The Minister also says that the government has made an historic strengthening in the area of consumer protection. That's right, and it's very good. I think that part of such an initiative in the future could also be directed directly to the municipalities, that this is something that could at least be discussed, because, as the Minister says, the consumer guidance of the municipalities has a very central role. Of course, in this context too, demands must be made on the content and design of the activity. A key part of this work must be prevention. Many municipalities currently lack effective preventive work. A preventive activity aimed at creating more enlightened consumers is socially profitable; it saves money for individuals but also for the municipality and society at large. It is particularly important to target information activities at young people in high school and upper secondary school. Other priority groups must be older people, newcomers and people with disabilities. These groups are often weak in resources and may find it difficult to obtain information on their own where to go for support and help. This work could also involve cooperation with local associations and study associations. Such cooperation could create wider experience and in-depth expertise on the ground. I am convinced that we need to find ways forward in order to have a more uniform consumer guide in the country. The possibility of receiving support and assistance as a consumer should not be determined by where in the country you live.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-182	Madam President, I would like I share the view that we need to constantly review the development of consumer guidance. The examples of municipalities that have reduced or even stopped consumer guidance are extremely worrying. I can also be a little upset when one pulls down the argument that there is now Hello consumer, a consumer road traffic management service at national level. Then I think that one has completely misunderstood one's role. There is no doubt from the government that Hallå konsument is a complement to municipal consumer guidance, which is the central part of the guidance chain. The role of the consumer is very much fulfilled by being a simple channel and providing a simple input, regardless of the consumer issues. It can also provide the opportunity for answers during holiday periods or at other times when it may be difficult to get good activities to work in the municipalities. I therefore see that these services are very complementary. They in no way exclude each other, and Hello consumer does not mean that there is no need for municipal consumer guidance. On the contrary, I see an increasing need, and the first results of the evaluation of Hallå konsument also show that the issues are very much left for municipal consumer guidance. In many cases, the issues have also become more complex and need more time, and you need resources for that. In my contacts with municipal representatives and also with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, I have been very clear that I expect these are areas that will continue to be prioritised. Local government representatives have a great responsibility to ensure that consumer guidance works, because we consumers are in an increasingly complex market. I am pleased that a strong majority of Sweden's municipalities still see the need for consumer guidance to be developed in the future. The preventive work that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve lifts up is also worth mentioning. It's important. The best protection for us consumers is that we are well equipped already when the consumer opportunity arises, that is to say that we have the knowledge with us from, for example, the school and the education system. There are some positive trends as municipal consumer guidance has been relieved by the fact that Hallå konsument can take the easy questions by telephone. In this way, there will be greater opportunities to work preventively, to make more visits to schools and to help provide knowledge and information about the consumer acquis and consumer rights. The state is also making other efforts. The Swedish Consumer Agency offers education and training to new consumer advisors. There is ongoing information on current consumer issues to the municipal consumer guidance service. There is also a forum, a portal, called Ask the expert where consumer advisors can get answers to current questions. It is a complex regulatory framework to take a position on. There is a statistical programme provided by the Swedish Consumer Agency and annual training days. There is strong state support for the municipal consumer guidance to maintain the necessary quality. However, there are currently no plans to make consumer guidance mandatory. We think that the municipalities as a whole see the need for consumer guidance and what efforts are needed to provide the citizens with adequate services. We will continue to engage in dialogue and press for the municipalities to ensure that consumer guidance does not work unless the municipalities give high priority to the issue.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-192	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the government has raised the issue. I fully agree with the importance of starting Hello consumer, where consumers from all over the country can turn for support and help. But it should only be a complement to the consumer guidance. The study of the calls made so far shows that pressure on local consumer guides has increased. The issues are becoming more complex. We also see a need for a municipal consumer guide to continue to exist. At the same time, there is a worrying tendency that several municipalities have closed down their activities and refer to the establishment of Hallå konsument. In many municipalities there is a lack of information. As shown by Sweden's K onsumers and the Consumers' Guides Association, about 2 million consumers have access to poor or no consumer guidance at all. It's troubling. I've been wondering if it's enough to talk to the municipalities. There may be a need for mandatory legislation to ensure that all consumers are given equal consumer guidance. I think we can continue the discussion and debate in the future and continue to follow this extremely important issue.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-196	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for an interesting discussion on an important issue. I am therefore grateful that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has raised the issue and will continue to do so. It needs to be discussed in the future. Not only as Minister of Consumer Affairs, but also as consumer, I see that new issues are constantly emerging in the consumer markets. We see that consumers as a whole are changing behaviour in terms of how they buy and consume and what they consume. For example, they are beginning to make greater use of the different parts of the economy. There will be new questions to which answers will be needed. We can see that people's interest in buying organic products and reducing the environmental impact of their consumption is growing all the time. Fairtrade sales are also growing rapidly in Sweden. Consumers are acting. As the consumer market changes and consumer behaviour changes, new questions also arise that need to be answered. The government has made it clear to the local government sector that consumer issues are a high priority. The government has also been sensitive and asked whether additional tools are needed or whether the state can provide more support to facilitate the maintenance of good activities by municipalities. The Government is actively working with different parts of the consumer market, including issues of over-indebtedness. It is a question of social sustainability – more and more people are in trouble because of over-indebtedness. The government has developed many tools. Sustainable consumption is also an area that engages the government. What binds these areas together is the need for better information and knowledge. There, consumer guidance has an important role to play. The government will continue to monitor the issue. The Swedish Consumer Agency will report the results of Hallå konsument on 30 April this year. The final report will then be published on 30 June 2017. At each such reporting point, we receive new information that will enable us to move forward to ensure that consumer guidance works well both today and well into the future.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-203	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked the Minister for Defence what measures he is prepared to take to ensure that Swedish Radio's decision to stop news about Sweden in Russian can be reconsidered and preceded by a more comprehensive preparation. The question has been handed over to me. It is part of the Swedish Radio's mission to give Swedes who are abroad and foreign audiences the opportunity to get information about and maintain contact with Sweden. The programmes should aim to provide knowledge of Sweden and contribute to the understanding of Swedish society. Swedish Radio has had this mission for a long time. As I explained in a previous answer to a parliamentary question on 17 February this year about Sweden's responsibility for independent news media, there is no regulation of the language or languages in which Swedish Radio's activities abroad are to be conducted. The language choices are editorial decisions that Swedish Radio makes without the involvement of the government and parliament. I should also like to add that it is the Radio and Television Audit Board that is responsible for assessing whether the company has fulfilled its mandate in accordance with the conditions of the broadcasting licence, the terms of the grant and other decisions made by the Government. There are special conditions relating to preparedness and security in the broadcasting licences of public service broadcasters. However, the Swedish Radio's mission for programme activities abroad is not linked to these conditions. It is important that changes to the public service companies' tasks are preceded by a process that is both comprehensive and transparent. It usually happens before each new permit period through the usual investigation, referral and proposal. According to the Riksdag's decision for the current permit period 2014 – 2019, a mid-term review will be carried out, which means after the end of 2016. Swedish Radio's decision on Radio Sweden and a change of direction of this activity have been announced during the current permit period, which has raised questions about how Swedish Radio perceives its mission. The Ministry of Culture is conducting a dialogue with Swedish Radio on this. As evidenced by the government's defence policy bill, the government considers that the deteriorating world situation raises the need for a psychological defence adapted to today's circumstances. Influence campaigns are underway against Sweden, and the relevant authorities and actors must be able, with respect for the constitutionally protected freedom of expression and pressure, to identify and meet impact campaigns and neutralize propaganda campaigns both during peacetime and under increased preparedness. This requires that Sweden, individually and together with others, develop the ability to identify and meet such activities. The Government conducts a dialogue with authorities and stakeholders on this development.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-209	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer. The Minister for Culture concludes his relatively detailed response by focusing on the need for psychological defence and the possibility of meeting pressure campaigns from other countries. In view of the current international situation, it is quite natural to stop there, Madam President. However, this is not really my question. Madam President, I would like For more than ten years, we have been able to see how Russia has, in various ways, cut its ties with the outside world and increasingly isolated itself politically and culturally. Human rights organisations – foreign ones operating in Russia – have also been labeled foreign agents for a long time. Media companies with foreign majority ownership are not allowed today. In parallel, in the case of Russian media, freedom of the press has been effectively and systematically dismantled. That is why I think it is both remarkable and most unfortunate that we are beginning to cut our ties with Russia in this particular situation. The timing must be described as the worst possible, Madam President. As a liberal, I am the first to protect the editorial integrity of public services, but it is important to understand that the issue of Russian-speaking broadcasting is not about content or selection of news. Rather, it is the form it is about, and it should really be as natural as taking into account, for example, people with disabilities in our broadcasting permits. Otherwise, there is in the broadcasting licence that is now an example that politics is still involved in governing editorial content. For example, Section 12 of the current broadcasting permit states that programmes about and from the Nordic neighbouring countries are to be broadcast in order to strengthen the Nordic cultural community. I believe, however, that the question I raise in the interpellation is not of that kind. The Minister for Culture now notes that Swedish Radio's programme activities are not linked to preparedness and security. She also notes that it is the Swedish National Audit Board that supervises Swedish Radio's actions in accordance with the agreement. It is a statement of what the situation is right now and that the policy is prevented in various ways from having views in this context. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Culture will also make this concrete at the end and say that there is now a dialogue between the Ministry of Culture and Swedish Radio, because the change takes place under a valid broadcasting permit. My question to the Minister for Culture is, of course: Does the government in the dialogue with Swedish Radio indicate the importance of Russian-speaking people abroad also continuing to receive objective communication of Swedish news through public service?
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-215	Madam President, I would like I thank Allan Widman for the continuing questions. Allan Widman brings up several different things, and that is good; we should be able to do that if we are to deal with this. But when you mix several serious and big questions, it is also a matter of keeping your tongue right in the mouth and being able to handle the different issues and see how they interact with each other. I am pleased that Allan Widman emphasises that the Liberals protect the independence of public services. It is customary for the Liberals to do so, and it bodes well for future discussions on the forthcoming broadcasting permit. But if you care about the independence of public services, if you care about Sweden's defence and if you care about how the world is developing – and not least how Europe is developing at the moment, which is a very worrying development from many perspectives – you should also pay particular attention to the independence of public services and the editorial decisions that public services make under current broadcasting permits. The day we start to question publicist decisions – and unfortunately that day is here – we too are there and we are cutting the limits of freedom of the press, publicist decisions and independence. I would like to stress strongly the importance of allowing the broadcasting licence to be a broadcast licence. It's a signed deal, and a deal is kept. I look forward to the questions raised by Allan Widman during the current state of transmission becoming part of the basis for future discussions on a new broadcasting permit, if there is any need for clarification. Allan Widman mentioned some examples of cases where he believes that politics governs in current broadcasting permits. That's part of the deal. Then we have a deal, and then we follow it. There is nothing that makes me more worried or provoked than to go into and change the basic conditions. I would therefore like to emphasise once again what I said, namely that there is an agreement. These are publicist decisions, and we must safeguard the independence of public services. It is also to protect Sweden's future and defence. At the same time, we have several other policy areas, such as the defence policy area, where I know that Minister Hultqvist looks forward to several issues that can affect how the world and development are handled in different ways.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-221	Madam President, I would like After all, I asked Peter Hultqvist my question because he is responsible in the government for total defence planning. This is, however, an issue which, as the Minister of Culture has also pointed out, is part of the area of defence and security policy. I can begin by saying that my final question was whether the current dialogue between the Government and Swedish Radio means that the Government addresses the importance of Swedish objective news media in the Russian language as well. I am fully aware of the sensitive areas in which we are now moving, but I would have appreciated at least some kind of hint of an answer to that question. I also note that the Minister for Culture points out that Swedish Radio is making this change during an existing contractual period. As I said, I am the first to protect the editorial integrity of public services, and we should not in any way mess it up. I have tried to stress that I am not looking to influence in any way the content or selection of the news that is conveyed, but that this is only about the form – the possibilities for Russian-speaking people outside our country to take part in what is happening in Sweden. As the Minister for Culture said, it helps to increase understanding of Sweden. It is not just people in Russia's borders that we are talking about. Basically in all 14 former Soviet republics, Russian is a language which, if it does not dominate, is one of the most commonly spoken. It is therefore of great importance to far more countries than Russia. Once upon a time, it was also, I believe, that it was the National Board of Civil Preparedness that financed precisely the Russian-speaking broadcasts. It was done as far as I understand it without having to have a major debate on editorial integrity, because it was just about form and not about selection and content. My question to the Minister for Culture, in addition to what I said in my previous speech, is therefore whether it would be possible, within the framework of the coordination of the government on such a matter, to open up to, for example, funding from other sources than culture.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-226	Mr. Old President! I am not sure whether I understood the last question of funding, so I will skip it. Perhaps I will have a clarification in the next speech. But I would still like to answer a few other questions. Under my remit as Minister of Culture and Democracy, I have a number of authorities and institutions. Dialogue with them is a way in which we run our country on an ongoing basis, and that is how the administration works. These are routine dialogues where we talk about the cooperation and tasks we have. Of course, such a dialogue is also taking place with the public service broadcasters, but it takes place in very strict forms about what is being talked about and what is not, precisely because in politics we must never contribute to undermining and undermining confidence and independence. I am very s tolt when I travel around Europe – which I do diligently, not least in these times of anxiety and change that undermine the freedoms that all of us who love our Europe and Europe care about. There I often emphasize and boast about our public service and how clear you are in your approach to politics and power so that you can review me and us. I'd like to spend some time on the cultural exchange. It is more important than ever that we spread knowledge of our countries when propaganda is clear and obvious and actually aims to threaten our constitutionally protected freedoms and want to destroy what generations of Swedes before us have built up. I can only agree with Allan Widman that culture and language are important and that we have the opportunity to communicate, communicate and share our values and what we want with the world. It can also be about giving people hope for a better future. I recently appointed a new Cultural Council in Moscow, which has the task of promoting exchanges, in this case between Russia and Sweden. It involves cultural workers and institutions from Sweden going to Russia and participating in festivals, meetings and literary festivals and promoting Swedish culture and art wide and large. It's probably never been more important, I'd say. We see what a great need there is from people who have a curiosity even though they live under constant propaganda internally from their own countries about how dangerous Sweden is and how wrong we are. That is why it is crucial that we continue with this interaction. As Minister for Culture and Democracy, I am also active and meet my colleagues, especially around Europe, and I am constantly raising the importance of our having an exchange with each other even if there are regimes that are taking steps in a direction that we never want to go in when it comes to freedom of expression, press freedom and all the freedoms that we are so proud of. I am pleased with the interest shown by Allan Widman in understanding how all the different policy areas interact. This is not just about having a track and driving on it, but we need to use as many tools as we can find to protect what we believe in and our democracy. I look forward to future discussions – for example on the next broadcasting permit, when the Liberals are to appoint their representative for the parliamentary review – and that we get a broad understanding of the serious issues involved and that we have to fight to defend our freedoms.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-237	Mr. Old President! The Minister for Culture and I absolutely share the concerns about how Europe is developing at the moment and, not least, about how Russia is developing. At the same time as we are never going to enter the red-active integrity of when, especially in public service and otherwise, neither, for that matter, must we not become too blue-eyed. Today, Russian media are pumping out propaganda concerning Sweden and, as the Minister for Culture says, Sweden is portraying itself as an aggressive, hostile country. Corresponding propaganda exists for many other Central and Western European countries. While Russia is dismantling the freedom of the press in the country, it manages to use, among other things, Swedish infrastructure to reach out with its propaganda in different ways in Europe. It is therefore important that we do not become too blue-eyed but, of course, with respect for all democratic rights, at least do what we can to balance what is currently undermining security in northern and central Europe. I asked the Minister for Culture a question. I'm sorry if it was poorly worded. I'll do it again. There is an interest, for example, in the defence and security sectors. Many authorities are critical of what is now happening. Among other MSBs, doubts have been expressed about the fact that Russian-speaking broadcasts are currently being lost. Could we, as in the past – it was not so long ago – have a system in which authorities in the defence and security sectors, for example, pay for Russian-speaking news broadcasts in Sweden's R adio?
i-52NeQdKXZ36dxwsGzD1Nnb	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Allan Widman, for this debate and for clarifying the last question. In the run-up to the forthcoming permit investigation, we should look widely and widely at and gather all the issues. We live in a changing time. We need to be constantly on guard, paying attention to what we may need to change. I must, of course, be open to suggestions on how to do and shape future broadcasting permits. That's the answer to the question. I'm always open to suggestions. Then we will see how we deal with them in parliamentary order and what we come up with. It is incredibly important that broadcasting permits have a good parliamentary base, because it is about the future for many years to come. To conclude, I would like to stress once again the importance of publicist independence – that Swedish Radio and all public service broadcasters are independent of politics, that editorial decisions are respected and kept and that we refer detailed discussions in ongoing agreements to the order in which they are to be handled. Having said that, I thank you for the debate.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-246	Mr. Old President! Cecilia Magnusson has asked me what measures I think could be taken to curb the illegal trade in cultural goods from Iraq and Syria. She has also asked what measures I think could be taken to increase Sweden's knowledge of its drawback commitments. As the questions relate partly to different problems, I would like to answer them in turn. I would like to start by saying that I share Cecilia Magnusson's view that the illegal trade in cultural goods that is taking place in Syria and Iraq and which contributes to the financing of terrorist groups such as Daish is totally unacceptable. As Cecilia Magn usson already knows, I together with my Nordic Ministries of Culture took egos in May last year at our meeting in the Faroe Islands initiative for Nordic cooperation to strengthen our common ability to meet the problem of illegal trade. As part of this, I have also met with our central national authorities to question me about how their work on this is progressing. I can see that the work is in progress. The National Antiquities Office, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, the Royal Library, the National Museums of World Culture, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Unesco Council met in Oslo in December last year Nordic colleagues to discuss both national conditions and cooperation between the countries. As a result of this meeting, a Nordic collaboration group at government level is now being formed to strengthen capacity and competence. The National Antiquities Office functions as a coordinating body, has an important role in the work and, together with the UNESCO Council, conducts a public debate in order to attract attention to the illegal trade. I have also taken note of the fact that the Swedish police are setting up a special group that works with cultural heritage crimes. I think that's very important. The fight against this type of crime requires a high degree of specialisation and knowledge of the field in order to be successful. Therefore, it is also valuable that the authorities share knowledge with each other and can act together, both in Sweden and within the Nordic region. The Ministry of Culture is following this issue through close contacts with UNESCO and other international bodies. As Cecilia Magnusson will be aware, the issue is also topical within the UN through Security Council Resolution 2199, within the Council of Europe, including through the joint declaration by the Ministers of Culture in Namur last year, and within the EU, including within the framework of import rules. Now to the question of increasing knowledge of the country's drawback commitments. Cecilia Magnusson has mentioned in her question the important international conclusions and declarations that we have supported from Sweden at meetings in Washington and Terezin. On 20 November last, Cecilia Magnusson raised the question with me, and I also answered it at that time. I share the view that this is an important issue. Sweden and the Swedish authorities should follow the direction set out in these documents. The museum authorities are responsible for their collections and must keep their archives with relevant information about the collections available on the basis of the principle of public access. Within the framework of the service obligation, they should also assist in the search of objects which may be stolen.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-255	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the answer that the Minister for Culture has given to my questions! I do not hesitate about the position of the Minister for Culture or the Government, that this is an important issue. What I question is the capacity for action and the action plan. It is one thing to answer a question on a special occasion in the EU Council and a completely different matter when the Minister for Culture actually has to act in the case I ask. I've asked you two questions. What is happening today happened 70 years ago and has happened before. It's not a bad thing, Mr. Old President. It's the same thing, but it happens at different times in history. The important work that has been started, with cooperation between authorities and special efforts by the police, must be properly steered. The Minister for Culture did not say in his reply what guidelines the authorities have been given for the work. What are the demands of this cooperation? I'd like to take a quote from Wesley A Fischer at a conference. He said: It's not just about art. It is also a matter of a restitution of history. To clarify what actually happened and learn from it. That's what matters. Although Emil Noldes's painting is the only thing ever returned, it is important for Sweden to go through all its collections. And if you find anything to say, we've been looking at our history and we admit that we have these paintings that are like ghosts from the past. We don't know who they belong to, but we have them, and we'll return them if we can. ..................................................... We must do what we can to stop the plundering that is taking place today in Syria and to stop the illegal resale of the stolen items. But we also have to settle our story. The two commitments we have include an independent commission, that the government will appoint an independent commission to find out what is in our collections that may have been purchased during the 50's or 60's in the rest of Europe or the rest of the world, just like the painting painted by Nolde that the Moderna Museet had in its collections, and be able to finish with history. There are other countries that have done so: the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Austria, Germany. Why, Mr President of the Age, can't the Minister of Culture in this House say, 'We're going to set up an independent Commission and settle up with history'?
i-W2PZc5yR89P7TzRG4nADrU	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Cecilia Magnusson, for further questions! First of all, I would like to comment on what Cecilia Magnusson said about what is happening now and that it is exactly the same. I think we should be careful to compare over time, especially to compare what is currently going on with the Holocaust. There are similarities but that it is exactly the same thing I think we should be very careful to say. Having said that, I would really like to emphasise the terrible threats that lie in the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage, not only to destroy the things themselves but also to destroy whole peoples. It is happening right now, around the world, not least in Syria and Iraq. It is a threat to the history of all mankind and what we all share in order to build a future. I am surprised that Cecilia Magnusson is asking why I am not acting. I've acted with power. I have initiated calls and meetings with my Nordic colleagues. I've had meetings with Irina Bokova and raised the issue. I have participated in a number of processes, precisely to draw attention to the issue and to ensure that we in Sweden are working vigorously to be part of this illegal trade. There are a lot of things going on in which we are taking part. As I mentioned in the answer, Sweden is on the UNESCO Board. We have a significant role on the UNESCO Board, where the issue is high on the agenda and where we are active. We are part of the UN and work on the basis of guidelines presented. We actively participate in several works within UNESCO. We have a delegation on the ground in Paris that follows the day-to-day work. I will again meet Irina Bokova, director-general of UNESCO, in Almedalen to see how we will take this issue further on the basis of the first steps we have taken. We are working within the framework of the World Commission, where we draw attention to the issue. In addition, we have the concrete work with our authorities. Surely that is acting! I do not know what additional tools can be used forcefully as ministers and politicians. We have the National Heritage Office, which coordinates a collaboration group at government level just to get to grips with the issue. These include the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, the police, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Museums of World Culture, the Royal Library and the Unesco Council. I would like to say that we are acting vigorously to ensure that trade is stopped and that the destruction itself is prevented.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-268	Mr. Old President! It's interesting to listen to the Minister of Culture. But I would like her to be a little more clear-cut and to answer the questions I have asked. What guidelines for cooperation has the government given to the authorities? What do you want back? What are they going to account for in this collaboration? Collaboration is very important, but I want to know specifically what the government sees as being able to achieve and improve through this collaboration. Because it is extremely important. I have no other opinion than that of the Minister for Culture that it is important that we run the issues on the UNESCO Board and in the various UN bodies, where we are also one of the largest contributors. But we should be able to make much better use of our dominant position as contributors. It is great if the Minister for Culture and other ministers push these issues forward. But the question was about what we do in Sweden with our authorities. How are we going to reconnect this? Can we do more? It's extremely central. Mr. Old President! We must also go back to history. We haven't made a deal with our story. It is extremely important that we do so and that we actually go through our collections. We have signed that we will go through our collections to see if we have any of the shame left over in our state museums. Mr. Old President! I find it strange that the Minister for Culture of the Swedish Parliament cannot say: yes, I intend to ensure that we set up an independent Commission, just as we have signed declarations on Terezin and Washington. It would be neat and very grateful if the Minister for Culture could answer my questions.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-275	Mr. Old President! I will continue to provide answers. That's all I do. But I don't know how much Cecilia Magnusson listens. If there is reason for us to act, we will, and there has been reason. With this happening now in Iraq and Syria, we have acted, and we have acted vigorously. As far as our history is concerned, an investigation was carried out in 1999. Right after the war, between 1947 and 1956, if I'm not mistaken, a job was done. In other words, we have an established order of return. At the same time, we must be clear that no case is the same. This does not mean that we are not being extremely humble about the existence of such objects. It cannot be ruled out. We have thousands and thousands of objects in our collections, and of course nothing can be excluded. Therefore, we even have a system of responsibility for each authority that if there is a suspicion that there would be such an object, one is obliged to investigate it and have a system for how to do it. It's central. We are completely open to and humbled by the fact that the objects of shame can be found in our collections. It's the basic attitude. We're ready for it. It would be terrible if that were the case, but it could be the case. We also have a system for how to proceed. Apart from that, we must be on guard, not least when we buy new items for our collections. There is also a very clear and precise order for this. And there is a great deal of expertise among our museum staff and our museum managers about which documents must be there as a basis. You have to find out which owners have been as far back in history as possible to ensure that nothing is purchased where it is not right. So awareness of this is great. In addition, it is very digitised, which we should be proud of. If you compare with many other museum activities in Europe and around the world, Sweden is one of the countries where it is easiest for others to go in and see what is actually in our collections. Thus, you might find something that allows you to move on and find the true origin of objects. Right now we have no indication that there would be objects of this kind in our government collections. However, should it turn out that our regulations are not sufficient, I will of course work to ensure that we take further action. That is precisely why this interaction between all the authorities and the police's efforts is so important. There the experts meet to discuss what they may have missed and what to proceed with. Then I will have a basis that I can move forward with and take on the responsibility that I, as Minister for Culture and Democracy, shall take.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-282	Mr. Old President! I am delighted that the Minister of Culture could now show what she really means. This government is not proactive, it's reactive. As Mr. Old President heard, if there's a reason, we'll do it a. There is also an established order. And if there's a request, we're gonna do this. But that is not what Terezin and Washington declarations are about. They are about being proactive, going through your collections and making sure that you have made it clear that there is no shame left in the government collections. The case of the Nolde painting at Moderna Museet recently showed that it is not a good order in the Swedish state museum world. Mr. Old President! If we now have digitised collections, as the Minister for Culture says, it is so easy to find out. But what is the difficulty for the government and the Minister for Culture when it comes to setting up an independent commission that goes through all the collections, so that we can say for once: No, in Sweden there is no stolen estate from the Second World War that has belonged to people who have been robbed and murdered and who have had to pay with their property. There is no such thing in Sweden. Mr. Old President! That is what my question was about. I am sorry that most of the answers remain. But the Minister for Culture has one more chance in this debate to answer that.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-287	Mr. Old President! Cecilia Magnusson is sorry. That's remarkable. She asks me why I'm not proactive. Can you be more proactive than gathering your authorities? Can one be more proactive as a minister than taking the initiative for Nordic ministers to go through this? Can you be more proactive than meeting Irina Bokova? Then I wonder how sad Cecilia Magnusson was during the period of the former Minister of Culture. We have been through this and we have as much control as we can have today. But I'm humble, and that's why I can't say I know for sure. We have hundreds of thousands of objects. How can I say that there is absolutely nothing there? However, because the authorities are so aware and because they have such knowledge, we have no indication at this very moment that such objects should exist. When you have reason to investigate something, you should do it. You shouldn't do it just for the sake of being careless with taxpayers' money. Then it is better that the police set up whole units, that we work together in Europe and that we do everything we can. I would like to stress once again the importance of our having great responsibilities and responsibility to ensure that we do not have stolen items in our museums. We have a great responsibility to be transparent. That is why we have digitised this, so that everyone can see what we actually have. If it turns out that there are any such objects, we have proactively worked out a system for ensuring that these objects come to their rightful owner. I am proud of the work that our museums are doing on these issues at the moment, because this is relevant to the terrible things that are going on in Syria and in Iraq. I hope that there are many of us who understand the importance of stopping the destruction of cultural heritage around the world and the importance of stopping illegal trade.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-293	Mr. Old President! Cecilia Magnusson has asked me how I intend to discuss how we can find other forms of funding for Swedish film. Magnusson refers to what has been said at an open hearing in the Committee on Culture on 25 February on the subject of the conditions for Swedish film. At the moment, a historic shift in film policy is taking place. The state will take overall responsibility for film policy from 1 January 2017. The conversion is financed, in accordance with Parliament's decision, by increasing VAT on access to cinema performances. At the hearing, I was clear that two basic conditions were guiding the transition. One is that more industry players will have influence over the design of film policy than with the film agreement. The second is that the conversion should not lead to less money for Swedish film. As I was also at the hearing, the increase in VAT means that the state can finance the production, distribution and display of Swedish films at the same level as today. The resources raised by the VAT increase create a solid foundation that can be further strengthened by more actors contributing funding. For example, Swedish Television has announced an investment of SEK 100 million in Swedish film. In addition, the net effect of the VAT increase for cinemas will in most cases be limited, as the cinema fee will be abolished at the same time. Against this background, there is no reason to change Parliament's decision on financing through an increase in VAT. There are, however, strong reasons for continuing discussions at different levels – between industry and politics and in politics – on how we can create better conditions for Swedish film, including funding, now and in the future. Once the state has left the film agreement, new opportunities for collaboration are opened at different levels. For example, the government has already started discussions with the regions on how to strengthen synergies between national and regional film policy. The film agreement model has long been criticised for limiting Parliament's influence on film policy. The new model of film policy creates opportunities for political discussions in Parliament in the same way as for the cultural area in general. In the context of these forthcoming discussions, I am obviously interested in taking note of other concrete proposals that are put forward on how Swedish film can be funded in the future.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-300	Mr. Old President! These are interesting times we live in. Yesterday we thought that we would finally get a film bill on Parliament's table. The government had convened a press conference. It's a long-awaited bill. It's very late. It was due to arrive in December, according to the Culture Minister's duties to the Culture Committee in June 2015. Expectations are huge. But we still haven't got a movie bill on our table. But the Minister of Culture has had a press conference on this non-existent bill, can you imagine? It's said to have two directions. One is to create more resources for the film industry. D a second is that you should have more influence. Unfortunately, I have not been able to read the bill yet because it is not on Parliament's table. But from what I have heard, there has hardly been a thinner message than that presented at the press conference. The Minister for Culture says in his reply that she and the government should take overall responsibility for film policy. But the only thing that has been achieved is that they raise the VAT on cinema tickets, from 6 to 25 percent. The Minister for Culture risks kicking out the conditions for people in sparsely populated areas to see cinema performances. The digitisation of country cinemas initiated by the Alliance Government, which has been successful, is completely overturned as cinemas have to close. I do not think that is taking overall responsibility. Mr. Old President! When the Culture Committee organised a public hearing on future film policy, many people were delighted when the Minister for Culture said that she could imagine a broader funding of Swedish film than raising cinema VAT. Unfortunately, however, with the reply of the Minister for Culture today, I realise that this is not the case. She is not prepared to discuss broader funding. However, I believe that changes can be made. So I ask the Minister for Culture: is the government prepared to make efforts to facilitate venture capital to enter the film industry? Is the Minister of Culture prepared to support forms of support for loans for film production? Is the Minister for Culture prepared to discuss production discounts for Swedish and foreign film companies? Is the Minister of Culture prepared to discuss the fact that distributors are also contributing to this work? And is the Minister of Culture prepared to do something about piracy, which leaves the film industry far more than tax money to contribute to film production? It would be nice to have some information on those questions.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-307	Mr. Old President! What struck me in the debate was that the government raises VAT on cinema tickets while choosing to have free visits to state museums. That's a weird priority. If you look at culture around the country, you can see that the small cinemas in the countryside are dependent on VAT not being increased. The risk is that cinemas in the country will close. We have a large rural area in Sweden. This has been tried in Spain. And as I understand it, the development there became such that smaller cinemas had to close when you raised the VAT. My question to the Minister for Culture is: How is it that you choose to prioritise in this way, so that the state museums, which are mainly located in Stockholm, will have free admission? At the same time, you raise cinema VAT for all cinemas throughout the country. You refer to the cinema fee, but as I understand it does not help the smaller cinemas because they do not already pay the cinema fee today. Only the larger cinemas do that.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-310	Mr. Old President! I am pleased to have reason to answer questions from two Members. I wish there were more. I am also pleased that Erik Andersson is addressing more aspects of cultural policy. If there is something that I am extremely proud and happy about as Minister for Culture and Democracy in the Swedish Government, it is that we are a government that invests in our country. We invest in culture, and we let culture cost money. If you take a look at the Moderate Culture Budget for 2016 – both Erik Andersson and Cecilia Magnusson belong to the Moderates – it becomes clear that they leave all the culture in our country and leave the culture to be something that the rich, those who have money over, can take part of. Therefore, I am very happy and a little surprised that the two Moderates here are subject to this review. If there is something that the Moderates, together with the others, have made clear, it is that culture must not cost money. Culture is something that those who have money left over can devote themselves to on Sundays as a Sunday pleasure. I, who represent a red-green government, know that culture is something that everyone needs, all children and young people. That is why we are investing in cultural school. We invest SEK 100 million to make cultural school available to more people. It shouldn't depend on whether you have parents who can afford it or not. There should be many instruments to access. There are supposed to be teachers and cultural schools all over the country. That's where we're also betting on the film. Film is a policy area which has been dealt with during all the criticisms for many years. It is almost impressive that Cecilia Magnusson and Erik Andersson, who have been politicians for so long, have not heard the film industry's cry for help, have not understood how many who struggle and work to manage to produce a film, have not understood that one can not only focus on those who make money on Swedish film, which is a few. It is the actors who have sat around the film table while other actors have dropped off one by one. What was my starting point, what has led to this work and the bill that we will leave on Tuesday, is precisely that more will have influence over Swedish film, those who actually make films, those who produce, those who write scripts, those who make makeup. Instead, until now, those who have decided on Swedish films have been the ones who have made a few hundred million in profits in recent years, while others have had to work extra in home care to produce their films. Now we're finally doing this. You had the power and the Ministry of Culture for eight years. And what did you do? Not much, though you had the chance. Now that we're finally doing something, it's whining. Then one comes and says: But oh why do you change this and what will happen now? You know, Erik Andersson, we also invest in culture throughout the country. We're betting on the cinemas. I look forward to future interpellations when you see the result. Then we will see how much more culture this government is investing in, in which we want to invest. We want to invest in people taking part in culture, whether they have money left in their wallet or not.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-319	Mr. Old President! I was a little worried here that something would explode...
i-06de67a8834ecaf0-0	And I haven't even started...) I wonder who has the floor. We have a certain order in this House, Mr. Old President. Thank you for the clarifications. On the one hand, I would like to comment and, on the other, ask the Minister for Culture to answer a few questions. I asked the question of overall responsibility, about what additional funding opportunities for Swedish film the Minister for Culture sees. But I didn't get an answer. I heard a lot of words from the Minister for Culture, but I did not hear any other proposals for funding Swedish film than increased biomems from 6 to 25 percent. It's a murder squad for Sweden's cinemas. Yes, we've all heard the distress calls of the film industry. That is why I ask the Minister for Culture what else can be done. Personally, I have been to the Ministry of Culture and met the Minister and her employees, but there has been no desire to discuss it. The Minister for Culture may be willing to discuss it, that and that, but nothing but what has come up. I find it a bit sad when the final words in the reply of the Minister for Culture were so false, that she is of course interested. But it's not like that. I believe that things can be changed, and I believe that the Minister for Culture wants well. I ask again: how can we create an even more stable basis than the proposals that the government has presented so far? We have not yet seen a film bill. There are many of us waiting. The reactions that have been made so far are not very pleasing to either the Minister for Culture or the Government. One wonders: What is this? In addition to the increase in cinema VAT, it is an addition to the already thick Swedish Film Institute. When will there be a proposal to review the role of the Film Institute, now that the film agreement will no longer exist? The Minister for Culture knows so well that the Swedish Film Institute was created to administer the film agreement. Now that there is no film agreement, what will the Swedish Film Institute look like? The only proposal – but we do not know that yet because there is no proposal to take a position on – as the Minister for Culture has put forward is that we should build on yet another level at the Swedish Film Institute. Is that broadening the influence? Isn't it to recreate and make a much stronger, rigid, bureaucratic Swedish film institute? Is this what Swedish film needs, an even more rigid film institute than what we already have? I really want to give the Minister of Culture an opportunity to give a reply before the bill comes. What other forms of funding are the Minister for Culture and the Government prepared – it is not just the Minister for Culture, but the whole government – to give to Swedish film in order to get a vibrant industry?
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-328	Mr. Old President! I feel that the Minister for Culture thinks this is a sensitive issue given her reaction to what I said. What I meant was that I'm starting from the facts. In Spain cinemas have been closed down. The facts are also that there have been free visits to state museums in Stockholm. The cinemas around the country are not allowed to take part in the cinema fee. They don't even get paid for increased costs. In addition, the Minister for Culture should have said that there is no correlation between ticket prices and reduced number of cinema visitors. That's where I think the Minister for Culture is wrong. We are now seeing a development that enriches the culture in Stockholm's inner city through free admission to the state museums. Then the Minister of Culture means she's fighting for the poor. Those who will go free of charge at state museums are largely tourists and Östermalms people who already today take part in the culture because they have been dedicated to culture for a long time. You can't say you get more culture just because it's free. It is about education and entry into the cultural world. Otherwise, it does not matter if it costs SEK 0 or SEK 100 to visit a museum. You already save the saved, and often high-income people go to museums, but you want to reward the poor to go there. That's not how it works. There are many other factors that play a role if you choose to visit a museum or not. This policy means that you invest in Stockholm's inner city, but you don't care about the countryside. Rural areas will experience a cultural death in view of the increase in VAT, and this is only part of it.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-333	Mr. Old President! On 1 February, the free entry reform began to apply. Of course, I have closely followed developments. This is not the first time that a free-entry reform has been carried out in Sweden. It was over a period of about ten years ago. You know, what we can already see is that it is also unaccustomed museum visitors who go to the museums. In other words, it is not only Östermalmstanter – or southern suburbans – that I take part in the offer. This is because the museum management and the museum staff are so incredibly aware of and take their responsibility so seriously to make our common treasures available to more people. But it is about several tools, not just that it is free, of course not. To be appealing, to make available, to lower the thresholds – it's about so much more. What makes you feel comfortable going into a museum or not? What different languages are spoken? What exhibitions do you have? How do you work with the exhibitions? This is a development that is taking place all over Europe. The example mentioned by Erik Andersson from Spain probably used too few tools. You have to use a lot more. This challenge meets this government and this Minister for Culture and Democracy. I'm not making it easy for myself. I understand how complex it is to make culture accessible, how complex it is to really ensure that every child, no matter what their parents earn and where they live in the country, will have access to culture and be able to grow as a human being. This requires a policy that does not just focus on capital, which not only focuses on a majority population that can manage anyway. Then it's important to pursue a policy that believes that every person has something that can become something, whether you're a blackhead kid growing up in the middle of the forest in Småland with parents who are hippies or whatever they might be, as it was for me. It can be about believing that there will be a book bus to your own village as well, and for me it was something that changed my whole life. Such a policy is needed, and such a policy costs money. Such a policy requires an insight into the need to invest in our country, Sweden. Then it is not possible to have a policy of tax cuts at all costs, but to understand that it costs money to build a country, to build communities, to build up the divides that are now a fact and which make it grow up hundreds, thousands of young people who think they can't. Then more culture is needed for more people. Then we need a film policy. Then we also need a policy that dares to stand by what has been said. Now, Cecilia Magnusson, I'll tell you exactly what I said at the hearing. You're talking about things I haven't said. I've never questioned the increase in VAT. I have been quite clear from the outset that the increase in VAT is a way for us to finance the new reform policy. I'm never gonna walk away from that. Above all, Magdalena Andersson, the Swedish Minister for Finance, will not do so. This is part of the policy we are putting forward. That is an increase from 16 to 25 %. I would also like to emphasise what I said yesterday at the press conference. We have looked at if there is any correlation over time in Sweden. Listen, here's the thing – listen and be amazed: Ticket prices have been rising steadily and slowly but surely for long periods of time. Although we have not changed VAT, they have been increased anyway. Why? Because those who have cinemas don't do charity. It's a commercial business. They've raised prices, but people have gone to the movies anyway. There is no reason to be concerned that there would be a disaster in terms of the number of visitors to the cinema precisely because they may now need to raise the price by SEK 5. The strongest driving factor behind whether people go to the movies or not is whether there is a good movie. And what this government and I are now doing as Minister of Culture and Democracy is putting a record in order for it to be produced even better and more good Swedish film.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-342	Mr. Old President! The Parliament is not a playhouse but a place for important talks between members, ministers and other people. If I am not mistaken, our Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, will characterize himself as the leader of a cooperative government. Unfortunately, there has been no more than talk of it. A good example of this is the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture. She says she wants to interact with others, but it's just words. It's not a workshop at all. It was interesting to hear the Minister of Culture's outcome on tax policy. I don't think she's done her homework. During the time of the alliance government, we significantly reduced taxes on low and middle wage earners. However, the government received far more tax revenue than it received with higher taxes. That's how it works. And one more thing, Minister of Culture! If people get more money in their wallets and do not have to put it as tax money, they consume more culture. That's why it's a win-win system. There is a risk with regard to VAT. The increase in VAT lays a solid foundation, says the Minister for Culture. What if people stop going to the movies? Then there will be no VAT money, and then it is not a stable basis. What if, Minister of Culture? We need more and broader forms of funding for Swedish film before it is too late, Mr. Age President.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-346	Mr. Old President! Swedish film and the number of people who go to cinema in Sweden are absolutely dependent on that there are good conditions to produce film. We Swedes love Swedish film. We like to have film experiences where our language is spoken and where you reflect on our reality and what we feel close to. That's why we need to invest in the basic conditions for the Swedish film: that you can produce, that you have time to write and that all the different parts that exist in the film industry have influence over the film. Film policy, as it will be until 31 December 2016, has been governed by interests other than those that have the best possible conditions for Swedish film. That's what we're breaking. There have been a small number of players around the table, and the number has also slowly but surely become smaller, as the contractual partners have dropped out because they have understood what I also feel: that there is a lack of funding and that there is a lack of influence from the industry. The change we are making now is painful, I understand. The Swedish film agreement, which will apply until 31 December 2016, served Sweden and the film at first. But in recent years it has done the opposite. There have been short contracts and few actors. Now there will be a longer period of time with great responsibility, and we can work together. I would like to emphasise this with synergy. I would like to cooperate, but of course not at any price. I do not cooperate by at the same time failing to take overall responsibility as Minister of Culture and Democracy, which is about promoting free art and ensuring that art and culture reach more people all over the country, no matter what they earn and where they live. I am very pleased with the debate on the film. I hope that the debate will continue, because one of the objectives is that film should become part of cultural policy. It has not been a subject for Parliament. They have sat around that small table with commercial actors and decided how film policy will develop. Now we have to debate this every year and every day. Finally, we get to call the cards when it comes to what we want with the Swedish film. Me and the government want the Swedish film well.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-351	Mr. Old President! Lotta Olsson has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative for a return to the queue billion. Follow-up on accessibility in healthcare has shown that waiting times were reduced even before queue billions were introduced. However, the positive effect that could then be seen during the first time of the queue billions flattened after 2010, and in the last year of the queue billion, waiting times even deteriorated in some areas. Accessibility to health care continues to be a challenge. To meet this challenge, the Government considers that the underlying causes of accessibility problems must be addressed. One of the most pressing reasons for the current situation is the supply of skills. The lack of staff and the inefficient use of employees' time leads to a reduction in the capacity of care. This, in turn, makes accessibility less accessible. The government has therefore replaced the queue billion with a professional billion. A prerequisite for achieving real improvement in accessibility is tackling the basic problem of health care. On the other hand, the embodiment attacked the symptoms of the problems, i.e. the queues, rather than their causes. The aim of the professional billion is to strengthen the conditions for good, equal and efficient healthcare by improving the conditions for healthcare employees to increase the proportion of time for patient-related work and strengthen county councils' planning of their skills provision. Skills provision includes health care's ability to attract, recruit, develop and retain employees and skills, but can also be seen from a broader perspective. Questions about how time and resources can be released by using healthcare employees in the best possible way and better administrative support and tools are fundamental to the positive development of healthcare. By strengthening all these aspects of the supply of skills, the capacity of care is increasing and thus accessibility can also be improved. In addition to professional billions, the government will contribute SEK 1 billion in 2016 and thereafter SEK 500 million per year to the county councils. These resources strengthen the county councils' ability to meet challenges such as skills provision and to make healthcare more accessible and equal. In order to get a better picture of the availability of healthcare, there is a need to improve its follow-up. As a result, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with developing the national monitoring of healthcare accessibility. The assignment includes making annual measurements of waiting times in healthcare and analysing the causes and consequences of differences in accessibility. In addition, Sweden's municipalities and county councils (SKL) have received funds to coordinate the monitoring and development of healthcare accessibility. The actions will focus in particular on developing the follow-up of availability in cancer care and primary care. The purpose of the follow-up is to provide the county councils with input for operational development and comparisons, thereby enabling development and improvement of healthcare accessibility. Monitoring of the availability of cancer care in recent years has shown that waiting times are long and that regional differences are large. The Government will therefore have a total of SEK 500 million per year in 2015– 2018 to create a more equal and accessible cancer care. The aim of the initiative is to improve accessibility in cancer care by shortening waiting times and reducing regional disparities. The most important measure to achieve this is the introduction of a common national system of standardised health care processes. The Government believes that it is important to design the initiative so that experience, conclusions and results can, as far as possible, be useful also in other areas of healthcare.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-360	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer. The answer is all-encompassing and shows the different views we have on when organizations are unable to deliver what is the mission. People are actually often very satisfied with the care when they arrive, but the waiting time is the problem. We see huge regional differences. From the county I come, Örebro County, for example, the waiting times increase very much. That's why the queue billion has been good. It's given a carrot to those who can handle the mission. It is not that nothing happens when people wait. Very dangerous things can happen when they're in line. It's not something you can just look at as: We'll take it a little later. If you have a carrot-thinking and goal-direct it so that you should work with shortening care periods, it is a completely different approach than if you distribute the money to all county councils. They will already today work with organizational development, to retain competent staff, that is to say, to ensure that competent staff develop and remain. They will make sure to develop the highly specialized care we have in the country. That's often where the lines are. A general contribution to everyone regardless of whether they pass their mission or not becomes a completely different matter than if the government clearly says: You who pass the mission should be motivated, and the rest of you must do better. However, the annual follow-up that the government is now so clearly pressing on is going to be very important. It should be visible that a county council can or cannot fulfil its mission. It is also something that citizens should have the opportunity to know. If there is not the care I need in the county council, I will be able to take me somewhere else to get my care on time. An increased awareness and an increased transparency is very important. I would like to ask the Minister a question. If it is now the case that you give general grants, why should you do so instead of the county councils themselves increasing their tax revenue? In that case, there is no intention to raise skills in the profession. It's something that's part of the mission. It is not something specific that the government should have to rule. Instead, the government should be clear that some county councils are failing their mission. How do they intend to accomplish the mission? The instrument of follow-up will make it much clearer to look at it. The same is true of regional disparities. If it is the case that there is a shortage of staff and there is no ability to retain staff, what is the difference between the regions that makes it look so different anyway? It's not just that it's different nice to live in different parts of the country. What has been done in some county councils that have not been done in others to keep their staff? There's a lot more to be desired there.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-369	Mr. Old President! Lotta Olsson points out that we have different views on this issue. That, of course, is true. Unlike Lotta Olsson, I would like to use the tax money for measures that actually have an effect on, in this case, accessibility. Instead, Lotta Olsson wants to maintain a model that obviously has not had the effect of increasing accessibility. It has been severely criticized by the SKL, among other things, but also the Medical Association. Not least the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out that this form of performance-based remuneration risks crowding out other important activities and shifting focus instead of solving the basic problem. As I have said in my interpellation response, I want to solve what is actually the basic problem in Swedish health care. It is not possible to get around that the supply of skills is absolutely central. Sometimes, as Lotta Olsson points out, there is a pure shortage of different categories of staff. We know, among other things, that there is a shortage of specialist nurses. We know that there is a shortage of certain medical categories, and there is a shortage of some other professions. But many times it is about how we make the best use of our common resources. We have never had as many nurses as we have in Sweden today. We have four times as many doctors as we had in the '70s. Yet we can see that when we compare ourselves with other comparable countries, the time they devote to patient contact is considerably lower in Sweden than in the other countries. Why is this? I think it's a whole series of circumstances. One of the most important is that we have neglected digital development in health care. We have, despite the fact that perhaps the most amazing technological achievements are in the healthcare sector in the form of operating robots, visualisation tables and gamma knives at the same time, a situation where the basic IT systems cannot talk to each other. If a patient is to change caregivers, which is becoming more common, the journal should be printed and faxed and then scanned and digitised. Everyone realizes that it takes a lot of time and effort. In addition, it takes an enormous amount of time and effort from doctors and nurses, for at the same time the trend has been towards fewer and fewer medical secretaries and other administrative staff. That is what is at the root of the problem of reduced accessibility, and that is what we are trying to tackle with professional billions. But we also see that during the bourgeois years the general funds of the state to municipalities and county councils have decreased in comparison with what needs have increased and what population development has looked like. This needs to be corrected, because the state, as no other actor in Swedish society, has both the responsibility and the opportunity to ensure that we have justice throughout the country, that there are conditions for good health care also in counties and regions that may have been affected by population migration and population decline, and that there is an opportunity to make investments also in those parts of the country that are not close to a large growth region. We in this government have tried to take this role seriously through the increased general efforts. My question back to Lotta Olsson is: Why do the Moderates say no to the general increase in tax revenues for county councils? Why adhere to a model that obviously does not work?
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-378	Mr. Old President! This clearly shows the different views we have. The Minister says tax money should be spent on efficiency. What is it that makes that in Halland you hardly have any waiting times at all while in my county, Örebro County, you have really long waiting times? Halland has been ruled by Moderates for almost a hundred years, and my county has been ruled by Social Democrats for a hundred years. It is not Norrland and southern Sweden. My county is a prosperous county in the middle of the country and should not look like this. It sounds very good when you talk about the northern part of the country having to get resources for health care and that there are much more resources in the south. It's true, but this isn't going to happen. What you will actually do is level out and give money whether a county council succeeds in its mission or not. When it comes to the criticism from SKL, there needs to be a lot of work on both digitalisation and solving the basic problems. But we must also put pressure on our county councils to tackle the basic problems. They must have plans for how to remove the care queues and be able to show an action plan. It is the Minister's job to demand action plans so that we do not have these waiting times. It can always be a deterrent, but if in the future you have an instrument to do much more closely follow-up, it should be able to counteract taking resources from something that gives points to something that does not score and thus moves the problem. Digital development is a dilemma. There are a huge number of systems in the country, and the question is whether one does not need to look at whether one could coordinate them in any way. There are only gains to be made in this way. Rationalization is exactly what you need to do. As I see it, it is precisely the goal-driven approach that brings out the creativity to work with rationalizations. Say that there is a business where there is just as much money even if you have huge queues and one where it is actually rewarded in the system that you have good accessibility, good quality and all other important parameters for healthcare. The latter is a behavior that we all want, even if we have different toolboxes to get there, and then the money must land where rationality is best and not just become some sort of raised county tax. Otherwise, taxes could actually be increased in general. Look at how the different counties actually deliver and consider what is the big difference! Is it to some extent an attitude issue to tolerate or not tolerate queue periods? Are citizens informed that they can move if there is a queue? In that case, the county councils that do not deliver will have to reconsider – otherwise the patients will go somewhere else. That's how you work in other industries. Healthcare has a huge amount of highly skilled staff who need more goal control and freer rein in order to deliver much better. You can do that if the politics are not in and in detail controlling and poking too much.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-388	Mr. Old President! I want to catch up with what Lotta Olsson ended up doing. Politics should not be in and in detail governed, but politics should put its trust in the skills and experience of the professions. That is exactly what we in the government are doing with the efforts and agreements that we have made over the past 12 – 18 months. Performance-based compensations, such as queue billions, are an example of – where you can talk about controlling the business in detail! I think it is important to point out to the House that the common alliance policy that existed in this area before the elections seems to be completely relaxed now afterwards. There are two parties in the current Alliance that hold on to the queue billions in some form even though they have also seen its flaws and want to modify it. It's the KD and the Center Party. The Liberals do not want any cue billions at all. They have seen that performance-based remuneration, as this is, does not advance. Debates I have had with liberal representatives have been more in favour of this type of agreement and joint efforts. The Moderates – which Lotta Olsson represents and which she might think are the ones who are most eager to hold on to the old queue billion – retain that the queue billion should be performance-based but at the same time have cut it down by 300 million to little 700 million SEK. The question is why you think that you should stick to a method, performance base, which does not work at the same time as – although Lotta Olsson speaks hotly to make greater efforts to increase accessibility – you cut down the money that goes to the county councils to work on this issue. That is a question I have for Lotta Olsson. Furthermore, Lotta Olsson requires me to require the county councils to send in action plans. We require a great many action plans from the county councils. We have a wide range of agreements with SKL on measures and efforts to do everything from improving care for people suffering from chronic diseases to increasing accessibility. However, we have chosen to move away from a model of performance-based remuneration that obviously has not worked and which clearly leads to displacement effects and entails the risk of resources being misplaced. Instead we have chosen to enter into agreements where we clearly point out that here the county councils and the state have a joint responsibility to solve the problems and challenges that we have on the table. I think that the cancer agreement is an excellent one. It's not performance-based. It is based on the existence of regional structures and strong regional ownership. At the same time, the state has gone in with money, knowledge and commitment in this area. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the previous alliance government, which initiated the work on the cancer strategy – something that we naturally pursue and work to develop. This is an example of how you can work smarter without staring blindly at performance-based remuneration and methods from the private business community. That is what this is about, and that is the difference in approach between me and Lotta Olsson. I do not believe that healthcare, which is a key part of the Swedish model, can directly draw all the methods from the private business community. This is a sector where the governing body should not be profit-making but the interest in caring for the welfare of individual patients.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-399	Mr. Old President! As the Minister pointed out, it is about caring for patients and our tax money goes where they are going, so that waiting times are short whether you live in Örebro County – where the queues today are long – or in Halland. It is the same country, and the tax rates are almost the same. It must be a difference when in a moderate-controlled county council you have a working method that works and shorter waiting times while in a social-democratic-controlled county council you have long queue times. The Minister should go home to the House and consider that it looks so different. Then you might think that 700 million is a small amount of money. But at the same time, you beat your chest for spending 500 million in professional money. I think we should respect the fact that 700 million is a lot of money, and that is what we want to invest in target management towards shortening waiting times. It pays to shorten waiting times. We know that much is administered during waiting periods, and it happens that patients get complications that both cost pain and require increased measures, but they can also lead to a completely different outcome of the care. So waiting times are dangerous things. This must not be about ideologies, but about how best to achieve results. I do not think you need to go to business, if the Minister thinks it is like looking at a ghost. Instead you can compare Hallands and Örebro län. The differences are large regardless of whether the care is provided by public or private authorities. Halland has public health care just like everyone else, and there is absolutely no one who is in favour of us financing health care in a different way.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-403	Mr. Old President! I shall begin by saying that I am also deeply impressed by Halland and the efforts made there in the health care sector. I have visited that county council several times, and I know that you work very closely across the block to get continuity and foresight. If you are in Lotta Olsson's clothes, you should definitely highlight the good examples from Halland, but you should be careful not to overwhelm that it is moderate government. We are here in Stockholm in a county council that has been governed by the Moderates for ten years, and here we cannot say that we have succeeded very well with either accessibility or some other things in the healthcare sector. Rather, it is an example of zeal and dogmatism in privatising and introducing different types of healthcare choice systems in absurdity breaking down well-functioning care chains, and there is a risk of a situation in which the availability and coordination of individual patients are precisely lacking. A year ago we were able to read about an elderly man who had been spinning around in different actors in the healthcare system between 70 and 80 times in a year. We'll be careful not to overwhelm the gears. However, we should note that we have major challenges in the area of health care. It will require a great deal of ingenuity. This will require us to work in a completely new way to bring about a cultural change. This cultural change will not be free of charge. It will require common resources in the form of tax money. I belong to a government that is prepared to invest that tax money. We invest almost 2 billion more than the Moderates do in their draft budget to improve accessibility in Swedish healthcare.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-406	Mr. Old President! Karin Rågsjö has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that all asylum seekers, as a self-evident right, are offered health examinations and what measures I intend to take to ensure that refugees receive adequate health protection. An important task for the government is to make it easier for authorities, county councils, health care providers and their employees to handle the situation, both in the short and long term. Several assignments have been given to our authorities to support healthcare in providing care to asylum seekers and new arrivals. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with carrying out an in-depth analysis of the possibilities and challenges of health care including dental care for asylum seekers and new arrivals. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare will also carry out a survey of how the support for languages other than Swedish looks like in healthcare and dental care in order to make it easier for asylum seekers and newcomers to communicate with healthcare. As Karin Rågsjö writes in her interpellation, all asylum seekers must be offered a health survey. The Health Survey aims, among other things, at early detection of acute diseases, so as not to endanger the individual's health, and at detecting the need for disease protection measures. Health is an important prerequisite for a successful establishment and integration process. It is therefore important that health surveillance should give early attention to possible health problems. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Public Health Agency have been tasked with supporting county councils in their efforts to offer health surveys to asylum seekers. The mandate includes reviewing the possibilities to simplify and streamline the way in which health surveillance should be carried out. In October 2015, the Government decided to allocate funds to the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils for a preliminary study on meeting the ill health of new arrivals and asylum seekers. The preliminary study aims, among other things, to gather knowledge and good examples of how county councils work with health surveys. In order to facilitate contact between asylum seekers and health care, county councils have asked for access to, among other things, the mobile number of asylum seekers. On 28 January 2016, the Government decided to amend the Regulation on health care for asylum seekers and others, which requires the Finnish Immigration Service to provide information on the country of residence, telephone number and e-mail address to the county councils. The amendment entered into force on 1 March this year. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency, in consultation with the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Statistical Office and the Swedish National School Administration, has been tasked with investigating the conditions for allowing all asylum seekers in Sweden to obtain a coordination number and proposing how such a procedure should be designed. Asylum-seeking children should be vaccinated in accordance with the national vaccination programme up to the age of 18 years. The Public Health Authority has been tasked with identifying and analysing the need for vaccinations in asylum seekers and, if necessary, developing a basis with proposals for measures to facilitate the provision of vaccinations to asylum seekers in the healthcare sector, including the paediatric and pupil health services, in accordance with applicable vaccination programmes. In addition to these assignments, the government has paid out just under SEK 1.5 billion as a one-off payment to the county councils to deal with the current refugee situation. The funds are also intended to cover costs expected to arise in 2016. This takes place in addition to the Government's investment in health care, which aims to strengthen the area, including 1 extra billion in 2016. I would like to conclude by saying that the government has and will continue to have a close dialogue with the county councils, the relevant authorities and the SKL in the further work.
i-VTibaxRsWVT7b4Jf6AqKJH	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The government has had to take over a rather dysfunctional system after the previous alliance government. Unfortunately, the Alliance parties have now forgotten that they themselves did not do much on this issue. It's been pretty bad for a long time. Politics, I think, should also contain a dose of self-examination. It's never wrong. The Swedish democrats have also made statements on this and mythized that refugees do not want health surveys. After all, health surveys are a right, and what we are talking about now is that you cannot, not that you do not want. I would like to say that straight away, as an introduction to the debate or discussion that the Government and I are about to have. Health surveys are a self-evident public service. We want less bureaucracy and more action. We still think it's missing. This is the moment we have the chance to find good models for health examinations. It's a must. As I said, you've been working on this for a very long time in different ways. There have been several years of attempts and projects to reach a reasonably acceptable level of health surveillance. Statistics from Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, SKL, show that about half of all asylum seekers underwent a health survey in 2014. Those are bad numbers, you might say. Unfortunately, the figures have fallen between 2012 and 2014, from 46% to 44%. So it's going backwards. It was during the time of the alliance government, I want to say, so it's not a new question where we say: Wow, now we're going to fix this, and you haven't done anything. In January 2012, the Swedish Public Health Agency or then the Swedish Institute for Disease Control had a major project in progress to find different ways in terms of health surveys. Three years later it is clear that the number of health examinations has not increased despite the great effort, which was very good. There are many ideas, but they have not been implemented in the county councils. I think that is a tendency we can see in Sweden. We've got a lot of projects going on that are like sparklers. They burn very short time, quite simply. We would like to move from words to deeds. The authorities are on their way. We have very good authorities in Sweden. They've taken this ball. But then getting county councils to do something is a bit more problematic, it seems. Nor can we have a tombola in Sweden. One might say that we have it in the area of health care. It depends on where you live whether you are going to get a health check or not. We therefore hope that the county councils will be in a hurry. All the people who have fled to Sweden under indescribably difficult conditions are really in need of a health survey. This applies not only to physical health but also to mental health. Many are of course very traumatized by events in their home country but also by events on their way to Sweden. Trauma processing is therefore a big deal on this issue. Children's rights must be safeguarded. Vaccination rates in the countries from which people come are considerably lower than in Sweden. It is extremely important that children enter the vaccination programme quite soon. We think that there is no form of concreteisation and hope that the county councils will get some momentum. The system we have had under the previous government has simply not worked. You have to get the figures up significantly from the 46 or 50 percent to preferably 100– that would be good.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-423	Mr. Old President! I would like to start by thanking Karin Rågsjö for putting this interpellation. This is an extremely important issue. I have often been frustrated that when the question of health examinations is asked, it is just as Karin Rågsjö says. It has been set from a perspective where it wishes to suspect both asylum seekers and the intentions of these kinds of health surveys. I am pleased that we can discuss what actually matters: how we get up the percentage of health examinations and can offer everyone a study that can facilitate not only physical health but also mental health. I would like to point out to Karin Rågsjö that this has been a neglected area for many years. As in other areas of society, which I deeply regret, I think one reason has been that these are vulnerable groups that often find it difficult to make their voice heard. We have also seen it in the field of social services, for example. As a representative of a government which sees as one of its most important tasks the defence of the Swedish model, I think that we must also have a policy in this area that protects those who cannot speak for themselves. We must also look after their best interests. However, it is important to point out that what we have seen in recent months and in the last year is a huge increase in the number of asylum seekers. It has put our systems, not least health care, in the face of major challenges. It has also been clear that we have needed to develop the systems and find new creative ways of carrying out, not least, these health surveys. It is true that the proportion has not increased as it should have, but the number of surveys has increased enormously over this period of time. I still think you should see that. Sometimes it is also important to see the number and not just talk about shares, because it is a fantastic effort that the profession has done, not least in the field of asylum health, when it has been possible to increase the number of investigations in this way. I can also note that, in parallel with the agency assignments that are under way, there is a huge activity in the county councils, where one tries to see how one can streamline one's operations and get better speed up health surveys. More and more county councils have started with mobile teams. Instead of allowing asylum seekers to go, as in my own county of Västmanland, five hours round trip by public transport to undergo a quarter or half an hour's medical examination, one is now going to accommodation or is at least closer geographically to doing so. It is a huge increase in quality both for the care and for the individual. I can also say that the places where health examinations seem to work best and where the volumes are raised quite quickly are places where it is a coherent care. There, care has not been fragmented into different health centres, but has a clear asylum health system that has been able to work up the procedures. This points to another important challenge: to get away from the thinking that has existed under bourgeois rule, where one has wanted to fragment care, break it up and sell it out to private alternatives. Instead, we need to see how we can create a healthcare system in which we can have cohesion, in which we can ensure that we can rely on the professions and their skills and experience and where we can also govern according to other philosophies than the current New Public Management theory.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-431	Mr. Old President! We are so in agreement that it is worrying about some things here, Gabriel Wikström. We have, as I said before, authorities in Sweden who have really taken this ball and are doing a super job. It's about the National Board of Health and Public Health and so on. You should know that. The problem is: How should the good ideas be implemented? We think that is a problem. We have maternity care centres, child care centres and a fantastic network. But now we must also become the world's best at finding effective methods for reaching new arrivals in Sweden. It is the Finnish Immigration Service's responsibility to ensure that the county councils receive information from the Finnish Immigration Service. There have been provisions on this from 1 March this year. We're very happy about that. Then maybe it'll be a little rapper. But one can think about what it would be like if you and I, Minister, were to land in some other country where we do not know the language. It's a huge linguistic barrier. You have to work a lot with communication. It is also about guiding oneself in the Swedish healthcare system. It can be difficult for anyone, especially in places where care has been fragmented, just as you mention, Gabriel Wikström. This is something you have to land in, too. I thought I'd take this opportunity to give some tips from the Left Party. The Left Party is a very creative party – you may know that. How to reach asylum seekers? Information films can be produced in other languages. One can imagine that those films are shown on the accommodations that exist. There are a lot of accommodations where the owners cash in quite a lot of money. Then perhaps it should be part of the mission that they also make a minimal bet. It would mean a lot. Just as you mention, it is a matter of special training several health centres in each county. There are many good embryos of things that work. It's just a matter of somehow getting it into the whole of Sweden. To specialise in several health centres we believe very much in. Then we are talking about ambulatory activities that are specific to children, children under the age of six. Getting them into the Swedish vaccination programme is extremely important. Otherwise they will get sick in measles, pertussis and you name it. It's very unnecessary. There could be some kind of rights package in different languages, so that people understand what they can get from healthcare. Maybe that'd be good. When it comes to trauma, one can imagine that we have light-kBT online for those who don't feel too sick. There are a thousand things you could do. You could have the Red Cross train those who attend psychology and social education to work precisely with trauma. There is a need for action aimed at women. Women may be even more traumatized by war than men are. It could be some kind of women's package. There's a lot. It's supposed to be low thresholds and inviting. That's where we haven't come yet. There is sometimes a need for some relaxation of bureaucratic systems, and the good ideas that exist need to be disseminated. In some county councils you work great while in some county councils you may not have the transparency that you would need. In Sweden we have even a very bureaucratised system, and then, without bypassing the systems too much, we need to loosen up a little when it comes to certain issues.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-442	Mr. Old President! I welcome all the tips and good ideas that are available in this area. I believe, like Karin Rågsjö, that we have a system that works very well in many respects. But we also have a tendency to organize ourselves in drainpipes and sometimes be a little slow at the start. I believe that in the situation that we have found ourselves in, and are still in, the key to bringing about change and being able to work in new ways of being active and also as national health politicians to show commitment and practice some form of laying on hands. I think that we are doing this, for example through the missions given to the authorities, most of which should be reported at the end of April. This gives us a whole new knowledge of what it actually looks like and what more you can do to move forward. We also get it thanks to the very good and close contact that not least the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has directly with the relevant actors and also through its own healthcare dialogues that I have annually with all county councils. I'm just out on a tour now to be able to meet and, among other things, talk about this kind of question. So we have a huge activity, and it is also important to see that we have a huge development in terms of the number of visits and hopefully soon also the proportion of health examinations that are taking place. It is also important to point out in this context, not least because Karin Rågsjö is just addressing children and perhaps particularly vulnerable women, that there is no indication that the principle of care should have been abandoned as needed. Although it has been a strained situation and it has not been possible to offer health examinations as quickly as it has wanted, it has nevertheless given priority to children and a number of other groups that have been important in cases where it is known that these are at risk groups or people in particular need of a health survey. It also works very actively in the health care sector in the lack that exists in educated interpreters, as many other activities also require interpreting services, exploiting the diversity that exists in healthcare. We already have today, and have had for a very many years, in the fantastic staff in Swedish health care a large number of people who have their roots in other countries and thus also master a number of the languages that are now needed to meet asylum seekers. These are being put to work. They may contribute not only as a doctor or nurse but also as a linguist. At the same time, we have a national work in progress to see what we can do to improve the interpreting service. So I do not want Karin Rågsjö anywhere to doubt that we have a full focus on the issue, and we are doing everything in our power to increase the proportion of health examinations so that everyone has their rights met.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-449	Mr. Old President! Minister! It is also the case that the flow of refugees that we have had in Sweden has made it a huge speed. More has happened in quite a short time than happened during the eight years with the alliance-led government, which nevertheless saw that the figures were 40%, with a much lower number of refugees. I'd like to say that one more time. Nor is this issue ever used in the way that, for example, the Swedish Democrats do when they mean asylum seekers do not want health surveys. This is a public service that they should be offered. There is a huge difference between semantics, I think, and how it is run from different parties. One issue that has been highlighted is the number of cases of tuberculosis in Sweden that have increased slightly since 2003. Then you should know that in Sweden we generally have very few cases and incidences of TB. For 2015, there were 8.5 cases per 100,000 inhabitants per year. It is about people who have come to Sweden, and it takes about five years to discover that they have unfortunately got this disease that is quite common both in Europe and in the rest of the world. We in Sweden have come a long way, but this is because we have actively worked with health reforms for the entire population, something that we may not have done in all countries. Nevertheless, I would like to conclude by saying that efforts are needed and these need to be implemented. It must also exist throughout Sweden, and there is a need to review the responsibilities of people operating refugee facilities to disseminate information. It is important that you can get it done. However, the Swedish National Manual in Children's Health Care says this: a majority of refugees would like to undergo a health examination, but several are never reached by an offer. So there is a great deal we can do. A great deal is already being done, but the good ideas that have emerged also need to be implemented, and we need to remove the worst bureaucracy.
i-9972eb8c04f77a06-454	Mr. Old President! Regarding the last part of Karin Rågsjö's speech, that it is important to remove bureaucracy and that it is important to ensure that everyone is reached by an offer to undergo a health survey, I hope that by now we can give out contact information from the Migration Agency to the health service but also later with the introduction of coordination numbers can remove many of the obstacles that have been present to just making an offer and to seek out people who need a health survey. We should also remember that now we are talking about the first health examination that you have the right to come up with. However, one problem in this context has also been that when you have gone through a health survey and it may have been discovered that action needs to be taken and that there are problems that the healthcare system needs to help with, there has been no contact details. The asylum seeker may have moved to another home, and the health care system has not been in contact to be able to follow up on this person. That is also something that we can remedy by means of the efforts that the government has made in this area, and that is why I think we are seeing a development ahead of us where we will now be able to graze at a rapid pace the queue that exists for the health survey. A large proportion of those who have not been reached by an offer of a health examination will be reached and, thanks to the emergency situation that has taken place in the autumn, new methods have been developed to speed up the delivery of health examinations but also to improve the effectiveness of health surveillance itself. I would like to say once again that I am very pleased that Karin Rågsjö raises this important subject, not least because I had the chance to tell you all the amazing things that are going on.
