i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-3	Mr President, I would like to The debate we have today is long awaited, because it means that we are taking a decision this afternoon on something that many have been waiting for a very long time, namely improved opportunities for over-indebted people to restart. We are now improving the possibilities for debt restructuring. Views of consumption and credit have changed over the years, and today the Swedes are borrowing more and more. Getting into the debt trap and, at worst, over-indebtedness is devastating for the individual, but it also costs a lot of money for society. Swedish households are highly indebted, both from a historical and an international perspective. The credit society is constantly evolving. Credits increase the possibilities for households to plan their finances but also risk contributing to over-indebtedness. In the investigation initiated by the Alliance government over-indebtedness in the credit community? a series of suggestions were made on how people locked in over-indebtedness can be helped to live a life of freedom from debt. According to the report, more than 95 000 people have been in debt with the bailiff since 1992 or before, and 190 000 have been in debt since 2002 or before, i.e. for 15 years. Eternity debtors are the group in society that suffers the most from the decades they have lived under the threat of the recovery of each crown they have earned beyond the minimum of existence. The debtors and their relatives live their lives cut off year after year and often lack the energy and ability to carry out the total debt adjustment that would be most helpful to them. The result is often that they find themselves in an increasingly impossible situation, with less and less hope of ever getting out of their position. In order to limit the most vulnerable group and increase the possibility of debt-free in the long term, improved opportunities for over-indebted people to have debt restructuring are needed. These are not easy questions, but when people's tragic fate is sold from creditor to creditor so that the debtors in the end hardly know who they owe money, then politics must do something. Children of parents with paychecks are particularly vulnerable. The wage distribution corresponds to a smaller wallet than subsistence support. However, although we consider the bill put forward by the government and which we are debating today to be good, both the Christian Democrats and several other parties believe that the proposal lacks the ambition of a general three-year debt restructuring payment plan that investigator Jan Ertsborn underlined in the report The Way back for over-indebted people. The proposal seeks to express flexibility and thus strive to shorten the payment plan in more cases than the five years currently in force. Instead, like referrals from the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority, we want to recommend a general three-year payment plan without payment-free months. With the proposal's ambition to start the debtor's payments already from the opening decision, the payment plan is significantly shortened. The Swedish Enforcement Authority's information that the processing period in March 2015 from the application to the initial decision amounted to six months and from the application to the final decision to ten months also indicates that the debt adjustment period would therefore fall towards two years. The value of being able to rehabilitate more quickly means that the journey to a new life will feel faster and, above all, be experienced more easily. That is why we stand by this and hope that the government will also listen to it. There are, as I said, several investigations in this area, and it is important that we continue to work on these issues, because, as I said earlier, the credit society is constantly evolving, and so do the political tools. Starting a business means leaving the security zone and exposing yourself and your environment to the risk of failure. This is something that certainly prevents many from realizing their business idea. It is therefore necessary in a society that affirms growth and job creation that there is a possibility of debt restructuring for entrepreneurs. The new investigation of the alliance government proposed a special form of debt restructuring to be granted to entrepreneurs affected by over-indebtedness. The proposal aims to improve the possibilities for serious entrepreneurs who go bankrupt or over-indebted to quickly tackle their debt burden and be able to restart or resume. It is therefore a good thing that we are now adopting a new law on debt restructuring for entrepreneurs who will give entrepreneurs a better chance of debt restructuring. It is about severely indebted entrepreneurs who have run their business in a fair and loyal manner. The reason is that we want to give more entrepreneurs a second chance and improve the conditions for running companies in Sweden. Sweden needs entrepreneurs who are prepared to realise business ideas and create values. If one of these job creators stumbles at some point, it is urgent that there be a way back to resume the creation of value that our country needs. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-16	Mr President, I would like to He who is in debt is not free. It is a quote from the Social Democratic Minister of Finance Ernst Wigforss, although it is often associated with Göran Persson. No matter who, it is an important quote to include in this debate. Debt restructuring is not new in Sweden. We have had a type of debt restructuring act since 1994. It was then associated with the fact that many were particularly hard hit by over-indebtedness after the severe economic crisis in the early 1990s. There is no precise definition of who is over-indebted, which naturally leads to different estimates of how many overindebted there are in society. According to a narrow definition, it is estimated to be 28 000 people. Others feel that there are far more. For example, as Mrs Szyber said, there are about 100 000 people who have been in the register of the Enforcement Authority for more than 20 years, so-called eternity elders. Then why do you end up in over-indebtedness? I've met several over-indebted people. I've been talking to budget and debt advisors, with the bailiff, and with scientists. We know that it is usually due to an external circumstance such as illness, unemployment and now even retirement. I think we can agree that one of the most common scenarios is divorce or separation. Mr President, I would like to I met Maria a while ago. She bought a house with her husband in the '90s. Not for as much money as houses may cost today, but say 1 million — an amount that she and her husband would have had the ability to pay back. A few years later, they separate. There'll be a crisis and a rush, and you'll have to sell the house at a loss. During the first years, Maria managed to keep her nose just above the surface of the water, but the money was not enough. She had to take extra jobs, but the money was still not enough, and eventually the first payment note fell in. It's the beginning of a situation that's impossible to get out of for Maria. The mountain of guilt is growing and growing. Many years go by before she is finally granted debt restructuring. In the meantime, the creditors have increased, and Maria is in very bad shape. We know that among over-indebted people there is an increased health risk, an increased risk of suicide and that many children feel ill. The social cost of over-indebtedness is high, but the main reason for this type of institution is concern for the debtors and a willingness to give a second chance. The main purpose of the Act was the rehabilitation of the over-indebted. It is also important to remember. There are too few people looking for debt restructuring. There are several reasons. Not least, it has been too complicated, and the proposal proposes new simplifications in the application process itself. There will be a partial reversal of the burden of proof. The debtor's accounting burden is eased slightly, and the creditor's liability for accounting for the liabilities increases. It will have a major impact on an increased number of applications. It is also a question of a simplified payment procedure, which I believe benefits both the debtor and the creditor. The debtor will have easier access to the payments, which are now only made to the bailiff, and it will also be easier for the creditors. It has been costly for many creditors to collect the sometimes very small amounts that have been received each month. Now there will be one payment per year. For these reasons, among other things, I and the Moderates welcome the bill and the improvements that exist in the debt restructuring institute. This will provide many more opportunities to be granted debt restructuring, perhaps especially for those entrepreneurs who have so far had only a limited opportunity to be granted debt restructuring – despite the legislative changes that took place in 2011. Sweden has gone out among other countries, and it must also be possible in Sweden to get a second chance even if you are an entrepreneur. It's really about time. I would like briefly to raise the issue of assessing the requirement for qualified insolvency. Since the Supreme Court ruling a number of years ago, there has been a wide-ranging discussion and debate on the assessment of when qualified insolvency has been achieved. I think that the proposal has landed correctly by clarifying that it is a nuanced assessment of all the individual's circumstances. The bill is largely good, and it is a matter of long-awaited changes – but it limps on certain points. What I was going to mention is what Caroline Szyber mentioned, among other things, is payment plans. Let's get back to Maria. She separated in 1990. The first issue of payment came in 1992. Then it went quickly, and she ended up in over-indebtedness and a hopeless situation. Only last year was Maria granted debt restructuring. It is a long time for her to live with this debt problem. Her two children have been under constant financial pressure, and there has been psychological pressure for the whole family. For more than 20 years, Maria has lived in over-indebtedness. That's what it looks like to a lot of people. As I said at the outset, the basic idea of the law is that the debtor should be rehabilitated and re-entered into society. For the individual, it is important that this is done urgently, and this also applies to society. We know that all these people who are granted deleveraging have been stuck in over-indebtedness for a long time. We want more people to apply for debt restructuring. I believe that the length of the payment period is one reason why some people refrain from applying. Five years can be perceived as a long time. In addition, we know that the months proposed by the government will only apply to some, because many who are granted debt adjustment are completely devoid of payment capacity. In fact, I do not understand why debt restructuring for entrepreneurs should have a shorter payment plan than natural persons should have, but I hope that the government representative will raise the issue in his speech later. Mr President, I would like to Let me say a few words about budget and debt advice in Sweden. The advisors do a very good and important job, but year after year the Swedish Consumer Agency's report has shown that the advice is not equal across the country and that there are shortcomings. Today, it is IVO who supervises. Just recently, the Swedish National Audit Office has concluded that IVO's supervision is in principle non-existent. This is also clear from the bill. We can't have that. The Swedish Consumer Agency is well aware of the activities of budget and debt restructuring. I am convinced that if the Swedish Consumer Agency were to be given supervisory responsibility, there would be supervision, firstly, and secondly, it would lead to more equal budget and debt advice across the country. He who is in debt is not free. I have great hopes that these two new laws will make it easier for many to return to a life without over-indebtedness. We all benefit from that. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have three reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 2.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-36	Mr President, I would like to The debt trap is a major problem. On a daily basis, creditors overwhelm us with proposals for loans and purchases on credit. Many companies that provide credit go to the misfortune of others and charge extreme interest rates. It is to be welcomed that this is being reviewed and also that today we are making it easier to get debt restructuring, which can be the ultimate consequence when credit is too large. However, debt restructuring shall be a last resort when the other options have been first tested. It is also important that it is not perceived as easy to get rid of your debts because it can reduce payment standards in general. The starting point must be to do the right thing as far as possible. To write off a debt for someone today means that he will be free of debt for one day. Teach any economy, and he will handle his money better. It is now also introducing a special debt restructuring for companies, which can have their debts settled in just three years. However, we see that there are major differences between companies and private individuals. In addition to the fact that under the new rules the company must have an income, a company can easily find itself in a difficult situation caused by something that it could not have anticipated. The company may suffer from the sudden bankruptcy of the main customer, or it will be like in Bjuv, where Findus suddenly moves abroad. If a small company with only one buyer has invested large sums and suddenly stands without income, it can become difficult. For us, it is logical that an entrepreneur who has otherwise managed his business can also get rid of his debts after a shorter period of time than a private person who has never had to take the same kind of risks. The Alliance's attitude here makes me somewhat puzzled. In practice, they believe that private debt restructuring should take place faster and easier than for companies. It will be because other demands are placed on companies in terms of income and so on. Mr President, I would like to We want to change something else in the proposal. We do not agree that it should be possible to clean up debts that have arisen as a result of violent crimes. It is our view that these debts should always be outside the clean-up and should always be paid to the last krona. In many ways, Sweden's system for damages is completely crazy. The Swedish Democrats have been pushing for change for many years. The fact that you, as a victim of crime, are to collect damages from the person who has committed a crime against you means that different victims have different opportunities to receive compensation. The Swedish Democrats have proposed that the state should pay damages due to violent crimes, and then the state should collect this money from the perpetrator – which should be more reasonable. With today's system, a victim can simply hope that the perpetrator has a decent economy so as not to risk losing out entirely on damages. The preparatory work for the previous law specifically mentions compensation for violent crimes. It states that normally it should not be possible to settle the debts of violent criminals. Then there are examples of cases where, after all, it should be possible, such as when the debt has existed for a very long time, when most of the debt is paid or when the victim thinks it is okay to cancel the debt. These are the same preparatory work that will now apply to the new rules on debt restructuring. If an perpetrator stays away and does not pay the damages for a sufficient period of time, it should be to the advantage of the perpetrator and make it easier to get debt restructuring. Moreover, if it is a very serious violent crime, so that the compensation has been high, it may be enough to pay a little more than half. At least that's how I interpret the wording that most of it is paid for. Most remarkable is the reasoning about the victim's attitude toward guilt. If the victim does not stand up and is able to continue to increase the collection of money to which victims are actually legally entitled, it should be an advantage for the offender. Debts resulting from violent crimes should simply never be decontaminated. Perhaps I can imagine that after a very long time an offender may have a debt adjustment of the other debts so that it will be easier for him to pay the damages. But the damages themselves should always remain. That should be the case, in my opinion, even if we Swedish democrats were to bring about a change in compensation for violent crimes, so that the state would pay the compensation to the victim. Even then, the debt, which then becomes between the state and the offender, must always be paid. There should never be any remediation of that particular debt. With that, I would like to endorse our reservation 5.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-46	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is, of course, one of the broad groups here who welcome the law on debt restructuring and improved opportunities for more over-indebted people, not least entrepreneurs, to get rid of their debt burden through debt restructuring. Many people here in the speaker's chair have explained what this situation is like for many people and how many it is about. I will not repeat it, but just agree with that description. Having been declared bankrupt or declared bankrupt in our country is a stigma from which it is difficult to break free while in other countries, where the view of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship is more positive, it is no wonder that someone has the misfortune of incurring debts through their entrepreneurship. Okay, she or he bet, but it didn't work out this time. Try to get rid of the debts, and try again! Maybe next time it'll go better. ..................................................... It can of course be problematic, but for new Swedes with a habit from home to run a small business, borrow money from family and friends, manage with a small clientele at the beginning and grow if possible, this can be crucial for their ability to succeed and hire people from their own group, their own peer group, who in turn can continue with business or get an employment. We have much to learn from others. However, we also have a social security system of which we have reason to be proud. That too is good for entrepreneurship. To dare to take a chance and fail doesn't mean that society will leave you in the lurch if you fall. The fact that a special law is now being introduced so that entrepreneurs can be eligible for debt restructuring welcomes the Center Party. We have been pushing this issue for a long time. The investigation that we set up in the Alliance, the New Start investigation, proposed the F debt restructuring that we have the opportunity to vote in favour of here. F debt restructuring means that a debt that has arisen as a result of entrepreneurship can be settled and partially written off as previously possible – it becomes more difficult when we club through this legislation – for private individuals. An entrepreneur's spouse, spouse, child, parent, sibling, cohabiting partner or cohabiting partner's children may also be covered by the possibility. Nor does it have to be an absolute obstacle to debt restructuring today that it has previously been the subject of debt restructuring. It's also a good opening. For an entrepreneur, it is often difficult to distinguish between entrepreneurship and private life. Illness, divorce, personal difficulties and debts that have arisen in other ways can reduce one's ability to run the company as intended. It is not possible to devote its full energy and working time to its company. This can lead to an increase in the burden of debt. I therefore support the proposal in the report – with two important exceptions. For the Center Party, it is important to ensure that the people who have been in debt and to ensure that it has not been so long since the debt came about that it has grown to a level that in practice makes it impossible to get rid of it and where the person's drive and ability to get out of it by himself or with the support of others completely disappears. Nor should it be felt that the best years of one's working life disappear while debts are paid. One should feel that it is possible to become debt-free within a reasonable and foreseeable time. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of the reserve 1 of the Centre Party and Liberals, which means that a debt that is deemed not to be repayable within five years should be regarded as qualified insolvency. The earlier it is considered appropriate for an operation, the greater your ability to implement it and a second chance. I also support the Alliance's joint reservation 2, which means that instead of assuming that the debtor wants months free of payment, we offer the person an opportunity to get rid of their debts more quickly. What is the joy of not having to pay off your debts during the summer months and Christmas holidays if this means that the time you must be subject to payment service is five years instead of three? We think that the advantage of having months free of payment during July and December is considered by being able to become debt-free quickly by living sparingly throughout the year. The Center Party welcomes the fact that more people are now being given the opportunity to be partly relieved of responsibility for their debts and restart debt-free. I therefore support the proposal in the report. But Mikael Eskilandersson, the Swedish Democrats, puzzles a little. It introduces, thanks to our efforts and investigations by the Alliance, the possibility of debt restructuring for entrepreneurs who are similar to those that have previously applied to private individuals. In addition, our proposal and our efforts improve the possibility of debt restructuring for individuals. The Alliance believes that it is more important to become debt-free quickly than to be given the possibility of paying free during one sixth of the year. The qualifying insolvency requirement shall be defined as a shorter and fixed period. What's the problem? We improve opportunities for both private individuals and, not least, companies by introducing the possibility of debt restructuring for entrepreneurs.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-62	Mr President, I would like to Over-indebtedness is a disaster for those affected and especially for those who are stuck in the debt trap for a long time, so-called eternity elders. The reason for over-indebtedness obviously varies, but the cause is usually personal tragedies such as unemployment, divorce, illness or bankruptcy. Over-indebtedness has a high price for both the individual and society. For example, over-indebted people have worse health and work less than the average population. In addition to the consequences for individuals, studies have shown that society's costs of over-indebtedness can be as high as SEK 30 – 50 billion. Over the past five years, the group of heavily indebted people has increased by over 3,000, indicating that the measures taken have not been able to slow down development. The number of applications for unpaid debts, known as orders for payment, to the enforcement officer is over 1 million per year. It can be noted that the previous government's sharp deterioration in sickness and unemployment insurance is likely to have contributed to an increase in over-indebtedness. Health and unemployment insurance is intended to provide the possibility of a transition period without destroying the household's finances. Children in over-indebted families are particularly hard hit. In a 2013 report, the National Board of Health and Welfare describes that children growing up in over-indebted families are severely affected by a very vulnerable financial situation. It is believed that the living conditions of these families are likely to be among the worse in society. Children often feel that they must take responsibility for the family's financial situation very early, which can cause both school and leisure to suffer. Some children say that they feel left out at school because they cannot go on various activities. Research has also shown that children who have grown up in social vulnerability face a greater risk of being left out of it than other children. It is very urgent that more eternal elders be given the chance to undergo a debt adjustment and be financially rehabilitated. I therefore welcome the Government's proposal to simplify, among other things, the application procedure, nuance the requirement of over-indebtedness and facilitate the debtor's payments, which means that more over-indebted people should be offered an opportunity to restart by deleveraging. I have also supported the proposal for two months of non-payment per year, which is particularly important from a child's perspective. It is extremely important to prevent people from falling into over-indebtedness, and that is why prevention is very important. In this context, municipal budget and debt counselling plays a central and crucial role. Then, of course, there are resources. It is therefore important that the municipalities of the country provide good budget and debt counselling with good accessibility and high quality. Audit by the Swedish National Audit Office Over-indebtedness – how does society's support and efforts work? shows that there are shortcomings in the current system and that municipalities devote only 8% to the important preventive work. It is necessary, among other things, to increase information and education efforts in order to reach children and young adults in particular. Civil society should also be able to contribute to preventive action. The economic language is for many difficult and often incomprehensible, so a broad public education effort is of great importance. There are already educational material in private economics aimed at secondary and secondary schools developed by the Swedish Consumer Agency in collaboration with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. Strengthening prevention is a cornerstone of efforts to prevent more people from falling into the debt trap. The new debt restructuring act clarifies the municipality's responsibility for budget and debt counselling and IVO's supervisory responsibilities. The Government has also decided to commission the Swedish Consumer Agency to strengthen support for municipal budget and debt counselling by developing recommendations and monitoring how these are used. The Swedish Consumer Agency has also been tasked with cooperating with the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and working towards an in-depth collaboration with social actors who, based on their areas of activity, are deemed to be able to contribute to people who have or risk having problems with debts being able to get help in order of their financial situation. We welcome these initiatives and will closely monitor this work to evaluate and see whether these efforts are sufficient or whether further reinforcement is needed. Like the government, I believe that it should be faster than today to get through a debt restructuring procedure. The Government's proposal that in more cases the payment plan should be set at less than five years is a step in the right direction, but there is room for further improvement here. In our opinion, as a general rule, the payment plan should be set at three instead of five years. Such shorter payment plans, combined with two non-payment months a year, would provide even better conditions for over-indebted people to cope with a deleveraging process and have a second chance without excessive burden on the debtor and his family. Nearly 40% of debt restructuring debtors, according to the report of the government debt restructuring investigation, have out of the debt trap at home children. Many of these children are denied the right to live normal lives. They cannot afford to play football because the football shoes are too expensive or to go to music school because the fee is too expensive. They cannot afford to go to coffee with friends, to go to the movies or to participate in other leisure activities that cost money. However, a five - year payment plan would force many of these children to live under very difficult economic conditions during most of their childhood and upbringing, which can have major negative consequences. It is also important to remember that most over-indebted people have lived on the poverty line for a long time, even before the deleveraging took effect. It is also reasonable to introduce two non-payment months during the debt adjustment period. This would mean that the debtor can get breathing space on two occasions a year, around summer and Christmas. This would be particularly beneficial for families with children. It can mean a great deal if you as a child are allowed to go out with your family in the summer or get a Christmas present for Christmas. I am convinced that this bill will improve the lives of many who are stuck in the debt trap and help them get out of it, which is good for the individual, for companies and for society at large. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-77	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 on a three-year debt restructuring period. For the gain of time, I do not support the other reservations of the Liberals, but of course I fully support them too. Liberals have been pushing for many years for a relief of the debt restructuring law so that people can come back and get a second chance. Much of the work has been carried out by my predecessor in the Civil Committee, Jan Ertsborn, who was also a special investigator in the matter, and by the former Minister of Consumer Affairs Birgitta Ohlsson. We welcome the new law, but we know that a new law on debt restructuring is not a kiosk roller. It is, however, so important to many Swedes. At the end of the last year, almost 428 000 people were registered with unpaid debts with the bailiff. As the Moderates' Jessika Roswall mentioned, over 100,000 of them have been in the records of unpaid debts with the enforcement officer for over 20 years. Many of them simply lack reasonable chances of getting rid of their debts despite efforts. They pay interest instead of paying off debts, and that is a great challenge when you never get to the point where you pay off your actual debts. Over-indebtedness is often due to social difficulties such as unemployment, long-term illness or divorce. Mr President, I would like to In the long run, it is untenable that so many Swedes are stuck in the debt trap. This leads to major social losses and social tragedies for many Swedish families – it is not only the individual in debt who is exposed. Most of the time it is the children who are most affected. The aid available in the form of debt restructuring is too difficult to bring about today's legislation. The Government has now presented a new bill on debt restructuring in the Riksdag which contains several proposals that the Liberals welcome, including on payment intermediation and on simplifying the application procedure. Many of these are based on Jan Ertsborn's investigation. However, we are very critical of the design that the government has chosen to give other parts of the bill. Among other things, the government proposes that the period of debt restructuring should be three years for entrepreneurs, but for everyone else it should be five years. Creating laws that involve such large differences between people is directly inappropriate. According to the Government, the reason for a shorter payment plan for entrepreneurs is that an entrepreneur should be able to quickly address his debt burden and be able to come back with renewed momentum. We Liberals believe that this opportunity must also be given to individual workers. Liberals' opinion is clear: both the entrepreneurship line and the work line must be protected. For those who have fallen into an irreparable debt trap, the debt adjustment should therefore last for three years, both for entrepreneurs and for wage earners. There are no compelling reasons for making a difference between different people, but everyone should be treated equally when it comes to debt restructuring. The most common argument against generally shortening the period of debt restructuring to three years is that it would impair payment standards in society. This is something that the Swedish Democrats, among others, mention. We Liberals do not believe that this argument is well-founded enough, and we have the experts on our side. There is no reason to assume that people would deliberately put themselves in a situation where, because of over-indebtedness, they would be forced to dispose of all realisable assets and then live on the minimum of existence only because the period of living at the minimum of existence would be three years instead of five. It does not put itself in the vulnerable situation simply because the period of time is shorter. With the Liberals' proposal for a general three-year payment period, there is no need for special rules on non-payment months and the possibility of more flexible payment periods. However, provided that the payment period remains five years, the Liberals are of the opinion that the arguments for these changes remain. We Liberals also question the fact that the Social Democrats have changed their feet on the issue of the length of the debt restructuring period. When in opposition, a three - year period of debt adjustment was exercised. That motion was signed by Carina Moberg, the former group leader of the party, among others, and one can well assume that it was also well grounded in the top management of the so-called Labour Party Social Democrats, who now want to make it easier for entrepreneurs to get debt restructuring than for workers. That's completely unreasonable! With regard to a more flexible payment period, the Liberals consider that a significant factor to be taken into account in the assessment should be how long the debtor has had wage foreclosure before a debt adjustment becomes applicable. Persons who have had salary for several years should be able to have their pay period shortened in proportion to how long they have had salary measurement. Another proposal in the bill is to introduce a more nuanced assessment of the situation of the debtor and whether a debt adjustment is justified – it is the so-called qualified insolvency act. This is a step in the right direction, which we in the Liberals welcome. However, the Liberals believe that the reasoning in the bill is so restrictive that it is doubtful whether the change will have any real impact. Like several consultation bodies, including the Association for Budget and Debt Advisors in Municipal Services and the National Association of Insolvency, we in the Liberals believe that when assessing qualified insolvency there should be time limits to base on. Our starting point is that the next five-year period should normally be the basis for assessment. All in all, the Liberals hope that a three-year restructuring and a more liberal assessment of the concept of qualified insolvency in the debt restructuring act will pave the way for a sharp increase in the number of debt restructuring cases. This, in turn, will have positive effects on creditors, over-indebted and society at large. It'll cost you some money. But giving the over-indebted Swedes an opportunity to return to normal economic life will also give us great socio-economic benefits – and there will be social benefits for the individuals. I would like the Social Democrats to answer the question in some speech: why have you changed your feet on how long the debt adjustment period should be?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-92	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected. What we are talking about today is eternal elders. It's about people who are stuck in the debt trap, and the years just go by. They'll never get out of their debt. This is not about general indebtedness. A lot of people have mortgages and they can handle it. That's not the problem. The problem is when you can't handle the debt and the debt may even grow. You only pay interest. You can't even do that because it's so high interest rates. It is a great loss to society that these people and their families are knocked out. It is, of course, a human suffering that cannot be measured in money, but it is also a significant economic loss. Many people get sick, if not already, of their debt. It's a hopelessness. It's hardly worth working. Everything you earn is measured by wage foreclosure. That is why there are very good reasons to give more people a second chance of getting out of the debt trap. In the Government's proposal, it is above all a matter of simplifying the application for debt restructuring, so that people can get rid of their debt. It is a matter of nuance the requirements of over-indebtedness. It should not be so high a requirement for someone to be counted as over-indebted. This makes it easier to get debt adjustment. It's about facilitating payments for the debtors during the payment period – eventually they'll get rid of their debt. It is about being able to get through the debt adjustment period more quickly. It is also a proposal for entrepreneurs. As an entrepreneur, you can apply for ordinary debt restructuring. But this possibility is now being introduced specifically for entrepreneurs. It is, of course, about reducing human suffering there too, but it is also about making it easier to run a business. Entrepreneurs should be given a second chance – this is when serious companies are involved. It is quite interesting to compare with, for example, the United States. It is no wonder that entrepreneurs go bankrupt. You don't see it as something negative. Unfortunately, in Sweden, it can be the death blow for entrepreneurs. They'll never get back on their feet again. It is a great loss – economic, human and at all levels. That is why we want to change this. We have concrete proposals. First of all, it's about the bailiff. The enforcement officer must inform the over-indebted, even before they get really deep into the debt trap, so that they apply for debt restructuring earlier. It is also about trying to reach more people with general information in society that there is actually an opportunity both to prevent over-indebtedness and to get out of it, if you have the misfortune to end up there. Another proposal is that it should be easier to apply for debt restructuring. You should also be able to do it electronically. As over-indebted, you must then state the name and contact details of those you owe money, an estimate of the debts and the background to the debts. But it is not as detailed information as it has had to be given so far as over-indebtedness. It can be hard to keep track of everyone you owe money. There can be a lot of them. The creditor, that is, the person who owes money, is given a greater responsibility to make an estimate of the debts and the background to the debts. The enforcement officer is given a responsibility to check the information from the over-indebted person against his or her own records. Qualified insolvency is about being really deep in the debt trap. We want to clarify and nuance that concept. This means that more people can be counted as qualified insolvent. It is said that you should not be able to pay the debt in the foreseeable future. It is stressed that an assessment must be made on a case-by-case basis. A payment service is then introduced. This means that you no longer have to pay directly to everyone you owe money – there may be ten or more. That mission will be held by the bailiff. Then all you have to do is pay a lump sum to the bailiff, who, in turn, distributes the money to those who are supposed to have the money. It introduces two months free of payment – June and December. When it comes to June, it is about being able to do something in the summer, not least when children are involved. You should be able to do something fun. In December there can be a lot of purchases of Christmas gifts, Christmas food and so on. That is why it will also be a month free of payment. So we do not have to stick to this strict liability. This is important from a child's perspective. The payment plan is getting shorter. Even at the initial decision on debt adjustment, the time starts to be counted off. This is then counted by the length afterwards. I have mentioned more information, both preventively and at the acute stage when you are over-indebted. This means that more people can apply earlier. The main problem today is that too few applicants apply. It is clear that applicants may have problems getting this, but the biggest problem is that too few applicants. If we increase information and help people to apply, we can get more people going through debt restructuring. There will be more than today who have a shorter payment schedule than five years. There are more circumstances to consider in order to get a shorter plan. Adaptation to the individual's circumstances is emphasised. They shall be reasonable reasons rather than for exceptional reasons. So the demands are relieved. It will also be easier to get a new debt adjustment for someone who has already gone through one. In the past it has been extremely restrictive. Now it's gonna be a little easier. Then one goes from extraordinary reasons to specific reasons. Budgetary and debt advisors have a clearer role to play in municipalities. It simply clarifies the responsibility of municipalities to provide budget and debt advice. This is also included in the Social Services Act – now it is in the Debt Reduction Act. It is therefore more preventive work that is included. This is not just about the acute stage of over-indebtedness. One gets responsibility throughout the entire debt restructuring process to help people through debt restructuring. IVO, the Inspectorate for Health and Care, supervises this. In the case of corporate debt restructuring, it must, of course, be a liability linked in particular to economic activity. It doesn't have to be the whole blame, but the main one. A relative of an entrepreneur who has received a debt due to the business activities of the related party must also be able to apply for F debt restructuring, corporate debt restructuring. You should be able to get this even if the future income is unclear. This means that it will be easier to get this debt adjustment. However, this does not cover rogue companies and businesses with a business ban. So you should not in any way help companies that make money on misleading grounds or that are extremely sloppy. If a creditor, i.e. someone who owes money to the entrepreneur, does not arrive during the debt restructuring procedure, he loses his claim. So you can't come later, because this is supposed to be a chance to really be debt-free.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-106	Mr President, I would like to Hillevi Larsson has some tough lines ahead, so I'll start by being nice. We agree on the main point. It will be easier to apply for deleveraging, easier to get deleveraging and easier to test a deleveraging process. I would like to thank Hillevi Larsson for explaining in a commendable way the preparatory work of the previous government and the investigations that have been set up and their results. Now to the question of the child perspective and the three-year and five-year debt adjustment. I believe that children are more deserving of having the guardian quickly become debt-free and given the opportunity to two summers more together with a parent who is free of debt than that the parent under five years of debt restructuring should have a couple of months free of payment. It hardly significantly creates better conditions for the parent to be able to book a trip to Mallorca for two weeks' holiday. It doesn't feel right. We seem to agree on this with the Left Party, so it is strange that we have not reserved together. The government should follow the investigation as Ertsborn did and go on the main track that a cleanup will last for three years and then be over. Like a previous speaker, I would like to remember that the Social Democrats at the time we discussed this were very positive and that the resistance came from another direction. Why have you changed your mind, Hillevi Larsson? Why is it so important for two months without payment that you allow a clean-up to last for another two years?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-111	Mr President, I would like to Precisely because children are at risk of living a large part of their childhood in over-indebtedness is one of the individual reasons for getting a shorter payment plan than five years. So there are good opportunities for families with children to have three years instead of five. For families with children, payment-free months are particularly important. It's not funny to have to say to your children: Unfortunately we can't afford any Christmas gifts this year, and unfortunately we can't h i tta on anything fun this summer. These are indeed extremely strained circumstances when you are in a debt restructuring procedure. There is little room for extra expenditure. You can have extra expenses like everyone else, for example when things break at home that you have to fix. Therefore, the non-payment months are important. I met some people who are over-indebted. They have got rid of their previous problems that caused over-indebtedness, but they do not get out of debt. They reacted very positively to the non-payment months. They know what it's like to live extremely scarcely and cheaply month after month, and now one can still get some relief some time during the year without affecting debt restructuring. It must be borne in mind that a mistake during the debt adjustment period can mean that the debt adjustment is interrupted and that you miss your chance. If three years is a good thing, why are you not also in favour of non-payment months? Well, I guess that would make things even better. That it should be just five years build you on an investigation set up by the previous bourgeois government, so it is not taken out of the air.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-118	Mr President, I would like to I remember this time. There was much discussion of this also within our constellation. I know that both the Center Party and the Liberals supported Mr Ertsborn's investigation in these discussions. I remember the wholehearted support of Hillevi Larsson's predecessor Veronica Palm in terms of the quick opportunity to get rid of his debts. Now we have a discussion about whether to have two months free of payment and a period as long as five years when you are in debt restructuring or a significantly shorter period in three years. According to my view, it is better for the child to have a parent free of debt after three years. It means more to the individual child and to all children in the family that this period is as short as possible. We have different views here, and it is not the Center Party that has changed its mind, but the Social Democrats. Therefore, I ask Hillevi Larsson to explain why this has suddenly become so important. Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I would like to take this opportunity to withdraw my request for approval of reservation No 1. Since my friend Robert Hannah did it so well, I'm not going to extend the voting time any more than necessary.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-122	Mr President, I would like to Let me repeat that the individual reasons highlighted in the new change that could lead to a shorter payment plan are, for example, children. So there are good opportunities. We have changed our minds because of the new investigation set up by the previous government. Jan Ertsborn's investigation was very good, and then there was the concrete proposal for three years. Then came the new investigation, and there it was proposed five years, with the important difference that you have months free of payment. We thought it was positive to have both months free of payment and the opportunity to shorten the time in cases where it is considered important for individual reasons, for example in the case of families with children. In this way, we see it as an improvement. I have also mentioned that more information can speed up the process of deleveraging. There is therefore much in this proposal that can lead to a shorter overall period of time. A simplified application also saves time. Already with the decision to get deleveraging, the deleveraging period begins. This means that it will be several months shorter. It is also sufficient to do so with significant reasons, unlike previous ones, for exceptional reasons. There are many changes in our proposal which mean that there will be considerably more people who will have less time. One might wonder why the previous government did not implement the proposal in three years' time. You had eight years. You had an excellent investigation of Jan Ertsborn as a basis for this. However, instead of implementing Jan Ertsborn's proposal, which, incidentally, had also been concerned about entrepreneurs, you set up a new investigation.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-130	Mr President, I would like to You can say a lot of things about the previous alliance government, but perhaps it is not entirely correct to say that the directives set out the length of the payment period. That's a little exaggerated. I have two simple questions for Hillevi Larsson. I will read something from the bill that we are discussing today and which Ro Bert Hannah has also lifted up. On p. 154, it says about the F debt adjustment, however, there is a strong interest in an entrepreneur being able to quickly tackle his debt burden and be able to restart or continue his business with renewed momentum. ..................................................... Why does this apply to entrepreneurs and not everyone else? Why does this not apply to other individuals? Do the Social Democrats believe that entrepreneurs do not have children? My second question concerns supervision. I did not hear a word in Hillevi Larsson's speech about the fact that IVO is actually not doing the supervision that is being done today. Not a word was mentioned about why it continues to say that IVO should supervise. What would suggest that IVO should supervise and not the Swedish Consumer Agency?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-135	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the Health and Welfare Inspection, IVO. They cannot handle supervision that is outside the Social Services Act. Therefore, they are not in a position to supervise the deleveraging process either, as it has so far been under the debt restructuring act. In our proposal, we move the issue from the debt restructuring act to the Social Services Act. This makes it easier for IVO to exercise supervision. IVO has also called for clearer supervisory responsibilities. You want it clarified, and you want it to go into the Social Services Act. So we have gone over the problems that IVO has experienced. The Swedish Consumer Agency is not completely cut off from this work, but it has received two important assignments. It is necessary to explain how recommendations on debt counselling are followed up, and it has an active role in ensuring how debt advice is done. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority shall also cooperate with the public authorities involved in preventing and combating over-indebtedness. We can see that the Swedish Consumer Agency is closely involved in the work. Then, of course, we will follow how it is applied in practice and how the law is complied with. With regard to three years, we have said that we are taking away the non-payment months precisely for entrepreneurs. The idea is that you should then be able to start a business immediately again. Then we make a little more demands that you actually have to comply with the payment plan. It can also be a little shorter with the reduction from five to three years. When Mrs Roswall asks whether entrepreneurs do not have children, I wonder: Why do you not want to introduce non-payment months in general?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-142	Mr President, I would like to If I start with IVO and the Social Services Act, it's a little half-truth. What is said is not really true, but many municipalities have just budget and debt counselling during social services today. It is clear that IVO has been able to carry out supervision. I want to add something. I still don't think I'm getting a good answer about why the Swedish Consumer Agency could not have supervisory responsibility – they're in jail with the expertise. But let's just leave it alone. As far as the payment period is concerned, I would like to repeat what Ola Johansson said about the children's perspective. Children have a different kind of time perception. Five years is a really long time for children, and three years is shorter. How can two months free of payment make matters better for a family? For me, that's crazy. Another thing is the difference between an entrepreneur and an individual. What makes it different? I still don't understand that. Finally, we have something that has been said but which missed the point. All the people we are talking about who are getting debt restructuring live on the poverty line, but many of them already have so-called zero decisions, that is, they pay nothing. Two months of non-payment therefore do not matter. They do not affect the breathing space required.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-147	Mr President, I would like to It is true that those who do not have that opportunity unfortunately do not get it, but those who do have the opportunity do. There are more people than you think who work while they go through debt restructuring and get their wages foreclosed. They can make pretty good money, but everything goes to paychecks. This is an improvement for those concerned. As I have said in the past, we clarify in the change in debt adjustment that it should be individual reasons that weigh more heavily, and then children's family is a strong reason for having a shorter payment period. I have previously listed all the circumstances that mean that in practice it will be less than five years, even for those who would have five years. I would like to turn to the question of the Social Services Act. It is important that this is formally below the debt restructuring act. Moving it to the Social Services Act is important. There are differences between municipalities how well this works. This is one way of ensuring that municipalities take greater responsibility, not only during debt restructuring, but also to prevent debt restructuring. Having met budget and debt advisers, I can say that everyone agrees that the most important thing is to prevent over-indebtedness, because once you have, many people get sick. It is a long way back, and even if you go through a debt restructuring, the ill health can unfortunately hang on. With regard to the three years, there may be consequential effects, i.e. deterioration of credit conditions. There are things that can be to the detriment of people who need to borrow money, and the m must be taken into account. However, the individual will weigh heavily, and in practice many will receive three years or less. I would also like to say that, unfortunately, the Moderates were against all this in the last period.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-153	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by reading out a press release of 14 January 2010. The sender is Carina Moberg, Chairman of the Civil Committee and Group Leader of the Social Democrats. She writes:中 Investigator Jan Ertsborn (fp) proposal means that the debt adjustment period is shortened and that more people are given the opportunity for debt adjustment and a new start in life. –– We are in favour of the proposals... My question to the Social Democrats, to which I have still not been given an answer, is: Why have they changed their perspective and their opinion on the question? You mentioned that it is an improvement, Hillevi Larsson. I'd like you to explain what's an improvement. The Liberals' and the Alliance's proposals and the Left Party's proposals are a 36-month debt restructuring period. The proposal you have submitted to Parliament is 50 months, apart from the two non-payment months per year. I want you to explain how the child perspective gets better when parents are forced to live with debt adjustment for 50 months instead of 36 months. There's a 14-month difference. Thus, children will live 14 months longer with the parent's minimum of existence than is needed. You have chosen to add 14 months since Carina Moberg was in charge. Now it is Hillevi Larsson who decides which clean-up period should apply. I'd like an explanation. How can the child's perspective be better with 14 months of debt restructuring?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-158	Mr President, I would like to I would like to reiterate once again that we previously had investigative proposals from Jan Ertsborn as a basis. It was well-known, and we therefore put forward the proposal in three years' time. Then came Ralf G Larsson's investigation, which the previous bourgeois government set up. It proposed five years. However, I would like to stress that it certainly does not have to be that long, but it can be much shorter, but with the non-payment months. We thought it was a positive and well-examined proposal, especially when combining with individual factors, which should weigh heavier. It should be easier both to get debt restructuring at all and to get it for a shorter period. It is about families with children, which is specifically mentioned as a reason for having a shorter payment period. It can be about age, health, work situation, how much the debt is and so on. These are special circumstances that allow families other than families with children to have a shorter payment period. That's the reason. At the same time, I'm surprised. We agreed that Jan Ertsborn's proposal was good. We had that investigation as a basis before the new investigation on non-payment months came. If you thought it was so good, Robert Hannah, why didn't you introduce it? You had eight years. I am amazed that, after the elections and after eight years, you suddenly want to carry out something that has been set aside for a long time. It's weird. We are taking significant and important steps forward with the proposals. I therefore think that this question has been resolved.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-162	Mr President, I would like to I can agree that Jan Ertsborn is a brilliant politician and that his investigation was very good. Carina Moberg, chairman of the Civil Committee and the Group leader of the Social Democrats, thought the investigation was good. Liberals have never changed their minds on this issue. It is you who have changed your mind, Hillevi Larsson, and therefore it is you who need to answer why you have done so. You still haven't been able to explain to me how a 50-month payment period is better from a child's perspective than a 36-month payment period. It's the least you can answer. How is a 14-month payment period better from a child's perspective? There are no arguments for, and that is why you do not answer the question, Hillevi Larsson. As far as qualified insolvency is concerned, the Liberals have been exercising on this point, because we believe that it is unclear how it should be assessed. We have therefore exercised that the last few years should be the basis for assessment in order to be able to foreclose or shorten the period of time. You haven't exercised there either. The best thing would have been if you had taken Jan Ertsborn's investigation and just carried it out instead, if it were so excellent and you have so many beautiful words to give him here today. It would have meant a better child perspective and a better assessment of qualified insolvency, and it would have given more people the opportunity to get out of the debt trap. I really want the answer to the question: how can 36 months of payment be worse than 50 months? How could it be better to go through a longer foreclosure period than a shorter one?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-168	Mr President, I would like to Let me repeat this one more time: it will not be the case that it is primarily families with children who have a payment period of five years, but there is good reason for it to be three years. It can even be shorter than three years if you include the non-payment months and count on applying for debt adjustment earlier because you get better information, that it becomes easier to qualify for debt adjustment. What is highlighted by the consultation bodies – although there are, of course, consultation bodies that think differently – is that it is not the short time that is the most important thing, but that it is the individual adaptation in the individual case, which has previously failed and which we are now doing something about by emphasising that it should be clarified that it determines the length. It is important to get through this period. The risk is that the family may not be able to cope with the debt adjustment, even if the payment period as a general rule is three years. If you don't have months without payment, it might fall on it, and then you're back to square one. That would hit a lot harder. It should be remembered that many of these people have already been in the debt trap for many years. I am not saying that the difference between three and five years is insignificant. But the most important thing is to apply for debt adjustment at all, for many do not, and then can get through debt adjustment and really become debt-free. That is the big problem today. It is not families with children that this is about, but family with children is one of the reasons for shorter payment periods. Therefore, I do not understand why we are repeating this with families with children over and over again. The reason we've changed our minds is because there's been a recent investigation. I wonder why you've changed your mind. Why didn't you implement Jan Ertsborn's proposal? Why did you set up an investigation that you then don't want to care about and that is actually fresher than Jan Ertsborn? That's the question.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-173	Mr President, I would like to Under the new rules, damages resulting from violent crimes should normally not be able to give entitlement to debt restructuring. However, as I mentioned in my speech, there are three things that can make it possible after all. It's if the debt is old, if the main part is paid or if the victim thinks it's okay. My question to Hillevi Larsson is whether she thinks that debts due to violent crimes should be decontaminated – although only in exceptional cases but that one should be able to do so – and that one should thus be able to remove some of the victim's damages.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-175	Mr President, I would like to The main rule is clear: Claims for compensation to victims of violent crime should not be included in debt restructuring. So we have a very clear general rule. We've had it before, and we still have it. But there may be exceptional situations, very specific individual cases. There is talk of older dates, that is, crimes that have been committed a very long time ago and where you may have completed part of the payment. It may also be that the victim, i.e. the victim, has no chance of getting anything at all out of the debt – that scenario unfortunately exists. A debt adjustment can then mean that the victim receives part of the compensation. It can therefore even be positive for the victim in some cases, and this should be taken into account as a circumstance in which it actually benefits the victim. A violent crime is a terrible crime. There is really nothing worse than when someone goes after a person, hurts or kills a person. Of course, deleveraging will not be the case for murder, I would like to emphasise, and it is mentioned that deleveraging would be offensive in the event of rape, for example. But there may be specific circumstances and specific cases. When you have served your prison sentence, which is often involved in violent crimes, you get a second chance in life to move on. But when it comes to debt, you are often in debt for life, for good. One might wonder: Why should it give a life sentence for the person who committed the crime and his family? There may therefore be specific exceptions. However, the main rule is still that such liabilities should not be included in debt restructuring.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-179	Mr President, I would like to Hillevi Larsson is talking about a second chance. Then one can question why the victim should not be given a second chance to proceed immediately after the judgment has fallen. The opinion of the Swedish democrats is that the state should pay the compensation and then recover it from the criminal, instead of perhaps having to carry on as a victim for 10, 20 or 30 years and try to recover a debt that you may never get in, as we have just mentioned, if you now start talking about debts of older dates. It would be more logical to at least withdraw compensation as a result of violent crimes as long as we have a system in which the victim himself will recover his or her debt, in order to ensure that the victim is always given what he or she is entitled to. It is not a common debt, but guilt due to violent crime is a very specific debt.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-181	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that a debt due to violent crimes is very special debt and, as a general rule, it is exempt from deleveraging. If there are few people who get debt restructuring for other reasons, there are extremely few who get it for this reason. We do not propose any change to this, that it should be easier in these particular cases. On the other hand, it is a little worrying that we want to close the small gap that exists today, to be able to take this into account in certain exceptional situations. As I mentioned, it can even benefit the victim and mean getting some of what the perpetrator is guilty, unlike getting nothing at all. In fact, the victim may find it positive. You can certainly discuss how the victim receives his or her compensation in many cases. However, this is a completely different issue, which is not within the remit of the Committee on Civil Liberties. One can discuss whether the victim of the crime in another way should perhaps receive his compensation earlier. In this case, I believe that both the victim and the perpetrator can, in certain exceptional cases, benefit from debt restructuring. As a general rule, debt due to violent crime is removed from ordinary debt restructuring, but in all cases if it is removed from ordinary debt restructuring, the risk is that the rest of the debt restructuring will be completely meaningless, because it may mean that you are back at square one: the other debt is settled, but then an over-indebtedness is built up around this compensation if you do not have the chance to pay it because you do not have any income, for example. I maintain that debt adjustment needs to be provided for specific exceptional situations. The risk of over-exploitation is, I believe, non-existent when one sees how difficult it is to get debt restructuring for other reasons, such as family death, divorce, unemployment and bankruptcy. Even then, in many cases, people have not had the opportunity for debt restructuring. It is also necessary in certain exceptional cases to do so.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-186	Mr President, I would like to We deal with many matters in this House. Of course, everyone is important, because otherwise they wouldn't be dealt with here. But I think this matter is important in the way that it affects a great many people in their everyday lives, what happens every day. We must say, though, that certain types of legislation that we decide on concerns few or that one is concerned rather rarely. I am delighted with the government's proposal for a new law to give over-indebted people a better chance to restart. This law makes it easier for many of our most vulnerable fellow humans, those who have really bad finances and so large debts that it is reasonable to believe that they can never pay their debts without help. When we build the sustainable society that we are building, we need to build from the smallest building block, and that is every fellow human being. The stronger each one is, the stronger we can build society. One concern that has been seen is that people who would probably be entitled to debt restructuring under current legislation do not get that opportunity or take that opportunity. One purpose of the new law is that more people should be able to apply for debt restructuring and have a chance to undergo debt restructuring. The point is, therefore, that it will be easier to apply, to clarify what over-indebtedness means and to facilitate the reimbursement of the person who is in debt and to speed up debt restructuring. An important part of the reform is the two months free of payment June and December. I think that will be a relief for everyone, but especially important for families with children. You know that it is usually said that building a society that is good for children will also be good for more than the children. In addition, the law on debt restructuring for entrepreneurs makes it easier for entrepreneurs to get debt restructuring. It is important for entrepreneurship and innovation that you dare to take the opportunity to invest in your company and know that if this particular business idea does not work as well as you have thought, you have a chance to come again. I guess that behind many of our most successful companies and entrepreneurs are actually a lot of ideas that may not have been the successful ones we hear about. There will also be more opportunities to actually get a second chance. As it has been now, it has not been possible, in principle, to get debt adjustment again. Mr President, I would like to In addition to this legislation, the Government has given the Swedish Consumer Agency two important tasks. One of the tasks is to make recommendations, together with other actors, on how budget and debt advice should work and then follow it up. I think it is important that it is an actor who provides support for budget and debt counselling and that it is another operator who manages supervision. The second task is to deepen collaboration so that those who have or risk having problems with debt can control their finances before they are over-indebted. The important thing about these missions is that it is better to get really early help. In fact, the best thing is if the debt restructuring act does not need to be used because you get the right help on time. I think that sustainable society is not stronger than its weakest link. This means that we need to strengthen each one. Those who have a really bad economy are really vulnerable in our society. It is gratifying that the committee supports the Government's proposal. I note that in many cases follow-up movements are quite reasonable. They are even so reasonable that they can be answered that we will, of course, follow up the operation of the new law. Nevertheless, I am a little pleased that these motions have been raised, because if we had all agreed, we would not have been in this House talking about this particular bill. Part of the problem of debt restructuring and over-indebtedness is that there is too little knowledge of these possibilities for help among the population. I support the proposal in the committee's report and reject the reservations. I am pleased that there seems to be broad support for the new debt restructuring act and for us to ensure that it works as intended. It will give more over-indebted people the opportunity to restart.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-201	Mr President, I would like to I would like to quote from motion 2010/ 11:C4 by, among others, Gustav Fridolin, which refers, among other things, to Jan Ertsborn's investigation The road back to over-indebted people. Jan Ertsborn is, by the way, a very good politician from the Liberals. The exercise reads: Many of those in debt have lived on the poverty line for a long time. For the vast majority, therefore, it is not a question of living on the poverty line only during the years of debt restructuring, but for much longer than that. Not least for the above reasons, where children are at risk of over-indebtedness, we believe that the main rule for the repayment period should be reduced from five to three years. ..................................................... It is therefore, among others, your spokesperson who writes this in a motion from 2010. It has also been signed by Jan Lindholm and Agneta Börjesson, two current members of the Environmental Party. Previously, the Green Party thought 36 months was the best time for debt restructuring. Now you think that 50 months, 14 more months, is a better period of debt restructuring and to help people get away from living on the poverty line. I would like you, Camilla Hansén, to explain why it is better to live at the poverty level for 50 months than for 36 months.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-206	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased, Robert Hannah, that you read my mouthpiece's movements and also inform me a little bit about great liberal thinkers. As you can see, more of you in this room have a better track of history than I have who took office in January. Nevertheless, I have understood the following, thanks among other things to good historical briefings of you earlier here. There was an investigation as early as 2008 when you were in government. Then you could have moved on with legislation right away. Then there has been another study which proposes other things, and it is on that basis that we are presenting this particular proposal. I note that there is still broad support for the bill as a whole.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-211	Mr President, I would like to Now it is the Green Party that has changed its mind on the matter. It is not the Liberals who have done so. The Liberals have had the same opinion on this issue ever since Jan Ertsborn came up with his investigation The road back to over-indebted people. The question therefore remains: what has caused the Green Party to change its feet on this issue? Why are you suddenly in favour of a longer payment period than you were before? What's the basis for that? Is it more human? Is it better for the individuals to come back? Is it better from a child's perspective? From what perspective is it better to have a 50-month payment period instead of a 36-month payment period? Nevertheless, it is your mouthpiece that has exercised and thought 36 months is excellent. What, then, makes the later investigation better than Jan Ertsborn has written? I would like to know why the latter investigation is better than the previous one that Gustav Fridolin thought was excellent.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-214	Mr President, I would like to One can have a slightly different view of legislation. You can go in and regulate in detail very clearly and make sure that it is equal for everyone. You could say it's fair. The question is whether equal for all is always good. What is important here, and which Hillevi Larsson also highlighted, is the individual examination. I think that is something that we should see how it comes out, so that we can actually measure how long the payment time will be. It would be nice if it turned out that Gustav Fridolin's exercise was consistent with how long the payment period would be for families with children. But it remains to be seen. And it is very clear that this legislation should be followed up. I would also like to strike a punch because the intention is that this legislation should be used as little as possible and that the other measures should actually have an effect.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-217	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are the party that goes the furthest and wants to completely remove the supranational EU, instead of having voluntary cooperation between the countries. One would imagine that we should then oppose everything that is put forward in Parliament as a result of decisions in the EU. But personally I see it as a rather fruitless struggle as long as we are not part of a ruling majority. Instead, we have chosen to support the small steps towards a less supranational Europe that can sometimes be shown by other parties. A previous investigation that was set up to clarify how the EU's so-called audit package would be integrated into Swedish law did not consider that there was any reason to impose requirements on a general oversight system for public-interest entities. Some of the consultation bodies stated that a supervisory system involving non-financial corporations is alien to the Swedish market. Sweden has a long tradition of applying self-regulation, and that is also the model that has applied so far and, if you will say so, has worked well. We rarely share the Center Party's view on the implementation of EU directives, as the party is usually in favour of almost everything that comes from Brussels. I hope that this will not be the exception that confirms the rule. Many parties have expressed the view in different contexts that the EU should become narrower and sharper. Today, the EU is increasingly introducing detailed regulation of the individual countries, completely without looking at each country's unique conditions in each area. The big problem is that the EU level is basically always the wrong level for changes to laws in Sweden. Either there is a need to have equivalent and adapted laws between different countries, but they are normally needed for far more countries than those that happen to be part of the EU. There are probably few issues that only concern countries that are within the EU area and no others. The alternative is that there is no need to have global rules, but the rules that we ourselves have set ourselves are sufficient. What is even worse than the EU's ability to interfere in the detail of Member States' legislation is Sweden's exaggerated interpretation of EU directives. Often Sweden stands out and makes more far-reaching changes than is really necessary. This seems to be another example. One can really wonder how this makes Europe narrower and sharper. With this, I would like to support reservation 1.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-223	Mr President, I would like to Narrower but sharper! The Center Party is consistently critical of all forms of regulations and burdens that limit the opportunities for job creators in the Swedish business community – it is everything from individual firms, small and large limited companies to listed companies – to operate, be competitive and growth-oriented, as well as being able to compete globally with their know-how and creativity. That's how we build Sweden strong, and that's how we make sure that people get into work and support. We secure our welfare through tax revenue. We should not limit opportunities for and inhibit the creativity of entrepreneurs by unnecessarily hampering the forms and frameworks of their entrepreneurship. Here we have to implement an EU directive, the so-called audit package, which mainly regulates auditors of large companies and public-interest entities. We appoint authorities to supervise these and decide on a rotation of auditors. The purpose of this is good, and there are certainly several cases – perhaps not many in our country, but in the rest of Europe – where such a regime is highly justified and absolutely necessary. By strengthening the audit as an institution and making it completely independent of the companies it has to audit, irregularities are prevented in enterprises. In Sweden, we have long used the concept of an authorised accountant and accountant to mark this independence. We also decide what is to be considered as public-interest entities. They are listed companies, credit institutions and insurance companies. Most people, including us in the Center Party, agree that this is good and necessary. It is gratifying when there is an ambition on the part of the government to do so in such a way that it gives the auditor companies and auditors as little regulatory hassle as possible and does not unnecessarily complicate their work. At the same time, they are independent of other relationships with the customer, that is, the company they are set to perform the audit at. No additional services may be provided to the auditor's customer. Of course, an auditor should not be able to obtain a position in the company, such as a member of the board or manager, within one year of carrying out the duties. It shall be possible to explain its impartiality in specific reports to an auditor's board, which will have extended tasks and powers. As an auditor, you must submit to a quality check with a time interval of six years or, sometimes, less. It also introduces requirements for what and how the auditor should report and that one should be sceptical. It's quite natural for an accountant to do that, I think – it's well as that's the task. The amount of disciplinary action against an auditor shall be increased by penalties. They must be tangible and, in the worst case, mean that an audit firm must pause for as much as three years, if there is reason for it. An auditor or an accounting firm who cannot engage in his profession for such a long time is away from the market, perhaps forever. Of course it's felt. All of this is reasonable and acceptable. No consultation bodies that have looked at this have opposed it, and that is in line with what the directive requires. So, father, so good! However, when we come to the issue of supervision, we in the Center Party have reacted to the fact that we should also be able to intervene against the company, that is to say, the agency, with a new law on special supervision. It is in this case that Finansinspektionen is given this task – as if it does not have enough to do! The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has also explicitly asked to be excused. This is completely alien to the Swedish tradition of self-regulation, and it feels very alien to the Center Party. The investigation, which the government otherwise follows, does not recommend such a system. To do this is also not a requirement explicitly set out in the EU Directive. It is this kind of gold-plating of EU directives that we in the Center Party often react to – when Sweden chooses not only to introduce what we need in our legislation, but to make completely new laws, which no one has asked for and which there seems to be no particularly strong reason to ask for. Views may also be made on the inconsistency of financial activities requiring a significantly shorter rotation period for auditors – 10 years compared to 20 to 24 years of rotation, as is the case for public-interest entities. So it's the stock exchange companies. This poses problems for listed public-interest entities which, in part of their activities, in different subsidiaries and in companies established in different EU Member States, in addition to the difference in rotation periods, have to deal with 28 different regulatory frameworks. That is how many Member States it is about. It would therefore have been good if the rules were harmonised before they were laid down here, Mr President. Without insisting on it in this House, I would like the government to move forward in favour of harmonisation between the Member States, if only in order to strengthen European companies in the global market. Mr President, I would like to Now, however, we stand here and are going to lay down a legislative proposal on the revision. I would therefore like to endorse the Center Party's reservation, which is based on my own follow-up motion and which means that we are opposed to excessive and unnecessary regulation that deviates from the Swedish corporate governance tradition, where it is the shareholders and the general meeting that, with the help of the auditors – and at their advice – demand responsibility from the Board and the CEO. It is also foreign to us that Finansinspektionen becomes the authority that gets the task, which is in no way linked to their other activities. Those of you who do not support this should consider why the Financial Supervisory Authority should be given this task. Are you saying that it is the Government of Sweden that is to take command of listed companies, their owners and parties? If nothing else, it sends out a signal that you can also imagine an overcoat that ensures that company boards are quotad, which is something we have agreed on is a matter of ownership. Those of you who have chosen not to support our follow-up and reservation, is it really your view that we should take a path where it is the Financial Supervisory Authority that supervises the business sector and companies of general interest, and not just financial corporations and banks, that are taking place today? In that case, we are dangerously close to the cleavage that would ultimately mean that we also approve a regime in which the EU decides how a board of directors is to be composed.
i-JiL2rfk1A5ZpFAN9oPaYkK	Mr President, I would like to In spring 2014, the EU Regulation amending the Auditors' Directive, known as the Auditor's Package, was adopted. Swedish law must be adapted and the directive implemented on 17 June 2016. So what we are going to decide on today is the result of European decisions. It is the result of the pursuit of competitive neutrality in a single European market and of a high level of confidence in the market and the companies operating there. There is a great deal of agreement in committee on the proposals in the bill, and we welcome the fact that the important role of the audit is also recognised at European level. The audit fulfils an important social function. It aims to increase the reliability of corporate reporting, which is an important basis for decisions for shareholders, among other things. The proposed legislative amendments aim to strengthen the independence of the audit, improve the quality and provide more information in the audit report. It is also of great benefit to various stakeholders. The audit package, in the light of the scandals that have occurred, in which companies have committed accounting crimes without the auditor acting, is an extremely important proposal. Auditors have also been involved in some cases reported by the media in the scandals. It damages confidence in the audit and the entire business community. The independence of auditors must therefore be strengthened. Several provisions of the Directive and the Regulation as a whole are addressed to public-interest entities. It is also made clear in the law which are included: stock exchange companies, banks, credit market companies, insurance companies and so on. In order to strengthen the independence of the audit, other services that the auditor may sell are limited to the audited company and their value. Additional services shall not affect the auditor's independence, either financially or professionally. It is made clear that an audit firm should not take on tasks if someone within the Agency has significant financial interests in the company. It also introduces a withdrawal period for auditors who have participated in audits to transfer to senior management positions in the audited company. In order to strengthen independence, rules on agency rotation are introduced. Public-interest entities shall change the audit firm after 10 years. If a company hires a single audit firm for so many years, there is a risk that the auditor's independence from the audited company will be weakened. Although this is not the case now, the suspicion of a weakened independence is sufficient reason to introduce a rule on agency rotation. Another innovation is that all public-interest entities should have audit committees. They will also monitor the new rules on impartiality. The committee is also responsible for an invitation to tender that will precede the election of the auditor. Nor should an undertaking be able to dispose of a difficult auditor without providing objective reasons for it. In relation to auditing, Finansinspektionen shall be responsible for the supervision of public-interest entities. And there are many of the companies that are actually affected by the legislation that are already under the supervision of Finansinspektionen. The listed companies, which were also mentioned by Ola Johansson, have also been placed under the supervision of Finansinspektionen in recent years, for example in relation to prospectuses and market abuse. It is appropriate to bring together the supervision of one and the same authority when it comes to auditing, both for better use of resources and for simplicity for businesses. Finansinspektionen may impose sanctions on a public-interest entity that does not set up an audit committee, appoints an auditor in the wrong way, retains the auditor for a long time or dismisses the auditor without objective grounds. But first of all, companies should be given the opportunity to correct. In the event of infringements, fines may be imposed. In particularly serious cases, persons in senior management of the undertaking may also be subject to a penalty fee or be prohibited from holding senior management positions in public-interest entities. The sanctions should of course be proportionate and take into account how companies and those responsible have acted in the particular case and also in the past, but also how serious the offence is and whether they have been involved in investigations. Supervision is not a problem if you do the right thing or have the ambition to do the right thing. The auditor's package contains rules concerning both audit and audited companies and their relationship. It is therefore reasonable for both parties to be subject to supervision and to penalties. The law becomes a blow to the air if it is not followed up and if the authority is not able to demand rectification or intervention when it receives information about infringements. Competition on equal terms and confidence in the market presupposes that everyone adheres to the rules that have been established. Similarly, the auditors and audit firms are to be audited by the Audit Board, which also has increased scope for sanctions against those who misbehaved in relation to the rules of independence. The discipline system is similarly extended with fines and a ban on auditing, which Ola Johansson also talked about here earlier. It also introduces a duty of duty, reinforced with the possibility of a penalty payment. The aim is to act as a deterrent and to maintain confidence in the independence of auditors. If I am going to sum up the bill, which may not always be easy, it contains rules on more comprehensive audit reports and strengthened independence. More companies will have an audit committee that will also receive more tasks, Finansinspektionen will supervise public-interest entities and the Audit Board will have increased opportunities for disciplinary measures. We Social Democrats welcome the new rules and call for approval of the proposal for a decision and rejection of the motion.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-253	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about the implementation of an EU directive, the so-called audit package. It is a package that will lead to a strengthened independence between the auditor and the audited one. My colleague Johanna Haraldsson has just explained very well and clearly the content of the proposal, so I will not stand here and repeat everything Johanna has said. The audit package strengthens the rules aimed at protecting the independence of auditors, which is a very good thing. I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision in the report and the government proposal. Given the thickness of the report, one might think that this would be a long debate, but that is not the case.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-257	Mr President, I would like to Publicity and confidentiality are two constant contrasts in all public activities, as demonstrated by the importance of transparency on the one hand and the protection of privacy on the other. In our country, we have a long tradition of allowing citizens to gain insight into the decision-making of authorities and courts. For this we can thank our proud principle of public access, which celebrates 250 years this year. At the same time, personal integrity must not be sacrificed on the altar of public access. For the legislator, therefore, it is important to constantly find the ultimate balance between publicity and confidentiality. Report KU22 on the disclosure and confidentiality of information in court rulings confirms that we legislators are making an effort to fine-tune this intricate point of balance. Sometimes we do less well. In this case, however, the government and parliament have made reasonable balances. No motions have been raised, and the report therefore has no reservations, so, yes, I can understand if the President wonders why I have joined as the sole speaker on this matter. But the reason is that I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the proposal to be decided by Parliament is not at all as boring and bloodless as one can first be led to believe – quite the contrary. The KU has dealt with a proposal aimed at placing greater emphasis on the interests of victims and plaintiffs in the confidentiality of sensitive information in judgments and decisions than on the public interest in the publicity and transparency of the judicial activities of the media. That perspective can provoke. The public shall have as much transparency as possible in the activities of the courts. It is a cornerstone of every rule of law worthy of the name. However, as the KU notes, the interest in the protection of individuals' privacy must also be taken into account when deciding which information should be public, not only during a trial but also after, i.e. after the judgment and decision have been taken. The main rule today is that all information entered in a court ruling should be public. The information may be classified only if, as it is termed, national security or any other interest of particular importance so requires. This rule is, on the one hand, restrictive and, on the other hand, very general and does not give much guidance to the courts in specific cases. It is not uncommon for victims of sexual crime, for example, to be forced to appear with full identity data in judgments and decisions, with perhaps devastating consequences for private life. The government and the KU now want to tighten up practices by introducing clearer rules on when the courts should and should not order continued confidentiality even after the judgment and decision have been given. It also introduces rules on the extension of the confidentiality of decisions concerning the appointment of public defenders and plaintiffs. In these cases too, it is justified for reasons of integrity. It should not be forgotten that these and other proposals in the report together mean a slight reduction in the level of public access to court decisions. However, the changes are, as I said, well justified by the parties' need for protection of their privacy. These amendments also reduce the risk that the European Court of Human Rights may have condemned Sweden for failing to comply with the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Privacy. Mr President, I would like to A united KU proposes that the Riksdag say yes to the Government's proposal.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-267	Mr President, I would like to Most of the issues we are discussing in this House are those that affect us during our lifetime. However, this does not apply to all issues. In fact, today's topic is about things that will affect us after our death. The report is called certain funeral issues. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2. For a long time Sweden and the Swedes have been good at sorting and recycling. To argue that you want to be environmentally friendly is probably the least controversial thing a Swede can do today, and of course most people agree that it is important that we politicians discuss environmental issues. The question, then, is whether environmental policy can go too far? Can our eagerness to be environmentally friendly go too far? Can we sort and recycle too much? Until a while ago, I would have said no myself spontaneously. However, when the government recently presented the bill we are going to discuss and debate today, I was actually choking on coffee. What, then, is this bill about? In large part, it is about exactly what the title says, namely certain funeral issues. Several parts of the proposal are, in fact, completely uncontroversial and unproblematic. But then we come to the pieces that Löfven probably during a stressful day at work left to some squeezed environmental party to write. To explain this further, I will read a few lines from our report. 中 Of the environmental quality targets, the goal of a non-toxic environment is most clearly linked to the question of recycling of metals after cremation. The bill states that metal is a finite natural resource with which it is important to conserve and that the recycling of metals contributes to achieving the goal of a non-toxic environment. The government says that another aspect is that metal parts that are not incinerated at cremation and that are buried in the ground are regarded as, Mr President, astonishment, as well as waste according to the Environmental Code and the Waste Regulation... According to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste and repealing certain Directives (the Waste Directive), the so-called Waste Directive. the hierarchy of waste, which is highlighted as the order of priority for legislation and policy. The waste hierarchy means that recycling should as a general rule be chosen before disposal. ..................................................... To sum up, Mr President: the government therefore wants it to be decided today that metals that we have in our bodies, such as tooth gold and other things, should preferably be sent for recycling instead of being put in the urn. It is serious that this is a major problem, which seems as serious as when, as you may remember, the previous environmental debate seriously claimed that our whole future is determined by how many cows farts. We should no longer be content with recycling and sorting sources during our lifetime, but should also be recycled and sorted after our death, if Gustav and Stefan get what they want. According to the bill, precious metals of a more personal nature together with other metals in the same mechanical process should be distinguished from the ashes. Furthermore, it is clear that the intention is that such precious metals should not be considered as part of the ash when they have been sorted out and that they should therefore be recyclable. We believe, for ethical reasons, that this is not acceptable, at least as far as the remains of metal objects of a more personal nature are concerned. As far as possible, such metal residues should be added to the cut. This should also be done if a certain manual handling is required. We believe that this is more ethically justifiable. Under the current legislation, all parts of the dust that have not been incinerated are to be added to the accumulator. Derogations may be made only if the addition to the cut cannot take place, for example because the object is too large. We believe that today's provisions on this are a better order, especially from an ethical point of view. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned earlier my suspicions that this bill is probably an environmental-partisan product, and I must admit that my thoughts about this party are not so high. Personally, I had hoped to avoid environmental partisan environmental policy, at least after my death.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-278	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has supported the Government's proposal for amendments to the Funeral Act. But we do not entirely agree to support the Government's proposals in all parts. From the Center Party we criticise the government for leaving Stockholm and Tranås municipalities outside the system of uniform funeral fees, which apply in the country in general. We in the Center Party want it to apply throughout the country. We from the Center Party have initiated a motion for the introduction of a uniform funeral fee rate throughout the country. I have reserved in the Constitutional Committee for the motion in our motion. Since 1 January 2016, a uniform funeral fee kit applies to the Church of Sweden, which is the head of funeral operations throughout the country except in Stockholm and Tranås, where the municipalities are responsible for funeral operations. The report of the Investigation on certain funeral issues, SOU 2013:82, which forms the basis of the bill, suggested that Stockholm and Tranås should be part of the system of equalising funeral fees. But the government, like now all parties in the KU except the Center Party, has chosen not to include the proposal that Stockholm and Tranås should be part of the equalization system. The study found that higher funeral fees are more common in areas where residents have lower incomes and that the fees are lower where residents have high incomes. The investigation therefore found that a uniform funeral fee rate across the country, including Stockholm, would have positive distribution effects. At the top of page 21 of the report by the Constitutional Committee, reference is made to the considerations of the investigation. According to the study, it simply does not seem reasonable that the funeral fee varies between residents of different municipalities, especially as it is a compulsory fee. The financial and compensatory reasons are the main reasons why the investigation considers that Stockholm and Tranås should be part of the system of uniform funeral fees. We in the Center Party agree; Tranås and Stockholm should have been there. Mr President, I would like to I support the Center Party's reservation for a uniform funeral fee rate throughout the country. The rest of the committee's proposal, including the recycling of metal objects left in the ashes after cremation, I would like to endorse.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-283	Mr President, I would like to Today we Swedes have the right to a burial ground. But we have the right to that burial ground in the place where we're registered. Now, however, many people want to be buried somewhere else than where they happen to live at the moment. They may, as is often the case in, for example, Stockholm or other big cities, be raised somewhere in the country, and that is where they want to be buried. They may have as a tradition that the family is buried in a special place in the country or for some other personal reason want to be buried in some other place than where they are registered. The compensation for this must then be managed so that the place at which they are buried is reimbursed for the cost of providing the burial site for 25 years. We've had a system to deal with this called funeral clearing. That is what the government is now proposing to remove. We in the Liberals are afraid that it will reduce the driving forces around the country to ensure that there are burial places for people living outside the country. Freedom of choice is important throughout life. But it is also important after death to respect the last will of a person to be buried where he wants to be. Then there must be burial sites for those people to provide. It is not something that can only be obtained just when the need arises. It has to be prepared for it to work. The government hopes in its proposal that it will not get any worse if you remove the funeral clearing. All we can know is it's gonna get worse. It is to be hoped that there will be little difference and no sharp deterioration. But that cannot be ruled out in any way. All we know is it's gonna get worse. It can hopefully be marginal, but it can get worse than that. It has been looked at earlier in an investigation from 2009. They went through the system and found that the funeral clearance system worked essentially well. If it's already working well, there's no reason to fix it. Don't fix what's not broken. That is why we want to maintain the current system and freedom of choice. We want to ensure that there are proper burial sites around the country and that there is full compensation for it so that there is no shortage of burial sites. Mr President, I would like to I support our reservation No 1.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-289	Mr President, I would like to My mother, or grandmother, as you say here in southern Sweden, passed away when I was 16 years old. But I remember one more thing she said to me. It's something that Mom has then repeated. I wanted to work in LKAB's underground mine, i.e. underground. Mommo was against it because she knew it was pretty dangerous. She also had an argument for it: In time, you'll end up underground anyway. You don't have to be there while you're alive. I followed my mom's advice and started working at LKAB's railway yard instead. Where, then, has this anecdote to do with today's debate? Well, we're going to discuss changes in the funeral law, including the issue of metal recovery. One of the changes proposed by the government in its proposal, which we have dealt with in committee, is that metals that are not incinerated during cremation should be recycled. Today, these metals are instead buried in the ground, which is both a waste of our finite resources and something that can poison the environment around the place where the metal is buried. We have come a long way in terms of metal recycling in Sweden, as has been said. For the generations that come after us, it is an important issue. Metals can be recycled over and over again without deterioration or destruction of their functions. You can see how the mining industry looks around the world. It is not a completely clean industry, if you say so, in terms of conditions in the workplace or the environment. It is therefore beneficial for all of us if we can increase recycling. Even if we were to succeed in recycling all the metals we are picking up today, further mining is needed to meet the growing need. We all know that one day everything will end, including the metals in the earth. Mr President, I would like to With the bill, the government strives for a system that respects the deceased and believes that manual handling of the dust should be avoided as far as possible. Instead, metals shall be separated from the ashes by a mechanical process and then recycled. The proposal is also that the surplus after recycling should be added to the General Heritage Fund, something we consider reasonable. Mr President, I would like to Other things proposed in the bill, which the majority of the committee can also support, concern funeral clearance and the cost of training funeral agents. As far as funeral agents are concerned, they now bear their own costs and subsequently demand money for them. It is a system that we think should be changed. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I support the committee's proposal in the report and therefore reject all the motions.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-296	Mr President, I would like to We from the Moderates also call for the proposal before us to be approved. We think it is a good proposal. It is a bit exciting to listen to the recycling debate. My father-in-law started a recycling company in 1948. The Green Party was also mentioned. It was probably almost 40 years before the Green Party even came up with the idea of forming itself. I share the view expressed by many here. We're not going to bury metal in the ground. I read in Pia Hallström's motion that it was 20 tons a year that was buried. That's not good. Out of 1 600 tonnes of newly produced steel products, 570 tonnes come from the recycling of metal products. That's how it's supposed to be. Jonas Millard asked: Are we recovering too much? Yes, in a way, we do. We get to buy garbage, because we don't have enough mixed garbage to burn for district heating. This was a small digression from the funeral issue itself. However, as we talked about yesterday at our group meeting, this is a bloodless issue. There may not be much more to say about this. Emilia was into this too. The funerals have changed since before in the world. I was at my first funeral when I was seven. The whole class was there, because two classmates had drowned after jumping on ice. After that, I decided to always go to all the funerals, because it is so important to the relatives that you are there. It is terrible to be there, but the appreciation we received from Arne and Ruben's parents for being there has been with me my whole life. Previously, only one day was played or Lovely is the earth at funerals. Today you play Prince, Beatles, Dire Straits or whatever. I think it is time we looked at this. We from the Moderates are satisfied, and I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-304	Mr President, I would like to Creating functioning recycling structures is crucial if we are to build a sustainable society in the long term. This applies generally, and this applies to a great extent, of course, when we talk about metal recovery – not only because metals are a finite resource and because mining risks creating large wounds in nature, but also because it is so much more energy efficient to recycle metal than to be forced to break new ore. The clearest example is aluminium. There we have 95% more energy efficient handling if we recycle than if we produce new aluminium. But energy efficiency is also high for other metals. For iron, it is about 75 percent less energy consumption if we recycle iron instead of having to break new iron ore. Metal recycling is therefore also a major climate issue. For every tonne of metal we can recycle, we reduce carbon dioxide emissions by ten tons. Then someone asks: Can it be about as large amounts of metal as we manage to recycle with metal residues from cremation ash? Yes, the calculations show that many small streams apply here too. We are talking about 20 tonnes of metal per year, which today, according to the current burial law, is forbidden to recycle. With this proposal for a decision, we are enabling recycling. This, of course, is by no means the solution to the climate issue itself, but it is a small important step in the right direction. I am therefore pleased that we actually have seven environmental parties in Parliament on this issue. There are seven parties that support the government's bill. At the same time, I regret that the Swedish Democrats do not deny themselves. They refuse to agree to this, and they refuse to have an environmental and climate perspective on the issue. They say that we are pushing recycling too far, and they question that methane decommissioning would in some way be a problem for the climate. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-308	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help thinking about one thing when using this concept and saying that there are seven parties standing up for the environment in this House. These are issues that I feel you should problematize more than the Green Party does. I may have rallied to some extent when I thought that it was an environmental party that, on a bad day at work, was given the responsibility to write the very part of the bill that is about us to regain ourselves even on the day we die and cremated. However, I have to ask whether there are no question marks on the part of the Green Party on the ethical aspects of dealing with this. Could there not be value for some people in being buried with the parts of the body that have been given, such as gold teeth, rings, and other accessories? I think there are people who appreciate being buried along with this.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-310	Mr President, I would like to It is obvious that Jonas Millard has not read the bill in all its parts. If he had done so, he would have seen that the investigation that preceded the proposal for a decision has highlighted both environmental and ethical perspectives. The investigation notes that it would be more reverential to take care of metal objects and allow them to return to the cycle. This is something that the Cemetery Administration in Stockholm has also taken on board in its referral. They say that today's perspective is such that many people working in cemeteries see it as a health and safety problem that they are forced into a management that is known to be unsustainable. It is therefore an ethical issue to achieve effective recycling. The Swedish democrats not only miss the environmental perspective; they also miss the ethical and occupational health and safety perspective.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-313	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, we make different assessments. This is not the first time the Swedish Democrats have made different and different assessments in relation to the Green Party. It has happened before, and it will certainly repeat itself several times. I do not share the view expressed by Niclas Malmberg that it is, for example, more unethical to have a human handling of the body after death. I don't know if I could really say that I think it's more ethical to be handled in a mechanical and industrial way after you've died than that a human hand handles the body. I may think the latter is more human. It testifies to more humanity and higher ethics. When it comes to the major environmental issue that is being raised here, I am thinking of a debate that took place a few years ago – I think it was in 2007 at the latest – where, among others, the Green Party was involved in taking steps to ensure that cows emit certain gases. It was thought that it is something terrible and something that we must do something about in our future. I believe that this is a matter of a similar nature. I don't think our dental gold is extensive enough to really be a matter of destiny for our future. This is an ethical issue and an issue in which I think the Green Party and other parties are making a completely wrong assessment. I think we deserve to have a dignified funeral, and I do not think that this new proposal will get it.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-317	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Jonas Millard that this is primarily about metal fittings from coffins. There is nothing unethical about recycling this in any way, but vice versa. As the Stockholm Cemetery Administration points out, many people working in cemeteries feel it is an ethical problem and a work environment problem that they must not recycle the metal but must deposit it even though everything suggests that it is better to recycle the metal from a long-term sustainable perspective. It is some sort of home-made ethics that the Swedish Democrats are engaged in here. If, instead, you had taken note of what the investigation has highlighted and what the consultation bodies have liked about the investigation, you would have landed in the perspective that it is more ethically correct to run the recycling process and allow for a recycling that is unfortunately banned today. For the Green Party, it is obviously a starting point to get recycling started as soon as possible. As I said in my speech earlier, this decision alone does not create sustainable development. But we must in all respects create a development that goes that way – many streams small! We need to reduce emissions. Jonas Millard points out that there would be some kind of myth that methane departure is a problem. That is not the case. The Swedish Democrats are obviously a climate-denial party. They do not take climate change seriously. Jonas Millard tells me he's worried about what happens after his death. The great concern that I think all of us share is about how the climate issue will turn out in the future. We must contribute in every way to reducing emissions. This is a decision in the right direction – a decision that leads us to reduce emissions by 200 tonnes a year. Wouldn't we? I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-HriNTVtwUk3xKCJGhxZhQ6	Mr President, I would like to In the current case, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes that the Parliament adopt the Government's proposal for legislative amendments necessary to implement the EU's directive on the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds from crime in the European Union. The Directive is due to be implemented by 4 October this year. The Committee on Justice also proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for increased possibilities to confiscate the exchange of criminal activities in the case of crimes related to organised crime. The proposals mean that the possibility of confiscation does not only concern the exchange, or in other words what constitutes the gain, of a concrete crime. The possibility of confiscation should also apply to the exchange of an undetailed criminal activity, and this possibility of so-called extended confiscation is extended to more crimes. An extended confiscation order shall be available for all offences which have four years' imprisonment or more on the scale of sentence and which are such that they can provide an exchange. In addition, extended confiscation may be decided in the case of crimes that have two years' imprisonment or more on the scale of the sentence if the offence has been part of a crime that has been committed in an organised form. Finally, it is proposed to extend the scope for confiscation even without connection with a conviction, and some adjustments are made to the possibilities of recognising and executing confiscation decisions from other EU countries. It is good that the government has put forward the proposal for increased confiscation possibilities. The proposals increase the possibility of effectively combating serious crime, not least organised crime. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention a little more in detail that, among the new crimes that may result in extended confiscation through the four-year rule, there are data breaches, the exploitation of children for sexual posing, the taking of bribes, the giving of bribes and certain cases of child pornography offences. In the case of confiscation without connection with a conviction, I can cite the example that if it is clear through the death of the criminal or by a prosecuting prescription that the sentence can no longer be imposed on his or her criminal offence, a confiscation action must nevertheless be able to be examined if a confiscation order has been served within one year of the occurrence of the circumstance which means that the sentence can no longer be pronounced. Finally, I would like to point out that there is no follow-up motion on the matter, but a joint special opinion from the Moderates and other alliance parties. In both this and previous legislative cases, the Legislative Council has pointed out that confiscation regulation is characterised by inconsistencies and a lack of systematics. This was pointed out by the Law Council of the then government in a legislative matter as early as 2005. The Legislative Council has again stressed in this legislative case that there is a need for a thorough review of the confiscation provisions and that it should be initiated without delay. We share the view of the Law Council and therefore believe that the Government should take steps without delay to launch a thorough review of the confiscation provisions. As the Government has noted, such a review does not, of course, fall within the scope of this legislative case. We will therefore follow the issue and reserve the right to come back in another context if the government does not take steps to now review confiscation legislation. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-331	Mr President, I would like to I will not extend the debate very much. I would like to support the proposal in the report. These are good proposals which, above all, strengthen the fight against organised crime. For several years now, we Swedish democrats have been making proposals which deal with the issue of confiscation, both under the previous government and under that government, particularly with regard to the issue of organised crime. Extended confiscation today has a limit of six years, which with Swedish punishment is a fairly high limit to have. It is quite rare to reach those levels of punishment and thus to use extended confiscation. It is therefore a good thing that the limit should now be reduced by two years to four years in general, but above all that the limit should be reduced to two years for organised crime. It is extremely important to access the assets of organised crime through the criminal activities they are engaged in. If we beat the bones of organised crime better and gain financial gain, we also protect society better from the effect of organised crime on social development. We are making proposals every year to reform the approach to organised crime, which is not within the framework of this report but which is closely related. In the draft legislation that we call 'Participation in a criminal organisation', we believe that we should look at and investigate more closely whether we can be inspired by US legislation in order to tackle organised crime. It is through this proposal that we have been working for several years now and calling for it to be made easier with confiscation. We think that these are good steps forward – both the reduction in general to four years and the reduction to two years for organised crime. As the committee and the Moderates have said here, we look forward to a revision of the confiscation rules so that good and coherent legislation can be put in place in this area.
i-Jd3GWLH9mGYcn4mAV8Kday	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Justice, on a proposal from the Government, proposes that a new crime be introduced into the Code of Criminal Procedure: illegal use of identity. The Government's proposal is based on the investigation Strengthened criminal law protection of property with a complementary memorandum on illegal persecution. The proposal has not been rejected by any consultation body. To be punished, a person is required to pretend to be another person by illegally using that person's identity data, thereby causing injury or inconvenience to him or her. The offence of unlawful persecution shall also include acts which constitute unlawful use of identity. Mr President, I would like to About a year ago, a good friend of mine received an email saying that he had taken out an insurance policy that he had not signed on a car with a registration number he did not recognize. Someone had stolen his identity, and he is far from alone. This is a problem that has increased apace in recent years. In 2014, 67 000 ID breaches were reported. In 2015, approximately 75,000 people had their identity hijacked. In the first two months of this year, the number of notifications increased by 52 per cent compared with the same period last year. It can be from receiving a message about a phone you did not order, that something signed a subscription in your name, that someone bought goods in your name or that someone ordered a bank card or took a bank loan in your name to someone hijacking your house and selling it, and that after sales you have a tax debt of 500 000 SEK, which happened to a family last year. In the early 2000s there were between one and six teams each year. Unfortunately, the number continues to increase. The enrolment authority shall inform the owner of a property if a title has been granted to the acquirer. But even if information comes, the damage may already be done and large loans have been taken on the property. Not only does this cause financial problems and inconvenience, but it is also a very serious violation of privacy. Sometimes it is done in jokes, but most often it is for deceptive purposes. But as I said, whatever the reason, it causes a lot of trouble and creates insecurity. There is an exception to the criminalisation. If it is clear from the context or from other circumstances that the person to whom the identity data appear cannot be the person to whom the identity data refer, the propriety of giving the impression of being fulfilled is not fulfilled. For example, the identity data of others are often used in satir or parody, but it is generally very clear that it is satir or parody. Such cases are not liable to mislead or harm. They can hurt, but it is often that they are slanderous, and then it is other parts of the criminal code that fall in. If you're going to criminalize a behavior that hasn't been punishable in the past, you need strong reasons. But in this case today's technological development makes it necessary. Pretending to be someone else is much easier when most things happen via the Internet, perhaps using mobile phones that can be difficult to track. A change in legislation must be compatible with the form of government and the protection of human rights by the European Convention. Balance must always be maintained. However, this legislation strengthens the protection of personal integrity. That is why the amendment we are now making to the Criminal Code is important. It won't solve everything. Legitimacy needs to be made more secure, and systems of Internet commerce need to be better secured. But we close a gap in the legislation so that a person can be convicted of the crime illegal use of identity. The hijacking itself is a crime. The offence of unlawful persecution shall also include acts which constitute unlawful use of identity. It is also a long-awaited change. Those who are subjected to harassment, for example, by someone ordering goods in their name, which, while coming to the right address and not causing financial damage but causing a lot of problems and violations, can get redress through the fact that the perpetrators can also be convicted for unlawful use of identity. Mr President, I would like to As I said, long-awaited legislation is in place. In these words, I would like to support the committee's proposal in report 29.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-346	Mr President, I would like to For more and more of our everyday lives, we are online, both in our work and in our free time. For example, we collect information, move on social media, declare, buy things – yes, the list can be made endlessly over things for which it is required today to move on the internet. The advantages of being able to easily do all these things from home, on a computer, iPad or mobile phone, are many. Through the Internet, the world has opened up in a very positive way for many. With our constant connection, however, there are also certain risks. Unfortunately, the anonymity on the Internet gives people who try to exploit, deceive and harm others who use the internet opportunities to do so. Because much of our personal data is online, these people can use someone else's identity data to buy or order goods in their name, for example, or otherwise deceive the person whose identity has been hijacked, just like the previous speaker, Helene Petersson, said. Through the use of identity data, the criminal can also obtain the victim's passwords, codes and so on with a view to accessing bank accounts, credit cards or similar. These types of crime are, unfortunately, increasing rapidly, and new suggested methods of deceiving and deceiving people on the Internet are being detected all the time. Current legislation is difficult to cope with and urgently needs to be modernised. Mr President, I would like to The basis for today's report is an investigation set up by the Alliance Government in 2012, the so-called Property Protection Investigation. The investigation would look, among other things, at systematic crime, which could result in special privacy restrictions for the victim and could result in financial loss. In addition, the investigator would look at the possibilities of criminalising the unlawful use of other persons' identity data. The report was presented in December 2013, and a final proposal is now on the table of the Riksdag. We in the Moderates would have liked the proposal to have come faster. I know that other Members from other parties have also wanted that. In order to speed up and push the government to act, the Riksdag has also issued announcements to the Government. The result is that we can adopt legislation in this area today. It is legislation that can be of great help and facilitate the work of our law enforcement authorities and lead to severe penalties for online fraud and cybercrime. We in the Moderates had a point of view on the proposal in the report. However, we considered it to be a minor shortcoming. This refers to the fact that the proposal on illegal use of identity was to apply only to live persons. That may seem logical. In fact, however, there is a gap in the legislation from the death of a person until the death has been recorded in the register of accounts by the Swedish Tax Agency. According to the investigator, registration is made within a few working days of the death. All the same, problems can arise for an estate if the identity of a deceased is hijacked or exploited. As this does not happen to a great extent – at least what we know – we have chosen to do nothing more than point it out in today's debate. We assume that the government will pay attention to this if these situations prove to be a major problem. Mr President, I would like to With an increasing use of the Internet, we MEPs will also be required to pay attention and to modernise, change and adapt older legislation to today's realities. The reality is that fraud offences and cybercrimes have increased significantly in recent years. That is why it is good to get this legislation in place. Our authorities must be better at confronting the crime that is on the Internet and be given the opportunity to train their staff as well as the necessary resources to have at least as good technical equipment as the criminals. The Swedish National Audit Office recently submitted a report showing the obvious shortcomings of the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority in dealing with matters related to online crime. I was very distressed by the fact that the government's answer, in general, was merely that it should monitor the issue. Me and the Moderates are demanding more. The reality is that crimes on the Internet are increasing, and our authorities are not entirely up to that challenge. This report, which is one of the tasks initiated by the Alliance Government, is positive and good. Nevertheless, I would like to send a call to the representatives of the government parties in this House not only to monitor or monitor developments in online crime. Why don't you act? Give our authorities the right conditions and further effective legislation to be able to fulfil their important mission! It is our duty as elected representatives. That is our task as Members of Parliament. I also believe that it would be supported by many parties here in Parliament. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-357	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The first time I heard about the hijacking of identity and data, I was amazed that something like that was allowed, that one had to do it. In the following years – it has been a number of years since – the data on this has only increased, and I have marveled even more that you get and can do so. We have also been able to follow the problem of remedying this. I am therefore pleased that we can debate and decide on this matter in this House today. It is clear that there must be protection against unlawful use of identity. It's important. It is something that may not be the biggest thing legally but that many people in our country feel is deeply unfair when it happens. And they are not happier when they find that it is not the easiest thing to get at. I agree with the two previous speakers that the proposal would have been welcomed earlier. This proposal could have been made during the last parliamentary term. It seems to me that we are in agreement on this issue across the block. It's a shame it's been so long, but better late than never. Now it comes, and it is good that there is such broad support on this. I think it will make everyday life easier. It is not always that we in Parliament make decisions about things that really have a tangible effect in everyday life, but this probably has. Hopefully it will increase people's confidence in the rule of law when it becomes clear that this will be banned. It will also be easier to fix, impose penalties and access ID-encapsulation. My identity is my own. It's not someone else's. Above all, it must never be allowed to exploit and steal my identity and use it for a criminal purpose. As far as car signs are concerned, I remember when congestion charges were introduced in Stockholm. Then someone thought it was very fun to steal Peter Eriksson's car signs and drive here in Stockholm. His car was parked at home in Kalix. Peter had no idea that someone had kidnapped his car identity. I have great respect for political protests. You can think what you want about congestion charges. Nowadays, most people like congestion charges, but that was not the case at the time. It was a practical example of what id-jackings can mean. This is an excellent proposal. It is very gratifying that we are in agreement. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-365	Mr President, I would like to There is no generally accepted definition of identity creation or identity theft in Swedish law. This is, of course, a serious failure. Identity theft usually means that someone deceives a person or company to, for example, deliver goods to them or grant a loan under the impression that it is the person who has got his identity stolen who made the order or application. In some cases, the offender requests a change of address for the victim and thus has access to his or her mail. Then the credit card, eID or similar are used to buy goods or take out loans, for example. In these cases, it is usually only when claims for unpaid goods or repayment of loans arise that the person whose identity has been used discovers what has happened. While the victim lives in ignorance, goods of great value may have been made available or loans granted for considerable amounts. The victim often testifies that it can take a long time to manage and regain the trust of lenders and others if his identity has been stolen. Your whole life is turned inside out, and you feel like you're totally powerful. Clearing yourself from debts that have not actually been generated could become part-time – or even full-time – jobs spanning several months. Why, then, has identity theft become so common that today is not even something that many raise their eyebrows for? There are several reasons. Today there are great opportunities to obtain information about other people. Many of the information on address, social security numbers and the like is easily accessible and not infrequently public. This has made it easier to pretend to be someone else and to use his or her identity in different contexts. Purchases, loans, payments and contacts with authorities now often take place via the internet or telephone, which increases the possibility of claiming to be someone else. It's a combination of opportunities that play into the hands of criminals. I would say that identity theft is a new mass crime, despite the fact that so far it has not been clearly criminalised, and the problem has grown greatly in recent years. From official crime statistics, there is no indication of the number of identity creations or crimes committed by means of hijacked identities, but we know that this development goes hand in hand with the increase in the number of reported fraud offences. The number of fraud offences has increased from around 116,000 in 2010 to around 156 000 in 2014 – a significant increase. Data produced by the National Police Fraud Centre in cooperation with the UC indicate that the total number of frauds using hijacked identities is a large part of the fraud offences and relates to significant values. The stress and anxiety experienced by the victim cannot be measured, but it is not difficult to imagine how it feels to know that someone else claims to be you, orders goods and borrows in your name, and may take away confidence in using modern technology to live your daily life. This legislation is long awaited. It is a step in the right direction in combating the new type of crime that we have seen grow explosively in recent years, namely fraud. Money that is easy to earn is always popular with criminals. When it comes to fraud and identity theft, criminals can make big money simply sitting in front of the computer and with other people's identities ordering goods or deceiving loans. It is lucrative, it is easy to escape and the punishment is rarely particularly harsh. All the ingredients are here to attract both petty criminals and organized crime. As a pole ice I met put it: You have to be stupid in the head to rob a bank when it's so easy to make money at home in the sofa corner. That not only the fraud itself, but also the identity theft now will be criminalised is good. As a result, the victim of the identity theft is lifted, which is long awaited. In spite of the fact that it involves great stress and a lot of inconvenience, and for some a pure disaster, to be exposed to identity theft, it is not actually considered as a victim of crime today. Instead, the victim is the victim who has been misled and not the one whose identity has been used. The fact that the victim of the fraud is to be considered a victim of crime is obvious, and it is, of course, untenable that the victim of identity theft is not recognised as a victim of crime. That was one of the reasons for the alliance government set up this investigation, and that is something that we are changing today. That is good, and it is, as I said, long awaited. But it also asks questions: How could it have taken this government so long to get to grips with it? Almost two and a half have it taken to get a bill on the table after that the investigation was completed. How many people have had their economic lives torn apart during that time? one might wonder. It is good that the government is pursuing what the alliance government has begun, but intentions are nothing without the ability to implement. Words are good, but action is better. Prat in all honor, but rather results. This product is a good one and a step in the right direction, but in order for it not only to be a blow to the air, we must also ensure that the crimes are investigated and the perpetrators prosecuted. Do not let this become another law to which criminals shrug their shoulders! Let it become an effective tool for the police! It may be difficult to investigate and obtain evidence in relation to identity theft and fraud, but that is not impossible. What is needed, however, is to a large extent more knowledge from the police. Many of these crimes are committed electronically, and this requires that the individual police officers know what they are doing. In a way, it is classic fraud offences, but since the evidence is often to be produced by electronic means, the investigation work is different, and it requires IT-knowledge, a lot of IT-knowledge. Too often we can read in the newspapers about investigations that have been closed far too quickly and where the victim himself has produced the necessary evidence. Of course, it is good that more criminals can be prosecuted, but victims should not have to rely on themselves and their own ability to do the police's job. That's what the police are gonna do. The Center Party spends an extra 2.4 billion on the police in its spring budget exercise. Of these 2.4 billion, we want SEK 140 million to be invested in more training within the police to deal with the everyday crimes we see today, including fraud and identity theft. This, together with our proposal for 2 000 new police officers, is the beginning of being able to stop the wave of fraud we have seen washing over our elongated country in recent years. The first quarter of this year the police received as much as 25 000 reports of card fraud, which is a doubling compared to the same period last year. Even on an annual basis, the police have seen a runaway development of card fraud. They increased by 60 per cent from just over 30,000 in 2014 to about 50,000 notifications in 2015. These frauds are a reflection of the identity thefts that affect people across the country, but despite almost incomprehensible increases, the government gives no more than $283 million to the police in further additions. At the same time, more extra tasks are given to the police in the form of responsibility for border controls and similar tasks that suck the must out of the entire organisation. How can it be thought that it increases security? How can you think that 283 new million to a police organization that goes on its knees should be enough for something other than to polish a little on the surface? The Center Party sees these challenges. We have put in a higher gear to stop everyday delinquency and help a hard-pressed police organization get back on its feet a difficult reorganization. While the Center Party and indeed the entire opposition are putting in a higher gear, the government remains on second. It is not taking responsibility for people's security.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-389	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal. Most of it has been said about the seriousness of the fraud and that it has increased. I have an updated number. According to the police, 173,000 frauds under the Criminal Code were reported to the police only in 2015. This is done on the Internet and through card fraud, according to the Council's recent review of crime prevention. Card fraud is by far the most common category. Unfortunately, hijacked identities have become increasingly common, which criminals systematically use to buy goods and services over the internet but also directly in stores. There is also a clear link with organised criminal criminals. You have your own ID card factories. You send people into stores, where they claim to be someone else, with their own photo of an ID card and another person's name. The police's ability to prosecute these crimes needs to be intensified, but the important preventive work can take place earlier if internet companies, shops and banks tighten up their control also of ID documents, passports and more. Despite this development, the unlawful use of another's identity, which is harmful to the person or company, has not been a criminal offence of its own in the law. We Liberals exercised in November 2014 demanding that Parliament's hill make an announcement to the government to tighten the legislation regarding the control function of various agencies and organisations and also review the scale of penalties. When the Riksdag last year discussed a number of motions from the Liberals and the Alliance, we received approval for the proposal that the government should work against fraud and against systematic bluf factors. It sounds like we agree when you listen to Mats Pertoft, and we agree today. However, when the committee took the decision on an announcement a year ago, S, V and MP served on both fake invoices and identity thefts. If we had already agreed then we might have been able to push the government and the Justice Department a little faster. Mr President, I would like to Fraud is a very serious crime, but a lot of people get away, and it is important to lift up. This is an addition and an extension of the criminalisation area to the illegal use of the identity of others, and we hope that the signal value itself will deter people from committing these crimes, although I dare not see any precision or very sharp effects. What is also important is that with this change the individual's possibility of compensation is more legally secure and strengthened. Our analysis is that the likelihood is also that the applicability of the legislation will become more topical when it comes to pretending that you are someone else on social media than has previously been. Being subjected to fraud and cybercrime is not only a cost to society but also to individuals who are exposed. You have to call the telephone company, you have to cancel the subscription and you have to call the bank and close your account. You have to make individual police reports every time someone signs a subscription or buys or orders a product in your name in a store chain. Clearly, control must also be improved in stores. Control must be improved even at the bank when someone calls or comes in and wants to borrow money in your name with a fake ID card. But we also need to supplement the legislation, because there have been gaps in it, and we are doing so today.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-399	Mr President, I would like to Now we are going to debate the proposal in the report New sanctions following previous sentences. I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. The committee agrees on this report, but since I think it is such an important proposal, I would like to say a few words about it. For the alliance government, the credibility of the sanctioning system was very important. We saw that there were shortcomings, and that is why we wanted to remedy it. Therefore, in 2009, the Alliance Government appointed an investigation to carry out a complete review of the sanctioning system, which would apply to both adults and young offenders. According to the directives, the investigation would, among other things, provide for clearer regulation in the event of a recurrence of crime. The investigation suggests that recidivism should always be followed by a sharper punishment. It wasn't like that before. Too many times new crimes have been baked into a previous judgment, so-called consumer judgment. Simply explained, this has meant that a convicted criminal has been able to make new crimes completely free of charge, as the punishment for the new crime has been added to the previous sentence. These are the ones most people thought were completely wrong. This is the wrong signal for the offender, because the signal has been that you can do new crimes but do not get any punishment for it and can do it for free. There have also been the wrong signals to investigating police and prosecutors, because it has not mattered how good investigations they have done locally. Nevertheless, it has ended up with no penalty. What has been most serious is that it has given the wrong signal to the victim. The signal has been that there is no penalty for the offender when you have been subjected to assault or any other crime, but it has been added to a previous sentence. This has been very offensive to the victim. This was recognised by the Alliance Government, and so we wanted to change this. The investigation has now resulted in this report. It will be simpler and clearer rules. Any person who relapses into a crime must always be sentenced to a more intrusive penalty than the one who has previously been unpunished. It's really pretty obvious. Mr President, I would like to There will be a clearer distinction between crimes committed before a judgment and after a previous judgment. Crimes committed before a previous sentence should be called newly discovered crime. Crimes committed after a previous sentence, but before the sentence has been fully enforced, should be called new crime and treated as a relapse into crime. The main rule, then, is that new crime should lead to a new penalty. Only in exceptional cases shall a consumer judgment be used. This general rule should also apply to young criminals when it comes to youth services and care, and that is very good. You have to have early and clear answers to young offenders – we usually talk about that quite often. This is an important step in this direction. We must make it clear to young criminals that they cannot commit new crimes for free in principle, but that there will be a new penalty. Of course, the hope is that the young offenders will not get caught in crime. Mr President, I would like to Here I can also mention that the Alliance received an announcement in 2014 inviting the government to return to Parliament with a proposal to tighten the penalties for multiple crime. The effects of the proposal in this report will be clearer and tightened up in the event of a recurrence of crime. More people will be admitted to prison because of new crimes, which is an important sign on the part of society that those who relapse into crime time and time again will receive a sharper and tougher punishment. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a very good bill in the important work of reducing the recurrence of crime.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-410	Mr President, I would like to Again, I will remain relatively short. Like everyone else, we Swedish democrats think that this too is a good bill. Let me comment on what Ellen Juntti has said about multiple crime and the announcement. That's good. We tried feverishly to produce an announcement during the last parliamentary term to tackle what is called multiple crime. It was a question of extending additions to the scale of penalties and removing the overall assessment for certain cases so that there is a cumulation principle. But we spoke on deaf ears – before the then government, may well be added. It is therefore a good thing that a new sentence after previous judgment should be the main rule. There have been no follow-up movements. There are some doubts, but we will have to come back to them in the context of other cases, such as the possibility of deciding on consumer rulings if there are particular reasons. It may be doubtful when the previous sentence is closed juvenile care. It may also be doubtful to determine whether common sanctions other than those provided for for the offence. There will again be talk of multiple crime. It's a chapter in itself. Maybe it should be dealt with together. There are some doubts in the bill as well. I intend to address one aspect which is currently under § 4 but which will fall under § 5, namely offences committed under parole. I usually refer to an example from 2011. It was a mediated case. A man committed a gross child rape on a 12-year-old girl. The man had previously been sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of a 21 - year - old woman. In 2009, the life sentence he had received was converted into 26 years' imprisonment. He was paroled on 18 December 2010. Then he had a remaining sentence of eight years and eight months with a probationary period until 2019. Shortly after the parole, the man appears several times in the criminal record. He was sentenced to four months in prison for narcotics offences, among other things, at the latest prior to the rape of children. I think there was also a breach of the Knife Act. Nevertheless, he did not return to prison for the crime he was formerly convicted of. So he did not go in for the rest of the time, that is, more than eight years. He had to walk free. Because he was freed, despite the new crime, as it will now be called, he was given the opportunity to rape the 12 - year - old girl. In the bill, what is to be done with someone who has committed crimes under parole under § 5 ends with no changes in principle. I see that as a problem. I mean, there's got to be an investigation. This concerns the question of committing a crime on parole. There may be some exceptions when not going back to prison, such as driving five kilometres too fast on a motorway – it should not mean another eight years in prison. There must be some reasonableness. But committing drug crimes and crimes against the Knife Act, as this man did, and still getting free means that there's a gap in the law that needs to be plugged. It does not happen with today's bill, as I understand it. I see this as a problem, and I assume that we Swedish democrats will have to come back to it again. Overall, this report, as Mrs Juntti said, is a step in the right direction. These are good proposals that reduce the scope for, among other things, consumer judgment. That is why I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-416	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to debate the opinion Action plan to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing, i.e. review opinion JuU32. I support the committee's entire proposal for a decision. The European Commission has presented a broad action plan to further strengthen the European framework for combating terrorist financing. The action plan consists of three sections aimed at halting remittances and identifying terrorist financing, taking action against the sources of finance and pursuing foreign policy. These are important areas that are addressed. Mr President, let me say a few words about terrorism and the basis of terrorism. There are many terrorist groups in the Middle East, North Africa and in some parts of Asia. We in the Western world are not the worst victims of terrorism, although the worst acts of terrorism in Europe are currently in the spotlight and we in the Western world feel the main target. Over 90 percent of all terrorist attacks are happening in Iraq, Syria, Libya, Turkey, Nigeria, Somalia, Yemen and other countries. These are countries with a large proportion of Muslim population. There innocent people are killed every day – children, women, Muslims, non-Muslims and other minority groups. Since Wednesday last week until yesterday, over 300 people have been killed in Baghdad, many of them women and children. Sometimes it can be very complicated for us to understand what is going on in other parts of the world. In the Middle East and parts of Africa people are plagued by conflicts between different religious and ethnic tendencies. It is above all conflicts between fundamentalism and modernity that are being fueled by those in power in neighbouring countries and the superpowers who want to protect their own economic and other strategic interests and increase their influence. Battles take place both within and between states as well as between armed groups operating within and across the borders of countries. Death rates are devastating, and millions of people have lost their lives or their homes or live as refugees in other countries. Hundreds of thousands of them have applied for asylum in Europe. The fundamental problems in the Middle East and North Africa are a lack of democracy, human rights, freedom of expression, equality and equality. Mr President, I would like to I have my own experiences. I lived under dictatorship and occupation, and I had to start war when I was 15 years old. But I wasn't a terrorist. I took part in the liberation struggle. That is why the fight against terrorism and war should not be done only with armed actions and sanctions. We must go to the root by combating injustice and poverty. There are also other problems in these countries. Today there are some countries called failed states, decaying countries, where terrorists are breaking ground and growing. We have seen such examples in Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq, Syria, Libya and Yemen. In order to prevent terrorism in the long term, we must be involved in the prevention of the rule of law in the region. We must dare to question the ruling medieval structures and stand up for democracy and human rights. We must help the growing progressive groups of civil society and political organisations. Mr President, I would like to Behind every act of terror are people who plan and carry out the attack. Behind these people are also those who help make the attack possible. It may be the recruiters who give them the ideological training, brainwashing, and of course those who contribute funding and logistics around, such as information gathering, protection, safe housing, escape routes and so on. The recent terrible events in Europe and the events that happen every day in the Middle East make us aware of the terrible plans that terrorists can put into effect. Therefore, the Communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on an action plan to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing is important for combating terrorism. Money laundering and terrorist financing are international problems that pose serious threats to the financial system and its institutions. It is therefore important that there is well-functioning international cooperation to cut off the flow of money to terrorist organisations. Mr President, I would like to The government has taken several measures since it took office. It concerns the criminalisation of participation in, recruitment and financing of terrorist activities abroad. The government has doubled the resources of the national coordinator responsible for the prevention of violent extremism. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Financial Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Tax Agency to further develop and strengthen their cooperation in order to combat the financing of terrorism more effectively. The guidelines from the Commission are therefore in exactly the direction that the government is working on. I am in favour of the Commission's initiative to produce a broad action plan to further strengthen the European framework for combating terrorist financing, and I support the committee's opinion.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-431	Mr President, I would like to This case is a review opinion on the European Commission's Communication on an action plan to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing. It is one of the many different areas in which action can be taken if terrorism in the world is to be tackled. The measures proposed in the Communication can be taken to some extent within the framework of existing legal provisions at EU level. In some cases, further steps are needed with new rules, which are also mentioned in the Action Plan. The Action Plan consists of three main sections aimed at halting remittances and identifying terrorist financing, taking action against the sources of finance and acting on foreign policy. I can already say, Mr President, that I am calling for the review report to be added to the file. However, there are reasons to keep an eye on the issues. Generally speaking, recent attacks not only within the EU but also in Baghdad several times in recent times – most recently yesterday, as we have seen in the news – have demonstrated the need for the EU to work in all policy areas to prevent and combat terrorism. It is important not to be naive in some of these policy areas, where there are, in the first place, completely different issues in focus. It is quite easy to ignore the risks that can be created by deciding on things that actually open up opportunities for, among other things, the financing of terrorism. The European Agenda on Security also refers to the need to take action against, not least, the financing of terrorism in a more effective and comprehensive way. It highlights the link with organised crime. It is now increasingly interwoven with international terrorism and fertilising terrorism through arms supplies, income from drug smuggling and the infiltration of financial markets. This is about funding in general. Daish – ISIL in Syria and Iraq – which is the source of most of the Al-Qaida-inspired terrorism in the world today, also has other sources of funding that will be partially knocked out by the military actions of the coalition in Syria and Iraq. This will mean that they will try to compensate themselves in various ways for the loss of access to, for example, oil wells and greater pressure on funding from elsewhere. A very large part of the financing of the activity and the actual implementation of the activity consists of foreign terrorist fighters, who in this area amount to perhaps 30 000 from more than 100 countries in the world. Their travellers are also to be financed, and many times it is others who also finance that travel. This, too, is an important part of the financing of terrorist activities, but it is on a small scale and difficult to access because it is, as it were, carried out under the radar and refers to such small amounts. This travel takes place primarily through self-financing, which is the dominant method. You get money yourself in different ways, legally or illegally. Secondly, there is the funding from a third party, which may be a recruitment network that takes the form of a non-profit organisation or something else. In both cases, as I said, the amounts are very small, which prevents and complicates effective policies and operational efforts to limit these financing flows. This is a major challenge with the risk of consequences for others, namely ordinary people who suffer from unnecessary and burdensome controls and the like. L egalt acquired assets can of course be savings, salary income, loans from relatives and acquaintances or income from the sale of property, as is the case. One problem in this context is that travelling from European countries to Syria and Iraq has been quite cheap, which has reduced barriers to travel and made funding lower and more difficult to detect. For these reasons, it is easier to discover whether the funding is from other parts of the world, such as Asia. There is a link here with not only organised crime but also crime at individual level by committing embezzlement, tax offences, abuse of state benefits and perhaps robbery, even if there are other methods, but also fraud using falsified documents and identities. We touched on such a matter when we debated here earlier. All of these make the problem multi-phase and require action, not only at national and EU level, but also at international level. It is also pointed out in the European Agenda on Security and elsewhere how important cooperation is at international level. If we regulate our conditions here in Sweden and within the EU, we do not reach the rest of the world. For cooperation to work and for the use of high-quality intelligence information, which in some cases could also be used as evidence, extensive work is required in other countries of the world. There, the EU and Sweden can contribute, and this is also highlighted in this action plan. I can say that there are many things proposed in the action plan. I may not want to list everything, but I can mention something that I think is particularly important. It is a question of virtual currencies. This is something that has been sidelined by the regulations that have existed in the past. It is now proposed to extend the scope of the 4AMLD to virtual currency exchange platforms. It is proposed that in the future, after consideration, it may be possible to ensure that it includes suppliers of virtual currency wallets. Even among law enforcement authorities in Sweden – in this case, I am thinking specifically of the Ecocrime Authority – there is information that terrorism is financed through virtual currencies. It has not been brought to this attention in the past. I think it is very positive that this is happening now. Then, of course, there is a need for increased cooperation in very many respects between organisations, law enforcement authorities and countries in the world to achieve an effective system to access the financing of terrorism but also terrorism in general. More specifically, when it comes to the committee's position, I think it is positive that we agree on many good things. There is an urgent need to strike a balance between counter-terrorism and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, not least the protection of privacy. Rules against terrorism should be as effective and accurate as possible and to the greatest extent possible affect ordinary, decent people. That is why the committee's position also points out that it is important that legitimate transfers are not made more difficult than necessary. There can be trouble with the regulations that exist today, and regulations may not be perceived as being motivated by those affected. Finally, I would like to point out that companies can be used as a platform for criminal activities and money laundering, also to finance terrorism. It is something that is also a trend. It was noted at the end of 2015 that Daish/ ISIL, via social media, called for funding through companies. Within the EU, work is under way with single-member private limited liability companies known as SUPs. The aim is to facilitate the creation of private single-member limited liability companies. As the proposal has been put forward, it should also be possible to come from third countries and form companies in the EU. It's an obvious risk. One should be very careful in the further work. Finally, I would like to say that it is important to have access to intelligence information in order to be able to take preventive action or to proceed in criminal investigations. Access to evidence that can lead to prosecution is also required. There, we have moderated to point to this with signal reconnaissance as something very important for the Security Service. I ask the question: what is the government going to take for further initiatives, on the one hand, with regard to the financing of terrorism and, on the other hand, with regard to the problem in general?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-456	Mr President, I would like to As we have previously stated, this is a statement to be added to the file. However, I have commented on this in previous debates, and I would now like to comment on something that I find rather paradoxical in the discussions on the work against terrorism at European level. It sometimes becomes counterproductive when the EU is going to do things or when it refrains from doing things that are quite obvious. One thing that may not be directly related to the financing of terrorism is the visa-free treatment of Turkish citizens. Just recently, we were able to read a report showing that the risk of terrorism is increasing if Turkey has visa-free access. This is no wonder to imagine, but yet too many parties seem to support visa-freeness. Our party is probably the only one who does not want to see freedom of visa for Turkey. Visa freedom for Turkey is therefore directly counterproductive if we are to combat terrorism, not least in the light of the discussion we have had about the use of Swedish passports, which has been very attractive. If Turkey's citizens are now granted visa-free access to the EU, their passports will also be attractive. They will become part of this trade and will be used, among other things, for terrorism. This is extremely counterproductive, but there is no other party in this House that opposes visa-free travel for Turks. This is what the EU is now trying to push through despite the obvious risks and disadvantages. Another example is the smuggling of human beings into the EU across the sea. I have mentioned this before too. Not only is the EU passive here, but it is also an active part of the activities of the refugee smugglers. They are involved to the extent that the smugglers of refugees call the Italian coastguard or Frontex before sending boats of immigrants to Europe. They tell us where their boats will be in two hours. This is what they do while the boats are still on the mainland. Then the EU, the Italian border guard, Frontex and so on, foolhardy enough, go out there and pick them up and take them to European soil. The EU has thus become a lucrative part of the activities of the refugee smugglers. Thus, while talking about the desire to take action against the financing of terrorism, it is an active part of it. You're a taxi business for the refugee smugglers. Who, then, are the refugee smugglers? It has been reported several times that the Islamic State and other jihadist groups are earning large sums of money precisely from the smuggling of refugees across the Mediterranean. A report has shown that IS makes somewhere between 22 and 55 million dollars a year smuggling antiques, making somewhere between 168 and 228 million dollars through taxes on small businesses in the areas under its control. This compares with the $323 million that IS and other Islamic groups or terrorist groups benefit from smuggling across the Mediterranean. If you put it in relation to the other income that IS has, you find it to be a significant proportion. It may even be the biggest thing today, because their oil exports are said to have decreased quite drastically with the military efforts against those that have taken place recently. So smuggling is perhaps one of the largest sources of income for IS, and what is the EU doing about it? Absolutely nothing! It continues to rigidly look at old conventions on search and rescue or help in distress. They came in the 1950s or 1960s to help another fishing boat that was in distress – not to be part of terrorist and smuggler activities. But no one is doing anything about this, either this government or the previous one. This becomes extra mt counterproductive. Why is nothing done? Why not follow Australia's example with pushback? Why is it allowing the EU authority Frontex to become part of the activities of the refugee smugglers and thus to fund terrorist organisations? This is directly counterproductive, and there is no one in this House who seems to want to do anything about it, which I find remarkable. This is something that we will continue to raise in this House and in other appropriate contexts, including in the European Parliament and in other international associations. We must revise the rules for search and rescue as well as maritime laws and other things to stop this lucrative smuggling that benefits the terrorists.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-464	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin my speech by thanking my colleague, Mr Arhe, for his introduction. No one else has mentioned his efforts to broaden his perspective and to think about where most terrorist acts are actually carried out, namely in Africa and Asia. It is not in Sweden, fortunately. We can be very happy and grateful that Sweden is not the main goal. When we talk about terrorism, it is other countries that bear the great burden. On the other hand, a great deal of funding comes from the industrialised world. I cannot say how much is coming from Sweden, but that is precisely why the European Commission's action plan is good. Without money, there would be much less terror in our world. It would not be completely gone, but without funding, most terrorist organisations would not make it. It has become much more complicated since, for example, the 1970s. At that time, it was in Europe that terrorist organisations carried out bank robberies to finance their activities. We do not see much of that today, at least not in the industrialized world. Now there are much more international currency transactions and company formations. There are several speakers who have touched on those pieces before. It is very important that we prevent this. At the same time, it is important that we safeguard respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and the protection of privacy. I would like to take this opportunity to send a thank you to the negotiators of the Swedish Government in the European Union, who are doing a magnificent job of balancing this. Sweden has a much stronger respect for these rights than many other countries. When it comes to such international agreements, Swedish participation in the negotiations is incredibly important for there to be a balance between tough measures and respect for privacy and for human rights and freedoms. What I have seen so far from the Swedish Government's efforts makes me want to give the government a great deal of credit. For example, the fact that tax havens can be used for financial terrorism is insane. The Swedish governments, both present and past, have done much to force the opening of tax havens. Agreements are made with most people regarding the exchange of information. But that fight is not finished until all tax havens have been forced to open their books. The Panama scandal shows very well how much needs to be done here. These are important pieces of the puzzle in the fight against terrorism. It is also about what several people have been talking about, namely virtual currencies such as bitcoin. In the beginning bitcoin was almost launched as a freedom revolution. I was already quite hesitant about what the freedom revolution really consisted of. Time passes, and you can follow this bitcoin thing. Then you see that freedom seems to consist mostly of drugs, weapons and terror. I don't give much for that freedom. It'll be a playhouse for criminal forces glued to a label of freedom. It is very important to understand that currencies like bitcoin, without any official control, are a danger. Overall, this is a very good and well-balanced action plan. I am glad that we can make this decision today.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-471	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I raised the problem of the EU allowing and also actively supporting the financing of terrorist organisations by allowing the EU authorities, among other things, to be part of the activities of smugglers and hence terrorists. This is happening from different countries around the Mediterranean. It is from Egypt, Turkey, Libya and so on. My simple question to the Green Party is: Does the Green Party believe that the EU authorities, and therefore taxpayers in Sweden, among others, should be involved in financing this and making it easier for smugglers and hence terrorist activities? It is a business that, according to reports and reports, seems to be making a huge amount of money. Maybe it's their most lucrative business today. I don't want the Green Party now trying to talk this off by talking about asylum rights here and there. My specific question is not about the right of asylum. My specific question is: does the Green Party think that something should be done about this from the EU side, and hence from the Swedish government's side? Should the EU be pushed to ensure that the smugglers are combated instead of helping them, as we are doing today? Does the Green Party believe that Frontex should behave as it does today? I visited Frontex a few years ago – I think it was a year ago. They told us that 90% of their resources are currently going to carry migrants from smugglers to the EU. Does the Green Party think that's right? If not, I wonder: is the Green Party going to work to ensure that the government of the European Union does something about this situation?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-475	Mr President, I would like to Frontex's cooperation with traffickers is not something I know of. That is why I cannot comment on it. However, there is something that we in the Green Party are pushing and which we think is important. It is a question of Frontex having a mission to protect human rights and the right to asylum. It is part of the EU's mission in this regard. If this results in saving people from drowning in the Mediterranean, Frontex will carry out its mission well. I want to ask Kent Ekeroth a question. Does Kent Ekeroth think that Europe should stand by and watch the smugglers' boats with thousands of people – women and children – sink in the Mediterranean? You're supposed to sit next to me in cold blood and watch? Is this the right thing to do? Is it the policy of Kent Ekeroth and the Swedish Democrats to stand by and watch these people – women and children – drown?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-478	Mr President, I would like to There will certainly be talk of the right of asylum, even though this is not really the case. What the Green Party and many others must understand is that the reason why these boats are put in the sea is this stupid policy and this indifference. It is even deliberate action by the EU and parties such as the Green Party. The fugitive smugglers know that these people will get a ride all the way to Europe. They do not even have to try to smuggle people across land borders or through water borders. Just put them out there, even in Libya's waters. The EU will come and pick them up. If the EU had not done so, they would not even have tried that process. I got a question: is Europe just going to watch people die? Mats Pertoft should have listened to my speech. I suggested that we act according to the Australian model of pushback. You can see the boat. Then you send it back to the place where the boat came from. Then no one would die in the sea. These are boats that they themselves have put themselves in, fully aware of what it is like. It exploits credulity and, as it were, Europe's weakness. It is known that it will be transported to Europe. If you knew that you were being transported back to where you came from, this boating activity would end badly, and human life would not even be put at risk in the first place. What is happening now is that Europe comes and saves people from bad boats that they have deliberately set themselves in. We wouldn't even have to save them. They would not even have to be exposed to this risk if they were aware that they would never get over by doing so. It's the only reasonable way to save human lives. It is a question of not even being exposed to the risk, while ensuring that terrorist organisations do not have access to this money. However, the policy of the Green Party is totally counterproductive both in terms of countering the financing of terrorism and in terms of saving human lives. It's a wonder you don't realize it yourself.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-484	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party and the government have set up an investigation into legal ways into the EU. It would be best if we could find such roads, a more organised way, that would pull away the carpet for refugee smugglers. But it is no solution to do in the inhumane way that Kent Ekeroth and the Swedish Democrats are now proposing. They want you to stand by when these boats sink and watch children and women drown. Then it applies to Australia's model with pushback. This policy has been increasingly criticised in recent years. It is also very strongly questioned in Australia. Rather, the question is to find legal ways into the EU if you want to avoid migrant smugglers.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-487	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Kent Ekeroth, I will not dwell on the people who flee from terrorism and violence. One of the reasons why they do is that others go there and contribute to the practice of terrorism. It is this flow I shall dwell on. If we can limit it, we also prevent people from being forced to leave their homes and flee. There are many ruthless ways for terrorism to finance itself. It can also be about shoeing your own victims in different ways. In this case, it could possibly be seen as funding with human resources. Among other things, it is also a question of terrorist fighters from Sweden to a not insignificant extent. Otherwise it is money or values we can talk about, as in the bitcoin system. As far as respect for human rights is concerned, I am convinced that we are in complete agreement, so we do not need to talk about that any more. Mats Pertoft mentions tough measures. We agree that we think it is good that the European Union has an action plan and will take action in this area. But we also have a government in Sweden with the opportunity to take initiatives in this area. As Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Justice and the main representative of the government in our circle, what tough measures does the government intend to take in terms of preventing funding with money and values and preventing human resources in the form of terrorist fighters, Mats Pertoft? As I said in my speech, intelligence and evidence are required. How are we gonna get the intelligence, and how are we gonna get the evidence?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-493	Mr President, I would like to The government works all the time to look at what more can be done. A great deal has been decided in the Chamber this spring, and we see that it is on its way. We are tightening up the demands and have created the possibility to prosecute for terrorist travel. We are also looking at the financial pieces and how we can tighten these requirements so that we do not leak money there. The government has various measures under way, but I cannot mention anything specific today, Anti Avsan.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-495	Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that Mats Pertoft cannot say anything about what could be done today, not least given that Mats Pertoft has signed up for this debate. We have the opportunity to prosecute. We have had that for a long time, and we have pretty good legislation on this. The problem is, we don't have evidence. I do not believe that, in the long term, we can obtain convictions in either the finance sector or terrorism in general through social media, because they will learn to be more careful about posting such films. Then how are we going to get the evidence? We may have any means to prosecute, but if we have no way of securing evidence that leads to prosecution, it's worth nothing. Here's the intelligence information first. Our secret coercive measures are not enough, and in terms of international cooperation and the exchange of information they must be quality assured. A great deal needs to be done here. It is partly at UN level, but here the government can contribute. How are we going to get the intelligence and evidence that we can prosecute? I am thinking, not least, of concrete proposals from the Moderates, among others, regarding access to signal reconnaissance. Now that possibility is being cut off when there is a suspicion that someone has traveled to fight with a terrorist organisation. The possibility of getting information about things that can lead action is actually worse today than it was before we decided on the legislation on terrorist travel.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-501	Mr President, I would like to It was in order to find broad solutions on these issues that we made a cross-block agreement last winter that among other things Anti Avsan's party was behind. The government is now working on implementing this, because when something is agreed it will be implemented. The next step will be to move forward, but first we will implement all the pieces contained in the agreement. Then we can see further, because there are different pitfalls in this too.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-503	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal to add the opinion to the file. I will not devote my speaking time to refugee policy but to the financing of terrorism. Let me take up where the line between Mr Avsan and Mr Pertoft ended and note that it is remarkable that the representatives of the government come here completely empty-handed and unanswered. Arhe Hamednaca speaks creditably of the National Coordinator, but it was the Alliance Government that appointed the National Coordinator. The criminalisation of terrorist travel took place following a decision by the UN Security Council. It is the only legislative decision that this House has taken after almost two years with this government. A single legislative decision has therefore been taken, namely the criminalisation of terrorist travel. No more decision has been taken to tighten up the legislation and be able to prosecute and investigate terrorist financing recruitment of terrorists. You say no to our pleas and motions that would strengthen the prosecution against crimes of international law and war crimes. You have said no to our proposal to double the capacity of the security unit against terrorism, Mats Pertoft. They are the ones who should be able to investigate, collect evidence and prosecute so that we can get more convicted for financing terrorism. The legislation in place since 2003 has led to a single judgment. In 2005, two people were convicted of financing terrorist organisations in Iraq. Mr President, I would like to It is easy to go up here and say that you agree with the announced proposals, but what does the Green Party think about signaling and secret data reading? We agree with the government that the issue should be investigated, but will Mats Pertoft speed up and support the introduction of secret data reading so that we can send in Trojans and reencrypt the information to access those who recruit and fund terrorists? According to the information provided by the Ecocrime Authority, there are currently some 61 cases where people may be suspected of having some kind of connection to terrorist financing. It is important that the regulations make it easier for the Economic Crime Authority and the Financial Police. There will be sensitive data that violates privacy. It is already announced in the letter concerning banking systems and large databases. We also have problems when it comes to merging registers, even among our Swedish authorities. It's not obvious. We will see if any sharp proposals are made to the House in the Fourth Money Laundering Directive, which is currently being prepared in the Government Office. It is only then that we will see what Mats Pertoft and Arhe Hamednaca are coming up with on the financing of terrorism. It is important that banks and exchangers have better cooperation with the financial police. It is important that the financial police are strengthened. Mr Anti Avsan pointed out that the virtual economy and bitcoins were a problem not only in relation to the financing of drug sales but also in relation to the financing of terrorism. It is also important that the government's anti-terrorist strategy is put into practice in such a way that it leads not only to cooperation between authorities but also to stronger legislation. With regard to the Act on the Travel of Terrorists, the Liberals have called for stricter penalties, not least when financing travel, not only general terrorist financing but also funding the journey of terror itself. Large-scale organisation and financing of terrorist trips, we have also called for the penalty to be higher for. Two years in prison, decided by the House a few months ago, is not enough. There is every reason to return to these issues, but it is worrying, Mr President, that the government parties are so passive on this important issue.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-516	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad asked me what the government is doing more. We are implementing the common strategy that we have agreed. There, the special criminal responsibility for terrorist travel is an important part. Last week, the government decided on the directives for the investigation of data reading, which is also a puselbit of this, and we are working on the pieces that we have jointly agreed on. Then it is clear that all parties now want to raise the various issues on which we did not agree. I have full respect for that, but I think the government is right to implement first and foremost what we have agreed.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-519	Mr President, I would like to Secret data reading is extremely important in preventing and preventing the financing of terrorism, and not only once terrorist attacks have been carried out. I am interested in what the Green Party thinks about the substance of the matter. Now it will be investigated, and the time horizon is as far away as November 2016, possibly a proposal at the earliest in spring 2018 and perhaps in late spring 2018 with entry into force at the earliest in autumn 2018. I want to know if the Green Party thinks it should stop at an investigation or whether they are behind the very idea of secret data reading. As Mr Anti Avsan mentioned, very few have been convicted of terrorist financing. I put it into practice, a single case from 2005. We have a proposal concerning this, which I have mentioned, namely the capacity of the prosecutor to investigate and prosecute. What do you think about that, Mats Pertoft?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-522	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Green Party is behind the investigation directives. The Green Party is part of the government, and when the government makes a decision, the Green Party is behind it. We are behind the directives on secret data reading. Personally, I think that an investigation that should be completed this autumn is quite quickly worked on such a complex issue. The Green Party is also behind finding those roads. Then, of course, we will defend the issues that we think are important, namely personal integrity and such pieces. With regard to, for example, the issue of financing and the difficulty of having people convicted, work is ongoing on finding those roads. As far as the resources for the prosecution are concerned, it is rather a budget issue, and I would ask to be allowed to come back to the budget.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-525	Mr President, I would like to Counterfeit food stamps, bribe a food inspector and bike theft are crimes that in the United States give more than a year's imprisonment. This is a crime that gives the U.S. police free leeway to go in and search the Swedish police's fingerprint records and in the future also in our DNA records. With a simple push of a button, the American police will be able to search our Swedish registers for crimes that are not criminal in Sweden. That is the government's proposal. Here you give a large and fine mesh to the U.S. police to go fishing in the Swedish data sea. Working with fingerprint registers is currently being done in the EU, and this has been done since 2008. Since 2011, Sweden and the United States have collaborated on fingerprint registers, but then Interpol has been used. Interpol has acted as an intermediary, and each case has been examined on a case-by-case basis. But today this is going to change. It will now give the US police a direct access to our Swedish registers. The government justifies this by making it easy and effective for the US police to search our Swedish registers. There is no other justification. What will also change is that there will be a spontaneous handover between the authorities. So you will be able to send different information to each other without anyone asking for it. We do not know what the recipient is saying on the matter, but spontaneous information will now be provided. And it will happen without taking into account how the data should be stored or how they should be removed. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has long criticised the Swedish police for not being very good at culling in our fingerprint registers. There's still a lot of work going on there. But who will the U.S. police really be interested in looking for? Will it be the environmentalist, the feminist, the African-Swedish or the Muslim? The United States will be free to choose for itself. The United States has one of the world's largest intelligence services. There are 16 different authorities working with intelligence, and all these authorities will have access to the Swedish police register. The USA also has the world's largest cooperation with other countries when it comes to intelligence, and they cooperate with states that Sweden would never cooperate with. We do not know what happens to our Swedish data when the US can now freely search our fingerprint registers. The government is selling our personal integrity to get a simplified bureaucracy. That's not good. Mr President, I would like to Today, we will decide on illegal use of identity, a great proposal that the Parliament will jointly put through. We were told by the government parties that there is a huge violation of privacy, and that is why we need a new criminal report on illegal ID use. There the government stands up and protects personal privacy, but when it comes to completely different issues such as fingerprint records, it has no problem taking steps away from the protection of personal privacy. We must not be naive. That is why I am calling for the proposal to be rejected and for the reservation to be approved.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-537	Mr President, I would like to Cooperation in the prevention and fight against crime is necessary. Sweden participates in extensive international cooperation to prevent and investigate serious crimes. The exchange of information is of the utmost importance in combating cross-border crime. These could include terrorism, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings or money laundering. An important starting point for Sweden is that an increased exchange of information across borders must be balanced by effective protection of personal privacy. Sweden cooperates with a large number of countries, especially within the EU, but we already have cooperation with the US today. The agreement that Parliament is considering today is an agreement to streamline the arrangements for the exchange of information but also to create a high level of privacy protection for the data transferred. The agreement thus provides an improved level of protection against what is currently in force. It may seem to be going a long way when you give each other direct access to their national fingerprint registers, but it is de-identified data. If there is a hit, an application must be made in order for the other country to have access to personal data and additional information, and it is the submitting country that decides what is disclosed. The proposal has been out for a referral. For example, the Chancellor of Justice expresses the view that it is a useful proposal to enable cooperation between law enforcement authorities, while safeguarding the privacy of the individual. The Swedish Data Protection Authority questions whether there are too many offences covered, as the limit is one year. But, Mr President, the current exchange between Sweden and the United States is designed in accordance with the Prüm Council Decision on cooperation between EU countries. However, that decision does not limit the offence to having at least one year's imprisonment on the scale of the sentence. On this point too, this agreement with the US is therefore more stringent than the exchange based on the Prüm Council Decision and also more stringent than the exchange of information within the EU. Both the Prüm Council Decision and the Agreement provide for the possibility of exchange in order to prevent criminal activities, i.e. work carried out on suspicion of ongoing criminal activities or suspicion of future criminal offences, i.e. intelligence activities. Another reason for approving the agreement is to better regulate the level of protection of personal data exchanged with the United States. The information currently provided to the United States is not covered by such a framework of safeguards contained in this agreement. These are rules on conservation and thinning, restrictions on use and records of data transmitted and received. So personal integrity is more protected by this agreement than by the exchange that already exists. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has expressed its views particularly on the protection of personal integrity, and the Committee sees no obstacle to the Committee on Legal Affairs' approval of the proposal. With that, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and reject the reservation.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-544	Mr President, I would like to After Helene Petersson's speech, I do not know if I have much to add. But, of course, I am in favour of the committee's proposal. In connection with this matter, when I was familiar with the rules that apply today, I was a little concerned. As the previous speaker mentioned, there are much fewer restrictions today. In the Green Party, we always protect privacy issues. That is precisely why I am very pleased with this agreement, because here it will be a tightening up. It could be said that we are introducing some order in the exchange of information with the United States, rather than it has almost been to exchange information a bit anyway. It is never good, especially if the security of the American computer system is taken into account, based on the rejection by the EU Court of Justice of their security systems. But it may be corrected. The most important thing is that we get things together. When it comes to, for example, the exchange of fingerprints, it is initially unidentified data that is exchanged. If there's a hit in the system at all, you have to move on. Precisely to comment on Linda Snecker's speech: it is the legislation of the submitting country that decides. It is not the U.S. legislation on coupons that decides, but it is Swedish law that decides whether something should be handed out to the U.S.. The same is true of the other parts. That is why this is a good thing. It will strengthen privacy and, at the same time, facilitate the exchange of information where the exchange of information is justified.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-548	Mr President, I would like to Since 1988, the Green Party has been exercising in parliament on personal privacy. The Green Party has proposed a crisis commission on privacy protection, renegotiation of framework agreements and information work with the US. You have exercised about an authority that should have a collective responsibility for the protection of the individual's privacy. That's a great suggestion. But that is no longer the policy of the Green Party. You've come to terms with the matter. My question is: why has the Green Party left the issue of personal integrity so important?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-551	Mr President, I would like to I can only answer Linda Snecker: that's exactly what we haven't done. As I have just explained in my speech – and as Helene Petersson has also explained earlier – the report we are discussing now, on the exchange of information with the United States, is a step forward in the protection of privacy. Today is much worse. That is why I am pleased that today, in Parliament, we can take a position on this issue and make this proposal. We will also continue to work on this issue, as well as issues that bring together authorities and so on. Let's see. We're working on it. There are proposals on such things that we may be debating here in the future. The policy of the Green Party is solid, and we fully agree in the government on these issues.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-554	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Mats Pertoft! With the coal and the sale of Vattenfall, the Green Party is failing. With regard to extended ID checks and the right of asylum, the Green Party is failing. When there is a crisis in your party, you dump the female mouthpiece, but the male mouthpiece will remain in place. The Green Party is not feminists, greens or refugee friends anymore. What's the next step? Is it taking away the environment and just the
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-557	Mr President, I would like to Although I do not really understand what this has to do with the exchange of information with the United States: We have a female party leader and have had it since the party was founded – in contrast to many other parties. Sometimes that person is replaced, you call democracy. As far as coal is concerned, we are working on it. We will see what support there is, among other things, in the Riksdag. We respect democratic principles and work on them. The Green Party will always remain an environmental party. We're just happy about others – after many years – also taking up that fight. We like to compete in that genre.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-561	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate the proposal on unemployment and financial assistance. The bill proposes a new provision in the Social Services Act clarifying the requirements for unemployed persons seeking financial assistance. The target group is unemployed people who are able to work and unhindered to work. According to the Government, the overall aim of the proposal is to speed up the employment and self-sufficiency of these people. We in the Left Party are critical of the government's proposals for several reasons. Our overall criticism is that the proposal tends to focus on unemployment being an individual rather than a structural problem. Furthermore, we believe that the proposal is superfluous and too detailed and does not make any concrete changes to the current regime. However, we also see that the proposal poses great risks of unnecessary regulation and sends out many problematic signals. We can all agree that the best thing for individuals, but also for society, is that people have the opportunity to provide for themselves. We do not need to discuss that part, because that is a matter of course. What separates us is how we view the road to work and our view of people and their abilities. What separates us is our view of the mission of social services. Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by stating that unemployment is a real problem and that strong action is needed to tackle it. These measures do not involve increasing pressure on the unemployed from the wrong point of view that the unemployed do not want to work. The best way to get people out of long-term financial support and unemployment is to create jobs. The fact that people who are unemployed, although unhindered to work, are at all a matter for social services is very rarely due to free will, but is all too often the result of what the Reinfeldt government managed to achieve with our security systems during its time in power. After the turn of the government in 2006, the then government collapsed rapidly and strategically important foundations of unemployment insurance. For example, the membership fees in the a-cash accounts rose sharply, the qualification rules deteriorated, the level of remuneration and the maximum daily allowance decreased and the basic amount was eroded. The numerous changes implemented by the Government of Reinfeldt combined meant that fewer and fewer people were covered by the unemployment fund. It has been a very effective way to pass on the cost of unemployment to local authorities by requiring people who were previously covered by unemployment benefit funds today to receive subsistence support. It has also been an effective way of placing responsibility for structural problems in the knee on individuals. We therefore think it is a good thing that the government, together with us in the Left Party, has taken some steps to restore decency to the safety net of social security. But that's not enough. I'm afraid today's bill is a setback. It is unfortunate that the government chooses to put forward this type of proposal in which the individual should be controlled for employment rather than focusing on what is the basic problem. Mr President, I would like to Let me go further with our criticism by stating that we already have today demands for individuals receiving financial assistance to be at the disposal of the labour market, which is reasonable and already being complied with. In the proposal, we can read that the requirements that can be imposed on the applicant for assistance have been developed through case law and preparatory work, as expressed in the General Council of the National Board of Health and Welfare. In addition, the requirements are historically closely linked to the requirements that can be imposed on the person receiving the unemployment benefit. Furthermore, it can be read that the Social Services Act does not, however, explicitly express the requirements that can be imposed on the applicant for financial assistance. Therefore, the Government wishes to clarify the legal text with reference to legal certainty and predictability. This is where it becomes clear that the bill is also about human views and ideology, and I am glad that I have the opportunity to debate it. These are important issues, and it is good that the dividing lines are clarified. When it comes to the role of social services, my fear is that the differences are greater than I had hoped. The reason why the text of the law does not explicitly express the demands to be made on the individual is that the intention of the Social Services Act is that people's individual needs should be the basis for decisions to be made. Therefore, the law is designed so that there should be a clear scope for the profession to make individual assessments to best support people in changing their own situation based on their own needs. It is a path that we have chosen with the realization that we all want to live good lives and that we will do everything in our power to get there. That is why this proposal sends out a signal that the government does not believe that people themselves want to be self-sufficient and that they themselves choose to live on the poverty line. It sends a signal that the government therefore considers it necessary to whip and control people in order to get them to work. This proposal sends a signal that the mission of the social services should go more towards controlling people than giving them tools to use their own resources. Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party are absolutely convinced that the road to employment is a well-functioning labour market and secure insurance systems. We are very tired of policies aimed at hunting people. We want a social service that strengthens people and doesn't spoil them. That is why I am calling for the whole government's proposal to be rejected. We obviously support both our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 1.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-580	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about a report, following on from the government proposal, which proposes changes to the legal text for unemployed people seeking financial assistance. Essentially, it is a clarification of requirements for the individual who already exists in the law to primarily meet their own needs. This provision means that a person who is unable to make a living but who is able to work is entitled to support if he or she is at the disposal of the labour market. But, of course, if you have acceptable reasons, you are entitled to support even if you are unable to take a job. It is proposed that this will enter into force on 1 July this year. Financial assistance is the ultimate safety net of our social security system. The right to assistance is based on an individual needs assessment. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's annual report on financial assistance from 2014, just over SEK 10 billion was paid in 2014, and it was approximately 4.2 per cent of the population who had to receive this support. Unemployment is the most common reason for seeking financial assistance. This development can, of course, be seen in the context of the dismantling of the transfer systems that took place during the eight years of the Alliance in power. That is where I share what the previous speaker, Mr Karlsson, said. We then saw a large number of people who were unemployed and who came to social services but had not previously arrived there. I'm on 4th chapter. Section 1 of the Social Services Act regulates the individual's right to assistance. In this context, it is important to point out that this is an individual assessment that is related to the need. The operations shall be designed in such a way that the individual is able to support himself as quickly as possible. In addition, social services have a duty to cooperate with other authorities in order to improve this assistance. What the government is proposing in the bill is that the requirements that already exist, which have been established over the years by various judgments and case law, should be clarified. A general provision is therefore proposed. It is still the social welfare committees in the municipalities that should be able to adapt the interventions to the needs. The proposal will clarify to the individual what is expected of him or her in the event of unemployment, as the requirements will in principle be the same when seeking financial assistance and unemployment benefit. It will also improve the predictability of applicants, and legal certainty will increase. In particular, the proposal will provide a better division of responsibilities between the social services and the Public Employment Service, as the target group is clarified. This means that the individual is primarily, if he or she is able to work and unhindered to work, to be available to the labour market. However, Mr President, this does not mean that those who are ill or in need of other interventions – such as work training or medical rehabilitation – should be forced to be at the disposal of the labour market. In this context, it is important to point out the importance of rehabilitation efforts in order to give the individual an independent life. There the law is very clear, and it is also clear that an individual assessment should be made. Being unemployed significantly increases the risk of mental illness in particular. The job stands for much more than just the economy; it also stands for one's identity, self-confidence and social belonging. Unemployment can even lead to premature death, according to scientific reports. Making reasonable demands on the individual is therefore a preventive measure to provide better conditions for health. No one is well off from being without meaningful employment. However, it is important to emphasise that you should have physical or mental opportunities to take a job. Bringing in aid without other efforts is fundamentally wrong. We know that you feel better when you experience a context in life. Finally, this means that you should be an active job seeker and registered with Arbetsförmedlingen. The Government believes that the requirements should be general. It is individual assessment that applies, and the social services in the municipalities should have the right to sharpen the design. However, as I mentioned earlier, the requirement to be at the disposal of the labour market may change if there is illness in the family or special reasons for the children. The children's perspective applies. I support the proposal in the committee's report and reject the committee's motion.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-591	Mr President, I would like to I have to ask you a question. Can you explain to me how your proposal will contribute to more people becoming dependent or self-employed, Mikael Dahlqvist? We know that these requirements are already being made but are not regulated by law. The reason they are not regulated by law is because we want individual assessments based on people's needs. You say that it will not be a problem if there are obvious reasons why you cannot work, but there are a lot of people who end up in this where it may not be clear right from the start. How will their needs govern future assessments?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-593	Mr President, I would like to I would really have to put a counter-question directly to you, Maj Karlsson. How would the proposal not lead to more jobs? What's the contradiction? I'm having trouble seeing it. Surely it must be reasonable and good to make demands on those seeking financial support. If they have the opportunity and the ability to take a job, they have that demand – of course, as I said in my speech, provided that they have physical or mental health. I can take an example from my municipality of residence. Five six years ago we began to ask young people who came to social services to be involved in some form of labour market policy project. We then saw that these people felt good about it. They grew, got up in the morning and could take the initiative. They also eventually gained the ability to get a full - time education, which they previously lacked. I don't understand why we should have an undemanding society. In addition, this provides clarity, not only for the authorities, but also – above all, as I see it – for the individual to know what demands and expectations are made of one, Maj Karlsson. It also means avoiding what is happening all too often today, namely that people end up between two chairs. It is now clear in this proposal that it is the responsibility of the social services and the Public Employment Service.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-596	Mr President, I would like to Are you seriously saying that it is unnecessary to receive financial aid today, Mikael Dahlqvist? After all, we have a rigorous control system with very strict sanctions against those who do not meet the requirements. Are you saying that it is unnecessary to receive financial assistance today? I would very much like an answer to that question. I also did not get an answer to my first question. These are rules that already exist. They are not written in the law, but they are practiced — no doubt about it. In fact, your proposal removes important principles in the work of social services by governing them in detail. How will it contribute to more people getting into employment?
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-598	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little worried when I listen to you, Maj Karlsson. I get the feeling that the Left Party thinks that it should not have such high demands on the person seeking support. That's the spirit. I'm not saying it's undemanding, but I wonder what the problem is. Yes, this is being applied more or less in social services today. The difference is that it's now coming up on paper. It becomes clear to the person seeking help, and it becomes clear to the administrator. It becomes clear to local politicians, and it becomes clear who gets the demand and responsibility. I can't see what's troubling it. If you read the whole report, you can also see clearly that it is still a general text. It is based on the basic foundations of social services, which is a framework law with individual assessment based on needs. I am therefore absolutely sure that the individual assessments will be applied as they are today. What we are seeing today, however, is, unfortunately, that too many people end up between two chairs because the authorities are a little pushing the problems between them. Social services sometimes push the problem to Arbetsförmedlingen, and Arbetsförmedlingen pushes it to social services. I think that this basically gives a clear leeway, and that is why it is a good thing. If it then generates more jobs, then we can discuss it, but I think it will give more people some form of employment. Hopefully they will then gain a strengthened confidence and be able to move on in life.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-602	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and Alliance Parties support the Government's proposal for amendments to the Social Services Act. The changes that Parliament today will approve provide a clear clarification of the requirements that already exist in the Act that the individual should primarily meet his or her own needs. This provision means that a person who is unable to make a living but who is able to work is entitled to support if he or she is at the disposal of the labour market. The work line is therefore even clearer in the Social Services Act. If there are acceptable reasons, the individual is entitled to support even if he or she is not at the disposal of the labour market. These requirements are not addressed to those who have a disability in the form of illness or the need for social or medical rehabilitation. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and the Alliance were well aware of the enormous efforts in the area of migration and integration that Sweden faced when more than 160 000 refugees came here in the autumn. For this, the Moderates and alliance parties took responsibility by agreeing on a number of necessary efforts to enable a temporary refugee break. For the Moderates and the Alliance, it was an extraordinary situation that we chose to take full responsibility for with the emphasis that the work line of course in such an extraordinary position should continue to apply. Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. Sweden needs a temporary refugee break. We are, of course, in extraordinary situations prepared to take responsibility when necessary. It is therefore important to have clearer requirements and to strengthen the work line even for those in need of supply support. We want to impose higher demands on new Swedes and on the unemployed in order for them to be able to receive compensation or benefits. At the same time, those who manage to find a job should of course be able to retain part of their remuneration. It is therefore important to increase the requirements and clarify them, including in legislation, so that more people have the opportunity to be part of the working community in order for Sweden to stay together even better. Today it looks very different in Sweden. Some municipalities work very actively to make demands, others make it less. Now it becomes even clearer when the legislation becomes the same for everyone. It must be enough to be unobtrusive or to have less demands. Now it must be equal requirements for everyone, regardless of which municipality you are in. Mr President, I would like to We from the Moderates and the Alliance parties support the Government's proposal and therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in that part.
i-fdf85b7848bb98b2-610	Mr President, I would like to The report is supported by a united committee. Negotiations on the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Kazakhstan have been ongoing for a long time, ever since 2011. The agreement is important from several perspectives – not least because it is actually the first agreement that the EU and its Member States conclude with a country in Central Asia. In addition, the agreement aims to strengthen existing economic relations between the EU and its countries and Kazakhstan and to strengthen human rights. This is extremely urgent when it comes to Kazakhstan. Sweden, like the rest of the world and the countries of the EU, has extensive trade with Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan is rich in raw materials and has developed its trade activities and focused on international trade agreements. This is, of course, extremely positive for Kazakhstan as well as for the rest of the world. However, the major problem in Kazakhstan is its lack of respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. In March 2016, Kazakhstan held an election to Parliament. The OSSE was in place to monitor the elections and noted that it could far from be regarded as meeting the OSCE principles of free and democratic elections. In Kazakhstan, the current President Nazarbajev has very great power and influence over how the country is governed. Kazakhstan became independent of the Soviet Union in 1991, and the current President is the only one that has existed in the country, Mr President. He has also managed to negotiate that he is basically president for life. In future elections, subsequent presidents can only be elected once under the law. I would also like to highlight some of the issues that mean that the principles of the rule of law and human rights do not work as they should in Kazakhstan, Mr President. Only the President, for example, has the right to dissolve Parliament. It is also only the President who has the right to initiate constitutional changes and to issue temporary constitutions, so-called decrees. In the past, there was a constitutional court; it has now been replaced by a constitutional council where only the President has the right of veto. For a new party to be registered in Kazakhstan, it must have at least 50 000 members and be registered in all its regions. The President also has the right to appoint and dismiss judges in both local and regional courts. According to the international corruption index, corruption is widespread in Kazakhstan. In the judicial system there is abuse of suspects as well as prisoners. I can say a lot more, but I'm staying with this. My hope and that of the committee is that the cooperation agreement with Kazakhstan will lead to positive developments in the country in terms of the rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy, Mr President. In this way, the citizens of Kazakhstan can have a better life, not only economically but also on all other levels.
