i-93c9d922cb64357d-2	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me I would like to begin by saying that both me and the Swedish Power Network and Jonas Jacob Gjörtler are all frustrated by the delays that have hit the Southwest link. As we all know, the delay is due to the failure of the supplier to complete the project in time. Jonas Gjörtler and I have debated this issue in this House on two occasions in the past, and my answers remain. Like the former energy minister and the previous government, I believe that the Southwest link should first be put into operation, even if it is delayed, and the effects of it are analysed before any market intervention may be relevant. It would be doing things in the wrong order to first intervene on the market and then wait for the launch of the Southwest link. In my previous replies, I have also mentioned that the long-term best measures to eliminate possible price differences between bidding zones are to strengthen transmission capacity and to provide better conditions for investments in new electricity generation capacity. What I would therefore like to add to my previous answers is that we now have a historic block-crossing energy agreement to lean against that provides the conditions for both investments in transmission and production. In the agreement, we agree to continue to develop the common Nordic electricity market and to increase transmission capacity, both within Sweden and between Sweden and its neighbours. The agreement also provides for investment in new electricity generation via the electricity certificates' ystemet, but also a better predictability for investment in other power types.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Baylan, for your answer! It is true that we have discussed this issue on a couple of occasions before. The background is the division into bidding zones that Sweden has been living with since autumn 2011. This means, in practice, that there are four different areas where the price of electricity can sometimes be different. We do not need to go into the whole complicated basis of what it looks like. In short, however, in areas where electricity generation is scarce and transmission capacity is limited from other neighbouring areas, there is a greater risk of higher electricity prices, and the reverse is true. In practice, this means that in the southernmost region of electricity zone 4, there is a higher risk of high electricity prices than in the rest of the country, and this applies to some extent also to electricity area 3. Part of the background to this is that production capacity has been decommissioned in the south. The closure of Barsebäck is the most obvious example when a large proportion of electricity production in the south ceased, which is fundamentally very unfortunate because it did not do what it should have done, that is to say, to expand transmission capacity. This was not a direct acute problem in terms of costs for those living in southern Sweden until electricity distribution one came into existence. It arose as a result of the fact that we had to deal with complaints from the Danes. When there was a power shortage in the south, the Swedish power grid chose to close the border with Denmark, not to send more electricity in that direction. This must not be done, according to EU competition rules. Everyone had to be treated the same independently of country, so a different solution had to be found. At that time, electricity distribution was the model that the Swedish power grid finally chose to proceed with. The electricity division creates a number of problems, and it has done so all the time, but the problems vary depending on other conditions, for example how much water there is in the warehouses up in Norrland and how much power can be produced. What do the weather and wind look like otherwise? How much electricity comes in from other energy sources such as renewables? How are the remaining nuclear reactors going at the moment? What does it look like in neighbouring areas even outside Sweden? There are a wide range of factors that matter here. The division is not the solution that would have been possible. It would have been possible to do so in other ways, which would not have affected consumers in electricity area 4. The distribution of electricity leads to higher electricity prices for both private consumers and businesses at times. The statistics show that this is not a constant problem, but it happens occasionally. For private consumers, it is a matter of a few hundred cents. These are not enormous costs, but in principle very questionable. This is a major problem for the electricity-intensive industry. There you have small margins, and you buy in electricity in the long term and at fixed prices. Even if the price differences are sometimes lower than you thought, you still have to pay the difference because you take up an increase for a possible price difference. This means that the competitiveness of the companies located in the electricity sector in particular is clearly deteriorating 4. This is entirely due to policy decisions to phase out electricity generation and a lack of consequential decisions to expand power capacity. The Minister for Energy and I fully agree that the most important way of solving this in the long term is to expand more electricity generation in the south and to strengthen transmission capacity. One problem, however, is that this is constantly delayed. My question is why the Minister for Energy does not want to do anything about the problem here and now.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-16	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, honourable Member, for an important discussion. As the honourable Member says, the Southwest link is delayed. The reasons for that are many. The supplier has not been able to keep what was promised. Another reason may also be the choice of another technology, which has proved to be more complex. I think Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler can agree that Swedish power grids probably do what you can to get it all in place. My hope, of course, is that the Swedish power grid will be able to get this in place and start the transfer this month, but it depends entirely on technology and how it all develops. This is always the case when choosing a different type of technology than the tried and tested one, and that is no argument for not doing so. One should be aware of this, and I also believe that the previous government was when, in common with the Swedish power grid, the decision was made to choose the model with buried cable. This may pose more challenges than the proven technology of transporting electricity in the air, which has been used mainly over the last hundred years in terms of internal transmission. Just as Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler says, it is clear that differences can arise. It is not only when we have debated and discussed this issue that the honourable Member has taken on board. It is in the interests of the honourable Member that he has been involved for a long time. I would like to quote the honourable Member from a debate in 2011 when the electricity division was decided by the Swedish power grid after – as Jonas Gjörtler says – pressure from the EU. I find it remarkable that attempts are being made to scare up the inhabitants of southern Sweden by exaggerating the effects. This is what Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler said in 2011 when the country had an M-led government that decided on the electricity division. What the honourable Member said was true then. I also believe that this is true today. It is important to remember this when discussing what to do about the problem. We share the view that, basically, electricity prices should be equal throughout the country. But with the rules and with the gaps in transmission capacity that exist, the previous government, as well as the Swedish power grid, felt that this was necessary and therefore did so. We are now working step by step to ensure that the transmission capacity is expanded so that differences between electricity prices in different parts of the country do not exist. In the cross-block energy agreement, which is supported by the Social Democrats, the Environment Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Centre Party, we clearly point out precisely the expansion and capacity both within the country and in relation to neighbouring countries to make the system much more effective. We will ensure that households and industries receive the electricity they need at competitive prices. This will have a long-term impact. Step by step, the government has tried to ensure the security of electricity at competitive prices throughout the country. We will continue to do so. We will present proposals to Parliament in accordance with this settlement. It will, of course, also be a question of strengthening transmission capacity. As Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler says, when we have the Southwest link in place, we can of course look at whether further efforts can be made to minimise the possible effects that this could have. However, I would like to return to what Jonas Gjörtler himself said in 2011 when this was introduced, namely that the effects should not be exaggerated. They exist, but they're not that big. And then it's stupid to scare up households and industries unnecessarily.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-24	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The last thing we can fully agree on. There's no one out there trying to scare anyone up. It is true that I expressed myself in that way in 2011, and I am happy to do so again, because the purpose was not to be intimidated. I think I was trying to explain quite objectively how things are. The calculation examples I used when describing what it costs for households or different parts of the business community are correct. They are not inventive, nor are they intimidating arguments, but these are actual figures that show what this can mean. You shouldn't scare people, but you shouldn't ignore the problem and pretend that it doesn't exist or that it doesn't involve any costs. For electricity-intensive industries in particular, this is a matter of considerable costs. This, of course, creates problems for competitiveness, which is already a problem in many of these sectors. Margins are small, and it's tough. If you are in southern Sweden and want to move production, it is not very likely that you move it to Norrland because it is something cheaper there. Instead, you move to a completely different country. Then we'll lose the industry, and we'll lose the workforce. I wish the Minister for Energy would like to see this problem and this challenge. I also share the assessment of the energy agreement. It provides opportunities to improve the situation. Among other things, the possibility of reinvesting in nuclear power is being opened up. We need basic production capable of delivering according to the needs of the base industry. I think it's an important component. In that part, we agree. What we do not agree on is how to deal with the electricity area reform here and now, as well as the fact that electricity areas create the price differences that pose a problem for competitiveness. In its reply, the Government says that the South West Link should first be put into operation, even if it is delayed, and the effects of it are analysed before any market intervention can be considered. I would like to dwell on this. The Government describes changes in electricity distribution as a form of market intervention. But the distribution of electricity itself is a market intervention – the entire electricity market is full of market intervention. This is a very regulated market with several restrictions on what you can and cannot do. It will be strange if the Government tries to make it sound as if the current system of four-area division is a kind of natural law and if you change this, it is a market intervention. It doesn't match what it looks like. Choosing another solution would have been quite possible. You can still do it. Before deciding to do this division, it was said that there were no four areas involved. Among others, Svensk Energi and Svenska Kraftnät produced a report, the so-called Pompe report, in which a division into four areas was excluded. Instead, they talked about dividing the country into two areas. That would have been better. The Alliance government took this issue very seriously. The problem was seen, although it was also felt important to get the Southwest link in place. To look at other possible options, an investigation was conducted. The 2013 report presented a proposal on counter-trade as a possible solution. This was also recommended by the investigator. I have not received a good answer from the Government why that door should now be closed. V end on the Southwest link can in itself do, but the problem is really bigger before it is in place. It is urgent to do this now. However, the problem can be great even after the Southwest link has arrived, because we have other new connections, such as Northbalt to the Baltics, which can affect electricity flows in the other direction.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-34	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of clarity, let me state the facts: Sweden has today among the most competitive electricity prices throughout the EU – yes, throughout Europe. If the honourable Member does not agree with this view, he will be happy to say which country has more competitive prices. Sweden currently has the largest share of renewable electricity production, and thus climate-friendly electricity production, throughout the European Union. It consists mainly of hydropower but more and more of wind power. In addition, we have nuclear power, and it is also low-carbon. Security of supply is one of the highest in the European Union. All of this should be emphasised when one talks about industries moving out because of electricity prices or lack of electricity. It's not like that. Sweden is today one of Europe's largest exporters of electricity. Last year, over 22 terawatt hours were sold mainly to our eastern neighbour Finland. This is important so that doubts do not arise unnecessarily. According to the agreement that we have made, including Social Democrats and Moderates, we have also agreed that Sweden should continue to aim at being a net exporter of electricity. In addition to ecological sustainability and security of supply, one of the main objectives is competitive prices. With our deal, we've secured this. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler should probably listen to his own words from 2011: Don't exaggerate the effects in a situation that is very good! As the honourable Member says, there are, of course, variations. In addition to the factors the honourable Member himself points out, the demand for electricity is usually also affected by weather and wind and what it looks like out there. During the winter, the impact is of course greater than during the summer. As has been said before, nothing we would have wanted in Sweden. When we had a moderate government in the country, however, there were other sounds in the bark. Let me once again quote the honourable Member from the interpellation debate held in 2011: This is nothing that I think anyone in Sweden really wanted. It was not something that the government wanted and it is not something that the government or we in Parliament have decided on. This is exactly how it is. That was true in 2011, and it is true today. It takes time to expand capacity, and I think we are all aware of that. Let's do what we can. Hopefully we get the Southwest link in place during this month. After that, we will analyse what we need to do further in order to move forward. If you were to start at the other end and make changes in a situation when you have problems with transmission capacity, you had to have very dry feet, because that would mean a market intervention. Otherwise, there is a risk of being put in the same position as the introduction of the electricity zoning in 2011, namely in crackeries with the rules of the European Union. I believe that neither Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler nor the current government – or for that matter the previous government – wants to end up in. When this happened in 2011, neither of us wanted to get into this situation, as the honourable Member himself said. But now it is what it is, and we are trying to solve it step by step. We do this through the expansion of the infrastructure. We also do so by entering into a historic agreement in this Parliament that guarantees Swedish households and Swedish industries electricity at competitive prices for a long time to come.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-42	Mr President, I would like to What the Government says is correct – it is not a parliamentary or government decision that is behind this, but it was the solution that the Swedish power network chose. This does not mean that you cannot choose to do anything about this on the part of the government if you feel that it is a problem. Of course it is possible to do so if you wish. However, I share the view that Swedish power networks are certainly doing what they can to get the Southwest link in place. There's no reason to believe anything else. But in the meantime we have sometimes problems with electricity prices in southern Sweden. I was clear in my last speech, and I want to be clear again: it is not that I want to scare anyone up. It is true that in many ways we have a very competitive electricity market. But when we talk about competitiveness in general for industry, it is not just about electricity prices, but about a mix of all the factors that involve costs for companies. Even if the electricity price were to be low, an increase in the price of electricity could be the small stick on the laissez-passer which makes the overall costs for a company too high. Then the price of electricity may not have been the problem from the beginning, but it may be when you have to pay an additional cost depending on the division of electricity. That is a problem, and I wish the Minister for Energy could see that too. If we then talk about what was said last period, I must nevertheless remind Minister Baylan of what the Social Democrats said in opposition before the elections. Then it sounded completely different from the Social Democrats. Jämtin Jämtin, who was party secretary, was very clear that the electricity division would be abolished. Your then spokesperson on these issues, Jennie Nilsson, who is now chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Employment and is still responsible for these issues in the Riksdag, wrote in a debate article that Electricity Area 4 would be abolished. Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised to change the division of electricity. What about that promise, Minister Baylan?
i-93c9d922cb64357d-46	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin with the honourable Member's question. Yes, it is our ambition to gradually expand capacity. That's what I started to say. Nevertheless, we share the view that there should basically be the same electricity prices throughout the country. Now we sit where we sit. Based on the evidence and following dialogue with the EU, this was introduced in 2011. Then we had a moderate government in the country. Mr President, I would like to Something that has happened since 2011 and which I think it is important to emphasise at this point, so that it does not become a false picture, is that electricity prices have fallen significantly. On average, they have gone down by more than 50 percent over a year-on-year period from 2011 to 2015. It is also important to emphasise that Sweden has large surpluses of electricity that we export to other countries. It is also true that Sweden has among the lowest prices of electricity throughout the European Union. Let me just compare with a close competitor country, Germany. Swedish consumers pay less than half of what German electricity consumers pay for their electricity. It is also important to emphasise this. With the energy arrangement we met last summer with five parties, we have ensured that this will also be true in the future. We will continue to have large surpluses. That doesn't mean we don't have any challenges left. Of course we do. I think it is important that we continue in exactly the same way as in cooperation on the energy settlement. It is also important that we in the party group that will be formed after the Energy Commission is completed continue to work on this type of issues, which Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler raises. Basically, we think of course that there should be the same electricity prices across the country, and then we also need to work on measures that will get us there. The best thing is if we do it together.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-50	Mr President, I would like to Roland Gustbée has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to increase the punctuality of rail traffic and when improvements in punctuality can be expected. I share Roland Gustbées's view that high punctuality in rail transport is very important. It is about securing commuters' ability to get to and from work on time and to safeguard industry's freight transport. It is the Finnish Transport Agency that is responsible for measures and working methods linked to safety and punctuality on the state railway. They relate to transport policy objectives, which include safety and socio-economic efficiency. The Finnish Transport Agency has established procedures for the measures to be taken in case of an alert about unauthorised persons in the track area. Based on the nature of the alarm, it is determined whether it is appropriate to stop the train, reduce the speed of the train on the route or other action. In order to prevent these types of stops and speed reductions, Trafikverket carries out systematic work to improve safety, for example by locking in and monitoring the railways where unauthorised access is common. The measures shall reduce the number of passenger and train stops. A well-functioning railway is an important part of the government's construction of society. Since the government took office, the allocation for railway maintenance has increased sharply. Between 2016 and 2018, SEK 1.34 billion is invested in railway maintenance every year. In addition, for 2017, there is a special investment in capacity-enhancing measures of SEK 200 million. The Government has recently submitted an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag. With this bill, the Government proposes that the financial framework for the next planning period, 2018 – 2029, increase by more than SEK 100 billion. This enables, among other things, a powerful investment in the operation and maintenance of the railway. The purpose of this is to create long-term conditions for a robust, punctual and safe railway. The government's recently adopted new start for the zero vision also clearly focuses on the infrastructure contributing to reducing the number of suicides in the transport system where possible. Overall, this contributes to a safer and more punctual railway for the benefit of jobs and the climate.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-58	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his answer. My interpellation is caused by the many delays that occur in rail traffic, specifically those that I myself have noticed with people on the track. In Gothenburg, a large part of the traffic was recently stopped by people who were in the track area. It was not just in one direction that traffic was stopped, probably because it was near the station. This, in turn, forced the Finnish Transport Administration to turn off the power for a large part of the area concerned, leading to further delays and difficulties in getting the traffic started. According to the latest statistics, the punctuality of long-distance trains is around 80%. That means every fifth trip is delayed. Delays may often appear to be small. But even if it's only five or ten minutes, they often lead to delays, and you miss a connection when you go on. Now we are not measuring this – we are measuring the delay in trains, not the delay in passengers. But the passengers' delay is what is experienced. Closest and camera surveillance are certainly good measures to reduce the number of people in the track area, and that's probably what you think of first. But there must be many other possible measures, perhaps information campaigns to raise awareness of how dangerous it is to be in the track area and of the social damage caused when you are illegally in the immediate vicinity of the track. Many times it is thoughtlessness that is involved, such as people picking berries in the track area or carrying timber across the railway and not thinking that it causes delays and inconvenience for many people as well as socio-economic costs. You could think of better signage. We could also think of penalties for those who want to violate existing regulations, not least with regard to the delays caused by copper theft, which have been quite significant in recent times as well. It could be envisaged that those who do so would have to pay not only fines but also compensation for the passengers' lost time. I do not have any proposals from the government to deal with problems with softer investments. A large part of the Minister's response is about infrastructure investments and investments. But that's not what the interpellation is about. Interpellation is about taking the soft measures contained in the four-step principle: rethink and optimize. These measures also have a much faster impact than waiting for improved rail maintenance. There we fully agree that it is necessary.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-63	Mr President, I would like to This with punctuality has several different parts. This could be a lack of infrastructure. There, as I said, we are providing funds during the current term of office, but we are also making a significant contribution in the next planning period from 2018. It will be absolutely necessary to ensure a reduction in the occurrence of track failures, faults in gears, fallen contact lines, signal errors and all that now occurs in the tracks. At the same time, it can be observed that 91% of all trains arrive on time within plus minus five minutes relative timetable. The objective of a joint project in the railway industry is to increase punctuality to 95% by 2020. These are a wide range of measures which, taken together, will contribute to increased punctuality in the rail system. It is about getting proper maintenance measures but also about traffic management efforts and how to prioritise trains in case of delays. It is about ensuring that vehicles are of sufficient quality to prevent vehicle failures from increasing delays. It is also a question of information. With regard to the specific issue of running in the tracks, it is also a question of physical efforts to reduce the risk. It is quite well-identified in which places it is a more frequent problem. There, major efforts have been made with, for example, fences and camera surveillance. Of course, information campaigns are also an important part of this. It is about explaining and getting more people to understand the consequences of this. In addition to causing delays, there is a danger of life in the track area. It can probably be said that there has been a loosening of consciousness if it may not in the last few years but over time. It is important to restore that knowledge and understanding that it is dangerous. Each year 80 to 100 people die on the rail system. It is then a question of driving. The estimate is that about 70 percent of them are suicide cases. There are different ways to work with it. It is about accessibility to the track area and making it difficult for people to get to the places where it is a major problem. But it is also about efforts made elsewhere in society to detect and prevent suicide with conversations and in other ways. This is, of course, a great tragedy for those who choose this way out, but also for relatives who are affected. There is work going on that has nothing at all to do with Trafikverket's work but has a very high bearing on the problem.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-70	Mr President, I would like to Suicide cases, for example, I do not think we can deal with them through fences. It's probably more about society's work at large to prevent and prevent suicide cases. The whim of the moment can be prevented by having fences and so, and that's good. The Minister for Infrastructure says that according to the nature of the alarm, the Swedish Transport Administration assesses whether it should be a train stop, reduced speed or something else. Here it is a completely different situation in rail traffic against other modes of transport. We do not stop car traffic on motorways because it finds people there, even though they too are in danger of life on a motorway. We are not stopping ship traffic because it is a canoeist who has gone into the fairway. Nevertheless, each user is expected to regulate this by reducing speed. But in train traffic, it's top-down. There you decide according to some kind of checklist to stop traffic completely sometimes. I question that. Instead, trains could be driven slowly past the people in the track. It does not seem reasonable for so many people to have delays in their everyday lives with socio-economic costs. Why can we not treat rail traffic in the same way as we do, for example, with traffic by car or on water?
i-93c9d922cb64357d-73	Mr President, I would like to I would say that the explanation is quite a lot about the fact that train traffic is different in nature. It is a traffic law that does not have free access but is allocated to a train path, and there is a traffic management system. There are signs along the way that you have to stop to keep your distance. It is a much more regulated traffic for the simple reason that rail traffic has inherent challenges in that it is less visibility and higher speeds, and not least in that, for natural reasons, a train cannot do so. It's on the trail. A train also has a considerably longer braking distance than, for example, a passenger car. A ship can hold back and back away. A passenger car or truck can hold back and recede, and the vehicle can also be stopped with a relatively short stopping distance. That is not the case in train traffic. When running in the vicinity of reported tracks, a reduced speed is generally maintained in order to slow down if a person approaches the track area. However, when people are in the track area, traffic is always closed for safety reasons. Anything else would be a complete absurdity based on the objective of ensuring life and health. I think that the reactions would have been extremely strong if traffic management in such a context would choose not to stop traffic with a death as a result. Traffic safety should always go first. What types of measures are relevant when traffic management must be fully responsible for. You should also feel confident that you make the right priority when putting life first. I think it would be extremely unfortunate to start questioning that principle.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-77	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I am not looking to put people's lives at risk. It may be that I have not been sitting in a locomotive cab and seen how the decisions are made there. But it still feels like you should be able to do something to reduce this. We fully agree on some measures. It is about information and, for example, fences. There is also other information that can improve the perceived delay for travellers. I had to experience a cancelled train myself today. There I got the information: There will be replacement buses. But I was not told where the replacement buses were going and whether the replacement buses would allow me to get on time to my connection, which allowed me to take a taxi to the South Main Line and Alvesta. There are many soft measures that can be taken to improve traffic that are significantly less costly than the infrastructure investments that we agree are needed. It's a good thing we're watching it. I have gained a little more understanding of the reasoning regarding the people in the tracks.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-80	Mr President, I would like to It has been shown that measures such as lock-in and camera surveillance also have effects in the form of reduced running on the tracks. These are effective measures. The information section is one of the areas of the Train on time project, as I mentioned earlier. In the increased collaboration that exists between the different parties in the railway market, this is an important focus area. Just as Roland Gustbée says, how to experience a delay is an important part. It is about how to be informed, if you have the opportunity to make a different choice and if it becomes reasonably predictable what will happen. It has worked intensively to improve the flow of information from Trafikverket both out to the respective transport companies, which in turn directly inform their travellers, and out to the media so that you can also get information that way if you are not yet a traveller. Based on my own anecdotal evidence and experience, I would say that it works much better today than just a few years ago. For example, you get updates via text messages when delays occur. This work therefore works better and better. But there is still more to be done, for example when it comes to giving a relevant assessment of how long the delay will be and how long you can expect to have to wait before the train arrives or goes. There is still improvement work to be done. However, the work is very much under way, and I very much hope that this will produce results both in terms of better information and in terms of minor delays.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-83	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me when I intend to present a financing proposal for the construction of the Norrbotnia Line. The Government has stated in its budget proposal for 2017 that Norrbotniabanan is a strategically important initiative. Rail investments such as this contribute to the Government's goal of both higher employment and new industrialisation and reduced climate and environmental impact. The Government therefore intends to implement the construction start of Norrbotniabanan 2018 with the stage Umeå– Dåva. On 11 October, the Government submitted an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag and is now continuing to develop the next national plan for the development of the transport system for the years 2018 – 2029. The Government intends to return to the issue of financing individual investees in connection with the further work on the plan.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-85	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The government has raised fuel and diesel taxes in shock. Despite the promise made by the Minister of Finance before the elections, we have now seen that these taxes have been substantially increased. The government also plans with the indexation it has decided to continue to raise taxes quite substantially on petrol and diesel. Mr President, I would like to Minist ern said this week in Dagens i ndustri that she thinks the petrol is far too cheap in Sweden. We simply have different views on this. I do not meet any voters at home in Västerbotten who think the petrol is cheap, that it is easy to refuel the car and that there is a lot of money left over when it is done. I often find that the opposite is true: the costs of the car and not least of the petrol are quite high. Many parts of the country also depend on the car. The government also wants to introduce mileage and air travel taxes. Taxes such as these strike with surgical precision at jobs, entrepreneurship and living conditions in large parts of Sweden. This applies not least to Norrland, which is my home base. This actually puts a wet blanket on all those who have a distance to handle. Mr President, I would like to The government promised my constituency and Norrland that they would get the Norrbotnia Line. I still think that the policy that should fund the Norrbotnia Line is harmful to Norrland. The question is whether we will see something plus with this manoeuvre. At least I'm not gonna let the government get away with building the Norrbotnia Line. If the government is now going to impose the other taxes and charges on Norrland, at least you should not get away with what little one has promised us back. The question is, is there any money for Norrbotniabanan? In January this year, the Swedish Transport Administration warned that it may be ten years before the start of construction and that money is still missing. I know that the Minister has been out commenting on this, but I still bring it up to explain the seriousness of having money when making promises. Otherwise, authorities don't know how to act. This was the case even though the government had made quite a few promises to build the Norrbotnia Line. The Swedish Transport Administration has announced that it sees little possibility of getting the Norrbotnia Line into the plane. I know – that's why we are having this debate today – that if the government wants to, it will still be able to bring about the start of construction. But when Trafikverket came up with these allegations and we asked whether there will really be no Norrbotniabana or not was the answer: This will come in the budget or in the infrastructure bill and so on! The budget is delivered and the infrastructure bill is delivered, but there is still no money for Norrbotniabanan. There are still promises, and I think that is a good thing. I think it's good if we build the Norrbotnia Line. I don't think what you should fund the Norrbotnia Line with is particularly good, but I think it is good if it is built. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister is very simple: Can the Minister promise the construction start of Norrbotniabanan 2018?
i-93c9d922cb64357d-93	Mr President, I would like to If Edward Riedl wants to set up interpellations about different types of taxes, that is perfectly possible. We have a Minister of Finance who can usefully answer these questions. I will, of course, answer the question about the tax on petrol, but we will take that in a little while. The government has made it clear that we intend to start the Norrbotnia Line. The fact that the Finnish Transport Agency, on the other hand, makes the assessment that the runway cannot be accommodated within the current national plan is simply due to the fact that the government did not give priority to Norrbotniabanan in its national plan 2014 – 2025. Since we have promised to start construction in 2018, we will of course be able to finance the construction start either within the framework of the action plan and with the new framework for the years 2018 – 2029 or in the budgetary context. Work is already under way to develop railway plans and construction documents for the first route. This is mostly done with funds from the EU fund, where the government supported an application in 2015. Work's in progress. However, the fact that an authority does not go beyond the mission it has received is not surprising. Nor is it any wonder that the government states that it will give its authority a mandate. We are quite clear on what we intend to proceed with. Had Edward Riedl endeavoured to read the whole article and not content himself with the title of the petrol tax, it would have appeared that this was part of a line of reasoning. I noted that the car is absolutely necessary, not least in more sparsely populated parts of our country with great distances and little availability to alternative modes of travel. But petrol and fossil fuels cannot be part of the future transport system. Last time I checked, the Moderates agreed to the sector target proposed by the Environmental Targets Committee for the transport sector for a 70% reduction in climate emissions by 2030. I can inform Edward Riedl and others that action will be needed to achieve this objective. Or was it just a lip service?
i-93c9d922cb64357d-98	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I know, of course, how the government divides up the work and that the Finance Minister is in charge of the taxes. However, Mr President, when we talk about infrastructure, I intend to also tell you about its financing. I think that's perfectly reasonable. In addition, the Minister herself is out and says that she thinks the petrol is too cheap. I know that there was a longer discussion in the article, just as the Minister explained. What I mention is the conclusion reached by the Minister. If she is misquoted in Dagens i ndustri, she may say so, but I could not interpret anything other than that the conclusion was that petrol is too cheap. Then my answer is back: No, I think it is too expensive. The Moderates think so too, and that is why the draft budget we are going to submit to Parliament will take a position on later this autumn on proposals and funding to remove the indexation that the government has proposed. So V i simply has different views on this. Then there are the other taxes. Let us be clear about that. The Kilometer tax, the air tax and everything else – I have debated it with the Minister for Finance too, Mr President – is supposed to finance the infrastructure. That is why I mention them in the same context. I think it is unreasonable for us to have all these tax increases which, with surgical precision, hit Norrland, which strikes at distance and which affect those parts of Sweden where you have a distance to handle. That is why I think it is reasonable to include it when we are discussing funding. The only promise I can see where something is given back to Norrland was Norrbotniabanan, which was to be built under a Social Democratic government. So far, I have not seen any construction start, and the government's own authorities are also causing some concern. Therefore, I ask the Minister: Do you intend to have a construction start in 2018? If I did not interpret the Minister wrong, she replied that this government is planning to start construction in 2018, and I am pleased with the answer to that question. But I would like to say once again that the Minister's response nevertheless creates some uncertainty, because she says that she intends to come back either in the action plan or in the budget. I note that this government has delivered several draft budgets to this Parliament where funding for Norrbotniabanan has not been included – no funding and no money, but words that it intends to start building. That is why I think it is perfectly reasonable to ask this question. Mr President, I would like to Let me take this opportunity to ask you a supplementary question. The minister is now promising that it will be built. What, then, does it intend to fund in action plans or in budgets? Is it 9 kilometers of railway, or is it 270 kilometers of railway?
i-93c9d922cb64357d-104	Mr President, I would like to I have answered this question in previous interpellation debates with the same Member, Edward Riedl. The answer has been the same as now. Yes, the government intends to start the Norrbotnia track this term of office, i.e. 2018. Of course, we will ensure that this is financed as well. What we have said and promised is that we will start building the first stage. Nothing else has been promised. There I have been clear in the past, and there I am clear now too. As far as taxes are concerned, I think that Edward Riedl is well aware that the Budget Act does not allow any earmarking of individual taxes for specific purposes, because that would be a charge, but rather the Budget Act provides for the costs to be covered. There are both municipalities and county councils in the northern part of Sweden that have an extremely strained economic situation and major challenges as a result of having a large welfare commitment but often a failing population. After the eight bourgeois years of constant overwhelming and costs from state to municipalities and county councils, many municipalities and county councils have been forced to raise taxes and reduce activity. I believe that the ten welfare billions that the government has added are well worth it. To claim that there is no improvement in Norrland is mildly expressed a truth with modification. I would also say that the forestry programme that is being worked on, as well as the food strategy and the rural programme with several examples, is clearly aimed not least at Norrland or at least at sparsely populated parts of Sweden. This government has a clear ambition that all of Sweden will live and that all of Sweden will be connected and have the opportunity to develop and deliver both good quality of life and growth. But if it depends on us having fossil fuels, I wonder what is the future vision of the Moderates. Do you agree with the vision of a fossil-free society, or should the gasoline remain forever? That, in fact, is what it is about here and not whether the petrol is too expensive, which was not my argument either. My argument was that alternative fuels are not sufficiently economically advantageous to create pressure on conversion. That was my reasoning, and I think Edward Riedl is well aware of that. Is the Moderate vision a continued fossil dependence, or how do you interpret Edward Riedl's contribution on this issue?
i-93c9d922cb64357d-111	Mr President, I would like to The government often says that they have higher ambitions, and it always sounds so great. You are often impressed when someone claims to have high ambitions. Not least, it was when you were going to invest in road maintenance. The government had higher ambitions in terms of zero vision, and then you cut down on road maintenance. It was the higher ambitions. With regard to the high ambitions for Norrland to meet its living conditions, you are going to introduce kilometre tax, air tax and increased taxes on petrol and diesel. And the Minister's view, Mr President, is that, despite all this, petrol is still too cheap. I am beginning to worry when this government expresses higher ambitions in some area, because then you can go for it that there will be deterioration and nothing else. As far as taxes and levies are concerned, I am fully aware of the difference. However, I am not sure whether the government is, at all times, because it has been very problematic about whether to have a road wear charge, a road tax, a kilometre tax or whatever you should call it. I am therefore fully aware of this, and it was also the former Prime Minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, when he tried to explain in debate to the then party leader Stefan Löfven, later Prime Minister, the difficulties of introducing this particular tax. So I'm in control, but the government seems to be missing parts of this. With regard to funding, I would like to say once again that several draft budgets from this government have had the opportunity to identify funding, but this has not been done. Authorities have shown some concern, and so I think it is reasonable for me in this House to ask the Minister: Will there be a start to the construction of the Norrbotnia Line? Will there be funding in place? We have had all the tax increases, all the deteriorations, but we still have not got a single meter of rail, which was the only thing that could possibly be good for us with your policy.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-116	Mr President, I would like to The latest railway in Sweden is, as far as I know, the Botnia Line, and if I am not completely misinformed, at least it is not in the southernmost part of the country. But we don't have to argue about it. It is also the case that different policy areas are linked. The new industrialisation strategy, which is currently undergoing very extensive renovation work by the North Main Line, Malmbanan and many other initiatives in various policy areas such as welfare, education, nutrition and various industries, as well as the work with heavier trucks, are actions that directly have a positive impact in the parts of the country that Edward Riedl is looking after. I hope we can agree on that. Then it is Edward Riedl's interpretation that tax increases always mean deterioration. In my world, you can carry out your higher ambitions by financing them. For example, if you have the ambition that the school should have more resources, that we should have secure conversion systems and that we should have the means to invest in the necessary investments in infrastructure and much more, you also need to finance it. In the transport sector in particular, there is also a need to create pressure for change. I thought we agreed on that across the block. I hope that it will turn out that even the Moderates are prepared not only to set a goal but also to take steps to achieve that goal. We can certainly come back to that in a different context. If anyone who has listened to this debate has the impression that the government intends to increase the tax on petrol, I would like to say that no one from the government has expressed it. What exists is an indexation, but there are no plans to make further tax increases on petrol tax or diesel tax. That interpretation will have Edward Riedl stand for himself.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-121	Mr President, Members of Parliament and visitors! Olof Lavesson has asked me what the continued process regarding the renovation of the Royal Opera looks like and when I intend to press the start button. Initially, I would like to express my great joy at Olof Lavesson's commitment to the issue. A project of this kind is both complex and difficult to understand, and it is therefore a good thing that we have a broad political consensus on this issue. It guarantees a successful process in the future. I regret that Olof Lavesson looks at the wording of the budget proposal for 2017 with disappointment. The Government states that the ambition is to take a decision in 2016 on the renovation and renovation of the Royal Opera building in Stockholm and that a first step is to start the process for a renovation of the super machinery. The scale of the reconstruction and renovation that is involved means that the practical implementation is in the future, although the work on design can start now. The government's assessment was simply that it was too risky to wait so long with a renovation of the supermachine. The risk is imminent that the house may need to be closed if nothing is done in the coming year. As the Government writes in the 2017 Budget Bill, the Government intends to take decisions on renovation and reconstruction in 2016. D is a mission involving much more than patching and repairing. We have the finger on the start button.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-124	Mr President, I would like to In the spring, I and the Minister for Culture debated the Royal Opera in this Chamber. The background was the reconstruction study that the Alliance Government and its Minister for Culture, Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth, commissioned the National Property Board to do. The preliminary study was delivered last May and has since collected dust at the Ministry of Culture. This is not a new political issue. It is 120 years since Sweden got a new opera house. Since then, not much has happened – not with the house, but well with reality. The operations at the Opera have changed. The extent of seasons has changed. The audience's expectations have changed. The cut has been extensive. Other requirements are made in terms of working environment and accessibility. The need for radical renovation and redevelopment is urgent. Precisely this with redevelopment and expansion is the central point. What Swedish opera art needs is not to patch and make laws. It may work as a drip to the patient to prolong the duration of the disease. But if we believe in the art of opera and want to give it the right conditions, it is an emergency operation that is required. Unlike most other opera houses, the Royal Opera has only one stage area. Repetition facilities for the orchestra are missing. You bus the musicians to and from Gäddviken out in Nacka. In the other direction, the trucks run with theatrics and scenes, as they cannot be stored in the building at Gustav Adolf torg. This is an untenable situation. I do not want to say that the reply of the Minister for Culture in this House on 22 April was reassuring. That would be a clear exaggeration. On the other hand, it raised some hopes that something would finally happen. The government would shortly come back with information about when it intended to press the start button, and of course the process would be started. Many were also waiting for a reply when the Minister for Culture presented his budget proposal. The disappointment was great, Minister. All of a sudden, it's just furniture that's going to be renovated. When it comes to a possible reconstruction, the ambition is to return with a message, possibly in 2016. Clearly, a holistic approach is not currently in place. That is why the question is put to the Minister for Culture: Is it patch and cook that now applies? When the Minister for Culture then tried to explain this in the media, the confusion has become complete. The Minister of Culture is awaiting an additional investigation from the National Property Board. It all depends on how quickly the agency can deliver information about the big, important issues that are at stake," she says. The Statens fastighetsverk does not know what the Minister is talking about. The official responsible states that the preliminary study was received very well, and we perceive it as a good basis. And we have not been commissioned to complete the pre-study in any respect. The Minister says that the National Property Board is wrong and tells us how to try to investigate the matter together with SFV. What's the big deal? Is it the Minister or Statens fastighetsverk who doesn't know what's going on? Whatever, what ambitions does the government really have? Is there a holistic approach to the matter at all? Let's go to overtime, Minister of Culture. When do we get the information on when the re- and extension can start?
i-93c9d922cb64357d-134	Mr President, I would like to Just as MEP Lavesson says, patch and fix nothing for an opera house. It takes a lot more. There is no pre-study that has collected dust. I gladly accepted the preliminary study, the content of it and the plan that exists. Olof Lavesson has nothing to worry about. The Member of Parliament is also an opera lover, if I have understood everything correctly. As an opera lover, Lavesson should know that the supermachine is not just any inventory. It's the heart of an opera house. If you don't have an over-machine that works, you'll stand flat. Furthermore, over-machinery poses enormous risks to the working environment. In other words, Mr President, that is not something you can wait for. This renovation must be carried out if you are to be a responsible opera, a responsible real estate agency and a responsible government. So an overmachine is A and O. As we prepare to make decisions – our ambition is to do so during the year – we therefore saw it as necessary to make a direct decision on and not wait for the renovation of the supermachine. That is why it was written in the budget proposal that the Minister of Finance submitted to Parliament some time ago. When it comes to the great, thorough renovation of our beautiful opera house that is unique in the world, we should remember that it is also a workplace that has high demands on itself. It must work for a modern opera, for the Opera to be able to receive visits. For the Opera to be able to develop and be in its full splendor requires a thorough renovation of the house and a construction process. That process must take into account the employees' working environment and be in harmony with the artistic activities. How to proceed, where and so on? One should also have a great understanding of the audience's accessibility, for all of us who love opera and who want to take part of it. The renovation must not least be done with the utmost respect for the aesthetic and architectural values of the building. This means that we plan and carry out the work carefully and methodically. But it is the National Property Board, which owns the building, who is responsible for it. The chief engineer, the inventory, on the other hand, is the Opera's responsibility. But all the physical, solid, around is the responsibility of the National Property Board. This project will cost 2 billion. It's no small thing. SEK 2 billion, which taxpayers have worked together, will be invested in the opera house. It is a hugely delicate task, and every step needs to be carefully thought out. If it – Gud save us – were to be a change of government and someone else became Minister of Culture, which I do not wish, I want to be able to look that Minister of Culture in the eye – perhaps it will be Member of Parliament Lavesson – and say that I was the Minister of Culture who pushed for us to have a thorough basis for the decision, so that our Opera House can stand for many hundred years to come.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-141	Mr President, I would like to We can see that not much seems to have happened since we stood here in April, more than a budget proposal has come. The Minister for Culture and I simply have different definitions of the word. In his reply, the Minister says in a frivolous way: we have the finger on the button. The question is which button they have their finger on. The Minister for Culture repeatedly returns to what a large and complex process this is. I agree with that. We are talking about a major project which it will take years to implement. It is about design, detailed plans and building permits. It's about cultural memories and trials of cultural environmental interests. The construction time itself is estimated to be three years, during which it will be difficult to operate in the house. It's complicated, yes. What a good thing that the alliance government started the process already in 2013! The Minister for Culture talks about the government's ambitions. It is very unclear what these ambitions really mean. But if I now choose to interpret her positively, I have to ask: when the decision that the government has the ambition to possibly – possibly – make in the end – will come, what is the government's ambition for this – possibly – to include? Will we see a continued process of patching and fixing, or will that holistic approach come about? Will it be a full-scale renovation, or – more importantly – will it be an extension? An extension could free up the necessary rehearsal areas and enable the Opera to create a scene for children and young people and create greater opportunities for innovative art. Is it going to be an extension? Or is it going to be a reconstruction? Or is there a little paint in the corners? The Minister of Culture says that the supermachine is the heart of the opera house. I have different ideas about that. I think what happens on stage, what is created on stage, is the heart of an opera house. But the whole bloodstream has to work. The upper machine is important, but the rest must also be there. It is important to note that no one has questioned the Statens fastighetsverk's preliminary study. It is a solid work that clearly defines the opportunities and challenges of a reconstruction and extension. I believe that the Minister for Culture and I agree on that. But the preliminary study also points out which political decisions need to be taken. At our last meeting in this House, I gave the Minister for Culture a reading instruction. It was about s. 31 in the preliminary study. There is a clear roadmap showing exactly how a renovation could take place if it started in the summer of 2020 and that the opening of a new house could take place in the new year 2024. Then Sweden could get a national scene for opera and ballet worthy of the name. As the Minister for Culture says, 2 billion is very much money, but I can tell you that these 2 billion are getting more and more every year that the Minister for Culture is waiting. I would like to share the joy of the Minister for Culture, and I hope to be able to do so one day. I hope to be able to do so before the end of the year, and I hope to be able to do so before the next elections, otherwise a new government will have to deal with it. The Minister of Culture says she has her finger on the button, but my appeal is: drop the pause button and press Play!
i-93c9d922cb64357d-151	Mr President, I would like to I'm not waiting for fun. I also have a lack of patience, because I want to start this renovation. I love our opera house, and I love the cultural heritage that is both in the walls and in the stories and what is constantly reproduced and becomes something new and more. So I fully understand that you feel that you want to get started. We want to put the shovel in the ground and do what's supposed to happen. The budget proposal for 2017 shows that the Government has the ambition to take decisions in 2016 on a renovation and renovation of the Royal Opera building in Stockholm. Based on the preliminary study, there are also clear guidelines for how this work should be done, and there has never been a question of us not following that plan. It is, as the honourable Member says, a solid plan where many perspectives have been taken into account, and there is also a clear direction on how the different steps should be taken. What is central, however, to the core issue is that the decision should be preceded by consistently watertight directives. There can be no question marks once you have started, precisely because it is such a big investment. Unfortunately, there are many projects around Europe and the world that have started things up but have not had enough coverage for how it is to be financed. These are the processes that are currently under way. We are not waiting for something for fun; why should I? It is obvious that I want this in place as soon as possible, and I look forward to that day when I can send a text message to Member of Parliament Lavesson, just in- before we go out with that everything is ready, with the content: N u run we. We are not there yet, but the ambition is for it to happen in 2016.
i-93c9d922cb64357d-156	Mr President, I would like to No, it's not for fun, because it's not such a fun process. It's just like in opera art: It's about love and bloody seriousness. I am pleased that the Minister for Culture seems to share the view that the issue of the opera house is bigger than brick and mortar. Nor is it a question of local cultural life in Stockholm, which can sometimes get the impression in the debate, but it is about Swedish opera art and its future. The Minister for Culture talks about the house and about the cultural heritage. I share her opinion, but this is more than a house. This is where tomorrow's cultural heritage is created, and that is what I think we should remember. The Royal Opera is our national scene and a matter for the whole of Sweden. In the assignment, it is also clearly stated that the Opera should be at the highest possible level in terms of artistic quality, renewal, diversity and craftsmanship in studios and workshops. It is also expected to act to make the arts available to the widest possible audience. It is of course about the artistic activities but also about the audience's experiences, about accessibility and participation and about the knowledge centre for opera art that the Royal Opera is expected to be. A prerequisite for all of this is functioning premises. There's no such thing today, and it's getting worse every day. The Minister and I seem to agree on the mission. We seem to agree on the need. We seem to agree that the necessary pre-study is done. Can we not agree, then, that we need to continue the process? How hard is it going to have to be, Minister of Culture?
i-93c9d922cb64357d-162	Mr President, I would like to Yes, how difficult should it be, Member of Parliament Lavesson? I am well advised to say precisely those words to the experts who calculate and do the evidence themselves. I have full respect for their profession and expertise, but I'm on it. I press and probably ask once a week how it goes, what the next step is and when I can make the decision. I hope, as I have said on several occasions, that it will happen shortly, and as we write out in the budget proposal submitted by the Minister for Finance to this Parliament, the ambition is to do so in 2016. The meaning of Lavesson's words can also be repeated: Our opera house is absolutely world-class and attracts visitors like never before. Almost every show is packed! There are international exchanges, and school classes are in line. You play a role throughout our country with both exchanges and guest performances. The Royal Opera therefore deserves a fantastic building to operate and develop in order to spread all the art produced. We all deserve a fantastic opera house that is there for hundreds of years to come, perhaps with one or two refreshings of the supermachine. Thank you for your commitment! I am extremely grateful to be active in a government when there is an opposition that fights for and emphasizes the culture and, not least, the obvious place of opera in our country.
