i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-4	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Social Affairs Committee's report on social services. The report contains many requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. The fact that there are so many requests for exercise also indicates the importance of these questions. The questions are about the times in life when we are at our weakest, when we need the support of society most. In order not to forget it at the end of my speech, I am in favour of reservation 16 and reservation 24. But of course we support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I only agree to reservations 16 and 18. For us Christian Democrats, it is fundamental for any policy that we start from the needs of children. In order for children to have their needs met, we need to start from what families need. Society is more than just the state. But the state, the public society, has an important role in supporting families. For a long time, we have been able to see developments where there is no improvement in family support. Since 2009, there has been a strategy for parental support, and the previous government did quite a lot to develop parental support. Yet we can see that in separation, for example, conflicts between parents are increasing. More and more custody conflicts are being settled in court. It is of course difficult for the adults involved, but above all it is very difficult for the children. It is therefore regrettable that the new government is not doing any more, although, when you read the report, it feels like there is a consensus, that we are in agreement, that we are going to work on these important areas. But the government hasn't really been working on this area. No more targeted efforts are made in relation to the great need. We Christian Democrats see the needs of children. We see the need to have better parental support before families end up in a conflict that they cannot get out of. Family centres would be needed in each municipality. There is still no such thing today. Preventive work would be needed when the changes have landed in the fact that they have to go their separate ways – this is to be helped by how, despite leaving each other, one can continue to take joint responsibility for the common children. There are many other important elements in the report. But for us Christian Democrats, it is in support of the family that society needs to do the most. We also know that there is a serious situation in social services. Only a few weeks ago, we debated social care for children and young people as regards the unaccompanied refugee children and the situation in social services. We know that social services are in a particularly vulnerable situation when efforts are needed even more, where it has become more difficult. But it is not a new situation that has arisen. Social services had concerns even before there was an increase in responsibility and a heavier task, with 35 000 unaccompanied children arriving last year. The situation was difficult and tough in many municipalities even before. When the Swedish Civil Protection Agency visited the committee, it reported on the warning bells that many municipalities have been ringing. MSB had also asked the municipalities: you who say that you have a very serious situation now, how would you have answered the same question if you had received it in January last year? A lot of people said they said it was a serious situation then too. Even then, the municipalities were in a situation that they were barely able to cope with. It is a joint responsibility for all of us parties to see what the basic problem is for social services. What makes it impossible to cope with what is one of society's most important missions. You should support families, individuals and children when they are unable to sort out their own lives. It's about education. Anyone who comes out as a newly graduated social secretary and is going to work on the most difficult issues with children in need of community support, with abuse or with financial assistance should then be ready to take on the difficult task. Here we have indications that we are not ready today. Many times it is often the youngest, the most educated who work with the most difficult cases. When they have the opportunity to get support from a colleague who is experienced, experience often means that the colleague has worked two years in the profession. It is not sufficient guidance and support for the newcomer in the labour market and will work on the most difficult issues. We know that not all municipalities invest particularly in social services. Maybe the head of social services isn't always on the council. There is a risk of prioritising other issues more than the most important ones. Much needs to be done in order for social services to start working. The social security secretary should be able to go to work and feel that he or she has the resources and conditions to do a good job. Many today choose to stop working in social services because they cannot do the job they have been trained for. The conditions and resources do not exist. Another area mentioned in the report concerns vulnerable women and children. Today there is very good support in women's shelters in some municipalities. But in common with women's emergency work around the country, it is always an uncertain economic situation for the hotlines. A holistic approach is not taken which means that there is long-term financing of the work. That is why we Christian Democrats have proposed having a more long-term perspective and a better situation for all those who need the work of women's shelters. When women are exposed in their home environment and dare to take the step of leaving the marriage, they need to know that there is secure and long-term support. This requires secure and long-term financing.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-20	Mr President, I would like to Like Emma Henriksson, I would like to start by saying that I find it extremely gratifying that so many people are raising social services as an important area and that the issue is now highlighted in a way that has not been done in the past. Social services have one of the most important tasks of society and are a fundamental part of our well-being, both as the ultimate safety net of society and as a central part of our welfare system. But the situation in municipalities' social services is strained. I have, not least during all my visits to various social services around Sweden, heard social security secretary testify about high workload, large staff turnover, extensive staff shortages and young graduates who get too little introduction or none at all. This may sometimes sound like a new situation in the debate, but it is not. Social services have long been hard-pressed and neglected. That is why I think it is important to point out that the situation we see in social services today did not arise in the autumn. It is not the refugee situation that has created a pressured social service. It was under a lot of pressure long before. Deteriorations in various parts of our ocial insurance systems, such as the a-checkout and health insurance, have led, among other things, to many more having to seek, for example, support for livelihoods and other contributions from social services. This has, of course, led to an increasing number of clients now having to compete for the skills, treatment, time and money of social services. For many years Sweden has also given priority to tax reductions and deductions for those who have it best placed before investing in our children and young people and before investing in social services. Clearly, it will have consequences for welfare if a government lowers taxes on those who have the best value for money by SEK 140 billion. Anyone understands that. But the situation has, of course, recently become even tougher for those who work in social services and for those who depend on us having a social service that works. The world is currently experiencing the worst refugee situation since the Second World War, and it is of course the case that the large number of asylum seekers, especially unaccompanied minors, have increased the pressure on activities that in many cases have already been hard-pressed and deprived. This has led to long waiting times and major cracks in the systems, which go out on the children and young people and the others who need the efforts, but also on the staff and municipalities. Mr President, I would like to Social services are a priority area for the Social Democrats. When the situation is as strained as it is now, it also becomes clear that the light is directed towards a sector in society that people expect to function but that has not been properly discussed in the past. In a way, then, it is a good thing that we have now got the focus on this extremely important part of our society. The whole of society must now gather together, and politics must set priorities. In its important work, the state needs to support municipalities and social services. Therefore, I am pleased that the government is now investing in many of these activities, providing funds and reviewing regulatory simplifications to make it easier for the municipalities and for the social services staff, who really do heroism every day. If children are to receive the protection and support they need, the municipality's social services play an extremely important role. The lack of resources must never be the reason why a child suffers badly in Sweden, and the social services staff must of course have the conditions that it needs to be able to do their job. The billion that the government brings to social services over four years is therefore of great importance. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has a mission to develop web-based support for career introduction for new social secretaries and a mission to organise commissioned education for social secretaries, managers and supervisors in the different parts of the social services. These efforts will not solve all the problems, but they will be able to contribute to better introduction for new employees, better conditions for managers to be clear leaders and of course also a better working environment with more employees. But it also requires the functioning of the other parts of our society. The general welfare is unmatched to level out living conditions and create security. General spending on welfare is essential for social services to focus on their core mission: providing care for the elderly and disabled; helping women and men in social vulnerability to find ways to a safe and functioning life; providing support for vulnerable children and more. Mr President, I would like to Family homes are a very good form of living for many children who are in need of housing outside their own home. Last autumn, for obvious reasons, the need for family homes increased greatly. A large number of new family homes grew up. Some had very good quality and very good intentions, others less. Minister for Children Åsa Regnér has promised a new regulatory framework with the aim of getting better control over who is entering the family home industry. The proposal will be presented in the autumn. There is also an investigation proposal that Ivo should require permission to start a family home company at all. The government is preparing and preparing a proposal on permits and background checks. It is, of course, not possible at present to say exactly what it will look like, but it is a question of tightening up the activities in order to get serious activities, which is all we can expect. The government has also recently commissioned the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis to really review how these homes are run and what we get for the tax money we invest. In addition, the government is currently preparing further proposals to strengthen the safety of children placed in family homes. In addition to this, the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to initiate and coordinate national information efforts on, among other things, family homes but also on-call homes, good men for unaccompanied minors and specially appointed guardians. The Social Services Act is a good and very important law, but it is written over 30 years ago. It is an old law that has become an almost intransparent patchwork with overall objectives and in some areas also detailed rules. We see a need for a more up-to-date law. In 2015, the Government issued directives for a review of the Social Services Act. The process of drafting the directives will be very broad. The purpose of the review is to develop legislation that strengthens the role of users and individuals, and strengthens the profession and clarifies the role of the municipality. It is of great importance that the law is up-to-date and that children's rights are strengthened. That is why, Mr President, I am also very pleased that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is finally going to become Swedish law. 25 years ago Sweden ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It was the then Social Democratic Government that signed the Convention in 1990. Since then, several governments have made major efforts to strengthen children's rights and to ensure compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The work on children's rights has come a long way, but there is still much to be done. We know that children in vulnerable life situations do not always have their rights satisfied. We also know that not all children know their own rights. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child considers that Sweden is a leader in many areas of compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but that there is room for improvement, especially when it comes to children in vulnerable situations. The government expects to present a proposal for a new law next year. I'm really looking forward to that. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by talking about one of the biggest social problems of our time, namely violence against women in close relationships. For a large number of women and children exposed to threats and violence in close relationships, the country's women's house, girls' shelters and women's shelters become an important sanctuary. Many people need support and protection in the short and long term, for example in the form of sheltered housing. Women's shelters are an important complement to society's support for women who are victims of violence. But we see that in many parts of the country they need more resources. Strengthening the protection of violent women and their children is a social responsibility and an important part of public welfare. Therefore, the Government has decided to strengthen the state support by 100 million annually for the period 2016 – 2019 to increase the long-term and stability of the economic conditions of the non-profit women's shelters. The government has also increased support for women's shelters from one year to two years. It is a very important decision to strengthen the work of the non-profit women's shelters in many cases. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-42	Mr President, I would like to Social services meet the people who are in perhaps the most difficult situations in life. This can be an abuse that has become such a big problem that it goes out on the family and home. These may be problems such as finding a job or needing financial assistance. Or it can trade children – who are caught in a way that no child should have to do – where the childhood has become so insecure that they can no longer be at home. In addition, social services have been flooded during the autumn by cases linked to the refugee crisis. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's figures, approximately 35 000 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015. That's five times as many as the year before. It is not difficult to understand why it is no longer possible to open a newspaper without reading about how social services go on their knees. Many municipalities have already notified themselves of lex Sarah because they will not be able to take care of all unaccompanied children within the existing structures and regulations. The situation is very serious. Now there is a need for responsibility and new thinking on the part of politics. The measures that were previously necessary to strengthen social services in the long term are now urgent for social services to be able to carry out their mission at all. Unfortunately, I do not have time today to talk about all of our 28 proposals in our exercise, but I will highlight some of them a little. During the hearing of the Committee on Social Affairs, it was clear from several quarters what a huge challenge it is for the social partner to recruit staff. With tough working conditions combined with the increasing pressure due to the refugee situation, many experienced social secretaries now choose to leave their position. At the same time, it is difficult to recruit. Many people today choose to study the socionomic program, but there are quite few who then aim to pursue a career as a social secretary. The newly graduated sociologists who are, after all, recruited in social services are thrown directly into having to deal with difficult matters on their own. It is something that they in another scenario might first be qualified for after a couple of years of training. Of course, the lack of social security secretary makes the work of the profession more difficult. Above all, however, the result is a lack of quality and legal certainty for children and adults who need the help of social services. We therefore believe that there is a need for a strategy for long-term human resources provision and a high level of competence for the social services and their employees. Another problem is the Social Services Act. The Social Services Act has been in place since 1982. During the 34 years since the entry into force of the Act, many adjustments have been made. The aim of the Social Services Act is to be an overall framework law. Instead, it now consists of a patchwork of detailed regulations. This makes it unclear and creates interpretation difficulties both for employees in social services but also for citizens who find it difficult to understand what their own rights are. There is now a need for a clearer division of responsibilities between different bodies so that we can ensure that no citizen is left between the seats. There is also a need for a clearer division of responsibilities between policy and profession. We therefore want to see a comprehensive review of the Social Services Act as a whole. The third issue I would particularly like to highlight today is supervision. I know that several of us in the committee were given thought when we had Ivo in place for a hearing. They testified to the steep increase in the number of HVB homes to supervise without the resources they need to be able to exercise supervision and follow up to the extent that would have been necessary. This means, in practice, that accommodation that may have received a warning does not receive a follow-up visit to ensure that they have taken the necessary measures to address the problems. If we are to ensure that all children grow up well and that all activities work, supervision must be frequent and work at all times. We therefore want to see that all businesses, whether municipal or independent, are seeking permission to operate in the welfare sector. We want Ivo to have more resources for its supervision and for the municipalities' self-control to be reviewed and strengthened. It is absolutely necessary if we are to be sure that all children placed will come to a safe home. Nowadays, the concept of refugee crisis is accepted. The reason why we call it a crisis is the pressure that the refugee crisis has put on various social functions. We might as well call it a housing crisis, a school crisis or a social services crisis. We politicians can therefore no longer afford to prolong processes or bury ourselves in bureaucracy, which we are otherwise so good at. Action is now urgently needed, especially in the field of social services. Otherwise, as our ultimate mission is, we will no longer be able to guarantee every child a safe upbringing. My hope is that all our proposals will be taken care of. But for time-winning, I only agree to our reservations 1 and 16.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-55	Mr President, I would like to Regardless of which party you belong to, I think I can say that all of us here realize the important role that social services have and what fantastic work those who work in the area do. We heard that not least today from the previous speaker. We are all impressed by the work of people working in social services. I guess they're some of the heroes of society. As the reception of refugees increases the pressure on social services, making the workload untenable for many socionomists. As we have talked about in previous debates, many people also choose to quit their services because they are on their knees and that the work environment and workload are nothing but unreasonable. We are worried that social services are so strained around Sweden. We are concerned about the lack of socio-economicists, but also about the evasive effects that arise when social services have to give priority, for example, to the unaccompanied and refugees in such an emergency situation. It is incredibly important for us to point out that we are never going to condone and allow Swedish citizens' right to a well-functioning social service to be jeopardised by an irresponsible mass immigration that the former and the current government have allowed and to some extent allow. It is not worthy of a country like Sweden to override the welfare of its own inhabitants in this way. Having said that, I intend to move on to the substantive issues contained in the report. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a number of reservations, and of course we are all behind them. Today, however, we are opting for reservations 11 and 28. The help you receive should not depend on where you live in the country. When it comes to family support, for example, it currently looks very different in the country. Family support is important for many relatives but also for society at large as it actually relieves other community services. Family members must receive support and appreciation for the efforts they make for their loved ones. Of course, it is not only a matter of appreciation, but also that they must receive support and relief in order to rest and recover their strength. The National Board of Health and Welfare's report Support for persons caring for or supporting relatives highlights the large differences in the country. The 2014 report of the National Board of Health and Welfare on family support shows that many organisations are critical of the lack of support, the large differences in quality and the large variations between municipalities. It is, among other things, family organisations, patient organisations and pensioner organisations that are quite critical of the large differences. The report also shows that, so far, the supply of support has not been sufficiently adapted to the needs of families. We want the government to review the framework that exists to provide more equal opportunities for family support so that it does not, as at present, vary widely between municipalities. That is also why, as I said, I am in favour of reservation 11 which concerns the government to investigate this and to come back with proposals. Mr President, I would like to Another issue affected by the report is honour-related violence. It is a very worrying development of society that we have. Unfortunately, honor-related violence is everyday for many poor women and young girls. The women who manage to break free from the oppression of honour cultures are terribly brave. However, they inevitably find themselves in a particularly vulnerable situation because they are forced to break all contact with their family and also with the majority of their social network. We therefore believe that it is essential for society to be able to offer close follow-up even after the acute phase. People who have managed to break free from a life of honour-related oppression should therefore be assigned a contact person of the social services that can provide continued support, follow up the establishment in society and ensure that everything works. In addition, we must help parents with a background in honorary cultures to adapt to Swedish society and to our standards of parenting and upbringing. Many parents with a background in honour cultures naturally want to give their children a good start and a safe upbringing but choose to raise the children according to the standards they grew up with because they do not know how to function as good parents in Sweden. Here we believe that society must encourage and develop even more support activities, training and discussion forums on parenthood for these people. We believe that the government should develop proposals for developed parental support with a special focus on teaching parents with a background in honorary cultures how they should act in order to be good parents in accordance with Swedish values. The government should investigate this and come back with proposals. Parental education is of course important to everyone. It is often assumed that the role of parent should be self-evident to everyone, but that is not always the case. At present, free courses for prospective parents are already offered through county councils or private alternatives. That is very positive. It is important that parents receive advice and support in parenting before the problems arise. There are indeed family centres and similar activities, but the problem is that not everyone is being reached. The previous government had good ambitions when it decided in March 2009 on a national strategy for developing parental support. The problem, as I said, is that you do not reach out to enough people, and there is no simple answer as to why you do not reach them. In spite of the fact that the possibility exists, many people do not participate today. This is particularly common among, for example, foreign born, low-skilled, unemployed and child-sacrifice. As I said, there is no simple answer to why you do not reach out to everyone. Therefore, we believe that the government should investigate how to reach out to more people. We believe that it is urgent for everyone to receive pre-natal support. Another issue concerns headage in drug treatment. Abuse affects the whole of society and is a tragedy for both the victims and the relatives of addicts. Of course, getting into addiction doesn't want anyone, and here society has a great responsibility to help and support. Great contributions from social services and health care are being made. They save many lives and help many to get on their feet. However, the Abuse Investigation 2011 concluded that people unfortunately far too often fall between the chairs, i.e. between the care provided by the healthcare service and the support provided by the municipality. We believe that it is important to have only one principal who takes responsibility for addicts so that it becomes clear who is responsible. For an addict, contacting social services may not be the most natural. Rather, it is the care that you turn to. At present, the organization of treatment is unclear and fragmented, which means that people, as I have said, are at risk of falling between the chairs. A shared headship was also identified in the investigation as an obstacle to optimal allocation of resources. A clearer responsibility could lead to an improved care and support process for the individual and increase the efficiency of care. A single head office is therefore preferable, where county councils take over the entire responsibility for drug treatment. We believe that this would be the most natural. That is why I am in favour of reservation 28. Mr President, I would like to These are just some of the issues relating to the important work of social services. However, what I think is most important to highlight, and as many here have previously mentioned, is the situation of social services. It has long been on its knees, but at present it is even more serious as a result of the uncontrolled mass immigration that we have had for a long time. All the efforts and solutions we are discussing today must not infrequently stand back because social services in an emergency must give priority to unaccompanied minors and other things related to the refugees who are seeking to come to Sweden and who have an obligation to help. It is incredibly important that we in all parties in all municipalities are observant that the important activities of social services for addicts, for socially vulnerable groups, for children and for adults do not suffer from evasive effects without ensuring that there are resources to cope with all assignments. Otherwise, we are betraying the children and adults who already exist in the country and who need the efforts of social services in order to live a decent life.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-85	Mr President, I would like to The Government with the Green Party and the Social Democrats see the task of improving and upgrading the work of social services with vulnerable children and young people as a key issue. In recent years, child and youth care has, for various reasons, been very neglected in many municipalities. This is largely due to a lack of resources. This area has simply been given too little priority in many municipalities. However, it is not a uniform picture we see. The situation in the country's municipalities is very different. Some have succeeded better than others in finding new creative ways to work and with the important task of keeping staff. The lack of experienced staff is one of the main problems in many municipalities. Many talented people with a big heart choose to become socionomists. But too many people choose not to work in municipal social services where they are most needed. Society needs to be better at demonstrating that the most important social work is often carried out in municipal social services. This is where an ambitious social worker can make the greatest difference in the lives of children and young people. Lack of experienced socionomists in a working group often leads to heavier work for the new socionomists who often dominate in many municipalities. That was not the case ten years ago, for example. At the time, there were far more with longer experience in child and youth care. Of course, not everything has gotten worse. The work in social services is in several ways more evidence-based, systematic and professional today. But at the same time as this development, we have seen a greater lack of resources and an increasing proportion of social secretaries with short experience. Many social security secretaries feel that their work situation is unsustainable and therefore change their place of work and choose not to work in municipal social services. The government's budget, which is supported by the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party, makes a major effort on child and youth care for this year and the next three years. A total of SEK 1 billion is being pushed to during these four years, i.e. SEK 250 million per year. The money will primarily be used to hire more social security officers so that, for example, there is time to investigate concerns about children who are at risk of harm. 210 of the 250 million will be used for more social security secretaries and more managers. The remaining 40 million a year will be spent on training, skills development and supervision for social secretaries and managers. These initiatives in the Government's 2016 budget come on top of those that many municipalities are now doing to boost child and youth care. One should be aware that there is a change. This challenge is particularly great for many municipalities, as Sweden received so many unaccompanied refugee children last year. These children will be a great resource for our country once they have trained, grown up and started working. Municipalities receive special money for the costs of receiving unaccompanied minors. The 250 million a year will be a significant addition to reverse developments in social services. With more social secretaries, more support from supervisors and more competence development and supervision, work in child and youth care can develop and become more attractive. Let me also say thank you to trade union organisations such as SSR and Vision, which organise staff in the field of social services. You come back with constructive suggestions on how to improve social services. The same applies to organisations that work with children's rights such as Save the Children and Bris. You're a blowtorch on us in politics, and it's valuable. I support the Social Affairs Committee's proposal in the report.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-98	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has always worked for a society that protects the weak, and for us the concept of basic security has always been central. Sweden should be a country where everyone should be able to work in profitable small and large companies that are given the best possible conditions to compete in Sweden and internationally, and to work in an efficient and well-managed public sector with state, municipal and private employers. But there are always people who fall into exclusion, and for them society must be in the best possible position. According to Cap. 1 of the Social Services Act shall promote, on the basis of democracy and solidarity, people's economic and social security, equality in living conditions and active participation in society. Social services shall focus on the release and development of individuals' and groups' own resources while taking into account human responsibility for their social situation and that of others. Activities shall be based on respect for human self-determination and integrity. Each municipality is responsible for the social services in its area and has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that individuals receive the support and assistance they need. Today's debate is precisely about the so important social services, and I wanted to highlight its very important importance and all those who, not least with today's major challenges, make such professional and wholehearted efforts in the field of social services in municipalities all over our country. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go! You are doing a very good job, although today's workloads may be considerably greater than the resources available. This, of course, needs to be addressed. How to make social services even better engages, and the motion report we are discussing is based on 158 requests for exercise from the autumn exercise river. A lot, perhaps most of it, we agree widely between the parties in our small northern country. That's good. But on a few points, the Alliance and the Center Party want a little more, and on one point we get through a confession to the government. It is therefore a matter of approval for an alliance motion and means that the government should return to the Riksdag with an account of what measures should be taken to develop a system to strengthen self-control in both public and private activities engaged in social services. This is, of course, urgent and important. The Alliance parties reserve that women's shelters in Sweden, which are doing a fantastic job to help vulnerable women, should receive more secure and long-term funding. In another important area, too, the Alliance reserves itself. It is about the vulnerable European citizens, mostly the Roma, who in Romania and Bulgaria in particular are having a very difficult time. It is good that the government's aim is to reduce and eventually stop begging and vulnerability, and it is good that the government is actively working with these countries to reduce social vulnerability as far as it can only improve the situation. But the Center Party and the Alliance want a little more. We want Sweden to take stronger initiatives at EU level so that the EU institutions and the Member States concerned act more strongly. The health, housing, education and work situation in countries with totally unacceptable gaps between populations needs to be improved. It is important that the EU and the Member States contribute to supporting poor EU citizens on the ground in their home countries. Similarly, there is a need for cooperation projects supported by the EU to help the countries concerned to build up a functioning social service. In this way, Swedish municipalities, for example, can share knowledge and experiences. For this to be possible, the regulatory framework in the EU needs to be adapted so that not only states can benefit from the funds allocated. The Center Party, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, also wants to develop sanctions within the EU to put pressure on countries that are guilty of gross neglect in relation to widespread poverty or through structural discrimination. Behind these two reservations is a very elaborate center motion with Johanna Jönsson as first name. Finally, I would like to highlight three reservations expressed by the Center Party on concrete and urgent social issues. The waiting times in drug treatment are unsatisfactory. People need to be helped more quickly through a simpler process. Therefore, the Social Services Act should be reviewed in order to allow faster provision of drug treatment through simplified assistance assessments. Abuse care should also be based to a greater extent on science and proven experience and responsibility transferred to health care. The availability of assisted drug treatment for opioid users in Sweden is internationally low, and the queues to methadone programmes are generally very long. The availability of care and treatment for people with substance abuse problems must therefore be increased. Currently, municipal officials decide on possible treatment through the Social Services Act. Instead, by allowing the Health Act to govern even in substance abuse care, access to care and treatment can be ensured. Furthermore, the Social Services Act should be clarified in order to highlight the municipalities' obligation to provide regular labour market support to persons with mental disabilities or ill health or receiving subsistence support. The models available to support people with complex needs are all based on the principle of a principal who acts as a door for the individual to authorities and for an active match with the business community. I shall end here, Mr President. I support the reservations expressed by the Center Party, and I support reservations 16, 22 and 29.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-116	Mr President, I would like to We are gathered here today to debate social services issues. I will confine myself to the issue of men's violence against women. It feels like a very heavy task, not only because the subject is so disgusting but also because what I am going to say today has already been said a thousand times before without any major effect. Despite the extensive social impact of the issue, it's like screaming out into a vacuum. It is not possible to count how many times we have told you that 16 women per year are murdered by men in their close surroundings in Sweden, that 17,000 assault crimes in close relationships are reported each year and that the number of darkness is gigantic. We've tried everything. We have described in detail what violence looks like. We have told them that it is committed by someone close to the woman and that it is often children who are the only witnesses to the brutal abuse or, in the worst cases, to murder. Time and again we have told of the long process of mental terror that precedes the day when mental abuse turns to physical abuse. On the basis of research, we have shown that violence occurs in all social groups and that the only common denominator is that the perpetrator is a man. We have been informed of the impossible mission of women's shelters, of the lack of places, of how our authorities repeatedly miss the woman's desperate cry for help. I cannot understand for my life what rhetorical grips we are going to take or what research we are going to highlight in order for it to emerge that this is one of our greatest public health problems and that it fundamentally threatens democracy. This is not my opinion or that of the Left Party. These are facts, raw brutal facts. The bitter truth is that the violence that men practice against women is different from other violence because it is structural. It is the mastery of men over women that is the very basis of violence. And this is where we find the explanation for the coolness of the reactions. The question is about men's power. If we really want to eradicate men's violence against women, the work to break the gender power regime is crucial. But it seems to be taking some time. In the meantime, therefore, we need to know, overall, where the shortcomings of our system lie and what measures are needed to stop men's violence against women. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has for several years put forward proposals in the Riksdag to set up an accident commission to review any case where a woman has been murdered or beaten to death by a related man. The aim is to identify shortcomings in society in a comprehensive way and to provide a basis for proposals for measures to prevent violence in close relationships. A similar law was passed by the Riksdag in 2008. Even then, however, we felt that it lacked important elements. Under current law, the National Board of Health and Welfare is required to conduct a death investigation in certain cases where a crime has been committed against children, women or men who have died on account of a loved one. Suicide is not covered, and deaths abroad may be investigated if the person was a Swedish citizen at the time of death. Statskontoret has followed up its activities and states in its final report that the purpose of the investigation has not been achieved. Therefore, Statskontoret proposes that the current system should be supplemented with, among other things, supervision in each individual case. We are pleased that the government is working to review the law to make investigation activities more effective and effective. We look forward to the proposal planned for the autumn. We urge the Government to then satisfy our and Statskontoret's view that each death should be investigated. Furthermore, we believe that deaths abroad should be subject to the investigation procedure. It is not good for voluntary activity to become the norm. We therefore want the law to be binding. We also believe, unlike the committee, that suicide should be included. We understand the argument that the assessment of whether suicide has been committed on the grounds of crime risks becoming both arbitrary and difficult. Nevertheless, we believe that suicides where there is a suspicion that the death was preceded by threats and pressure should be investigated. We share SKR's view that the investigating authority otherwise risks missing cases with so-called balcony girls who after severe psychological abuse have taken their own lives. It is very important that measures be developed to combat this gross form of honour-related violence. Mr President, I would like to Violence against women is not given the space that seriousness requires. But violence against disabled women is completely invisible. Research shows that women with disabilities are more exposed to violence by their partner than others. In the age group between 16 and 29, 18 percent of women with disabilities say that they have been subjected to violence or threats of violence. For women with moderate or mild intellectual impairment, the situation seems to be of particular concern. A quarter of the women living in a relationship reported that their current partner is violent against them and a third that they had been beaten before they were 15 years of age. The picture is reinforced by the fact that the national strategy recognises that disability is a group with particular vulnerability, which is characterised by a low level of awareness of their vulnerability and a high level of darkness. We therefore believe that the issue of violence against women with disabilities should be highlighted in an investigation. It will make concrete proposals on how to facilitate the situation of women with disabilities who are exposed to men's violence and how to end it. Women with disabilities are as much forced to flee their homes as others when they are exposed to violence in a close relationship. However, many women's shelters are unable to receive women with mental disabilities, and not all on call are accessible. It's a flaw that could cost lives. It is therefore extremely important that we make this issue visible. A new indicator on the accessibility of sheltered housing for women with disabilities should therefore be added to the National Board of Health and Welfare's open comparisons of municipal support to victims of violence in close relationships. In its draft decision, the committee has chosen to reject our proposals. This is done, among other things, with reference to the work on the national strategy against violence by men against women. However, even if the investigation draws attention to the particular vulnerability of disabled people, I do not find any suggestions on how to address the problem. I'm afraid that confirms the picture I just described. For me, such an answer, in which no measures are presented, will be another invisibility of an already vulnerable group. We are of course behind all our movements, but in order to save some time we choose to ask for the approval of reservation 14 and reservation 15.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-132	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservations 18 and 20 and for the Alliance-wide reservation 16. I am pleased that there is now a report called the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become Swedish law. We Liberals have long seen the need to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law, and I think that the additional directive to look not only at the pros and cons of incorporation but also to suggest how incorporation should take place is excellent. I look forward to further work on this. Unfortunately, there are many occasions when we in Sweden do not take sufficient account of the Convention on the Rights of the Child or simply violate it. I am counting on the government, among other things, to clean up the proposals that go directly against the Convention on the Rights of the Child, for example when it makes family reunification difficult or when it comes to the wording on particularly distressing circumstances that it wants to remove. It is a provision designed specifically to protect the right of particularly vulnerable children to obtain a residence permit. Two laws that collide with each other are a problem. There are examples of cases where children who have been forced under the law on the care of young people are expelled with their parents. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the child's best interests are to be assessed. The child should also be able to speak. A not too qualified guess is that by law of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it had been concluded that a child cannot be expelled with the parent whom the authorities considered not to be capable of caring for the child. More and more voices are now being raised about reducing the training requirements of, for example, those who work at HVB homes and as social security secretaries. It's a development that makes me worried. We cannot try to solve a difficult situation by providing fewer and worse tools. Instead, we should do exactly the opposite. I have, on several occasions in this House, raised my concern that support homes are at risk of being used as a cheaper alternative to HVB homes for unaccompanied minors in particular. The requirement for staffing and competence of staff is lower in an assisted housing than in an HVB home. The most important tools for staff are their skills, training and experience. That is why we Liberals believe that it is important to have a national knowledge boost for professions that come into contact with honour-related violence. This applies, for example, to nurses, curators and sociologists. It is of the utmost importance that young people in need of shelter due to honour-related violence and repression meet with professional, trained staff and receive appropriate assistance. Such young people should not be placed in treatment centres where there is a lack of specialist knowledge in the field of honor-related violence and repression. There are also cases where parents refuse to engage in conversation when it comes to cases that have elements of honor-related violence and oppression. An investigation is therefore needed to review the need for a tightening up of the Social Services Act by introducing an intermediate obligation whereby parents cannot refuse cooperation with social services. Such coercion is necessary to protect young people from oppression of honour, but also to make it easier for social services to intervene if a child is suspected of being harmed. Knowledge and experience are important in general. The more we know about our world and our time, the easier we both understand it and relate to it. Mr President, I would like to A while ago, I hugged a crying mother of four outside Ica Maxi. She did not cry because her husband had a burning cigarette butt pressed on her forehead or because of the bruises she had had after the shopping cart that someone had hit her. She did not cry because she had pain in her hand, which had swollen up after someone had stepped on it, which also meant that she could not knit socks and mittens to sell. She did not cry over other people's bad behavior or over the fact that she slept in a car at night. She cried because she missed her children, children whom she desperately tries to give a future. Many EU migrants come to Sweden today, and the people we see outside our stores are in the vast majority of cases Roma. For the Roma, history is filled with persecution, vulnerability and exclusion. I am pleased with the cooperation agreement developed with Romania. However, I find it regrettable that the Roma are not mentioned, but instead choose to write about vulnerable people. It is hardly a secret that Roma are not really seen as part of the citizens of countries such as Romania and Bulgaria, and there is a risk that those who really need the support most, that is, the Roma, will miss out on it. In Sweden, emergency help such as night shelters and other relief services should of course be provided. Where there are children, the efforts of social services should, of course, cover the children of European citizens, who should not be allowed to live under difficult conditions that we would never accept for other children. No children should have to live in cars or on the street. My son came home one day and said: "Mom, at school they say that those you give coffee should stay home in their countries and get money there. Something confused I wondered who I was giving coffee and who had actually said what. But after a while I realized that the son means the beggars outside of Ica and that some classmates said that they think they should go home. Buying a coffee or water for the one sitting outside of Ica for the day is something I do from time to time. I don't do it every day or every time I shop, but I do it sometimes. I wish those who told their son's friends that everyone who's begging should go home sometime took the time to sit next to the old uncle who's outside Maxi. I think he's the friendliest guy in the world. At least I think so, because I don't understand a word of what he's saying. I don't know if he understands me either, but when we talk, he usually sits and pats me on the hand. He's got warm, wrinkled hands. I wish that those who talked about beggars as something disturbing, ugly and annoying took the time to see the man sitting there – man, not the beggar. For it is people sitting there – people who have once been children with mischievous heads and small, wrinkled fingers. Children who ran on chubby legs and were comforted when they cried. Children who have been afraid of the dark, children who have laughed, so they have been whining with big brother at a joke that only they understand, children who have dreamed, longed and hoped. Children who have grown up in or into a world and everyday life that is so hard that it is better to sit in the drizzle of a plastic bag outside a shop in a foreign country than to stay in the reality that is theirs. It is people sitting there — people who also suffer from sitting on hard, cold surfaces. People who get wet when it rains. People who get warm in the sun. People who miss their children. The long-term solution exists in countries such as Romania and Bulgaria. They shall be responsible for improving the situation of all citizens, including the Roma. At the same time, the problem must be raised at European level. The European Commission must increase control and provide expertise so that EU funds are fully used and used to combat poverty and exclusion. Liberals have pushed for the European Commission to increase pressure on the countries, and the government continues this work and must continue it even further. I see a person who is mocked, hated and mocked by those who pass by, who freezes on hard ground for hours and who sits in the sun's gas without protection when the rest of us hide in the shade or enjoy the beach. If a person chooses that way, the alternative must be real, really bad. Mr President, I would like to The weeping mother of four is called Agusta. The children live with her mother when she and her husband are in Sweden. It's up to everyone how to do it: to give a cup of coffee, a ten, or just to walk by. But hurting other people is never acceptable. At the same time, support for organisations such as the Heart of the Heart, the Red Cross and Save the Children, who carry out concrete and effective work in, for example, Romania, needs to be increased. This is still a current problem. We must not forget this humanitarian crisis when other disasters occur. See both the individual and the context! See Agusta, and see racism against the Roma, which is widespread throughout Europe and the basic explanation of the poverty that makes her here!
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-154	Mr President, I would like to My intention is not to go into polemics with Christina Örnebjär, but I agree with much of what was said in the speech. But I was made aware that I confused the subject matter and the reservation point when I proposed. My intention was to insist on No 27, not No 24. I hope it's clear now. No. 27 is a Christian Democratic reservation, unlike No. 24.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-155	Mr President, I would like to I am the last one out here today and will not insist on anything, because my colleague, Maj Karlsson, has already done so. I'll talk a little bit about addiction. This concerns both health and social services. When we talk about family and addiction, we talk about children, mothers, fathers, partners and siblings. The addict is severely affected, but those who are dependent are in a way more severely affected. The price is high. Family members must be able to be more involved and be able to participate. The rights of relatives need to be strengthened. We therefore believe that the legislation should be reviewed. There are so many families and families with addiction problems and mental illness. Linnaeus University has looked at relatives. If we look at school performance in primary school for children who are relatives, we see clear signs that it has been done too little. Of boys who have an addicted parent, 27 per cent left comprehensive school without upper secondary school qualification in cases where the father was an addict and 30 per cent when the mother was an addict. These are extremely high figures. It was 22 and 23 percent of boys and girls who had a parent with mental illness who dropped out of school. These are very high figures when compared to the overall survey of 10.3% of girls and 13% of boys who dropped out. Then you will understand the extent of what it means to be a loved one and children who are in harm's way. At Maria Ungdom in Stockholm, Anders Tengström, a fantastic researcher, did a study of young people in the business. Eighty percent of mothers and 70 percent of fathers had had psychiatric diagnosis including drug diagnosis. There is much that needs to be done to prevent social heritage from being passed on. The efforts of healthcare and social services for dependent people must be better coordinated according to the needs of the individual, both to improve the efficiency of care and to make it more equivalent across the country. Today, drug treatment is neither sufficiently prioritised nor equal, and there are major regional differences. We have unequal addiction care. It's going to be emptybola without profit. The coverage rate for those receiving care is reported to be around 30 - 40 percent of those who are opiate dependent. Those are lousy numbers, aren't they? Early and more knowledge-based care, together with a clearer management of resources to increase accessibility, are important elements of successful dependency care. The Left believes that increased government governance is needed in order to receive equal care. There is a high degree of co-morbidity for dependent young people. Young people who buy drugs online or over-consumate alcohol are not reached through social services but through open clinics specialised in drug abuse. 60% of young people who have substance problems, addiction or addiction also have mental health problems. This goes hand in hand. In an overwhelming majority of cases, sym tom appears on the psychiatric condition prior to addiction and addiction. There's a lot we can do. One of the proposals we do not support is that we use Maria Ungdom in Stockholm as a national centre for knowledge about young people who abuse or risk getting into abuse. Being a woman and an addict is a double burden. Women are more vulnerable. They generally seek care later and are much more stigmatized as addicts. There is a need for targeted help, a clear gender perspective and a care that sees, so to speak, the woman and not just the general. There is a need for a completely different approach. I hope that the negotiations we have with the government on the 10 billion goes home, because welfare needs to be given more money. Social services need to get more money. That's what I want to say. After seeing the programme yesterday about the millions hidden in tax havens, one can only say: Yes, there is money to build prosperity on.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-165	Mr President, I would like to On the Scanian soil, just northwest of Lund, ESS is now being built or, as it is called in English, European Spallation Source. It will be a unique research facility based on the world's most powerful neutron source. Sweden and Denmark are host countries for the ESS, which is a European research infrastructure consortium, known as the ERIC, with Member States across Europe. ESS is one of the largest research infrastructure investments in Europe in recent decades and one of the largest science projects in Sweden of all time. It will be a multidisciplinary research centre. Here the researchers will be able to study different types of materials, from plastics and proteins to medicines and batteries – all to understand how they are constructed and how they work. The plant can be likened to a gigantic and advanced microscope. Research at ESS will primarily be carried out in physics and chemistry, as well as life, materials and engineering. ESS will open the way for future research breakthroughs in many different areas, including medicine and pharmaceuticals, environment and climate and communication and transport. A stone's throw from the ESS facility will soon be inaugurated the MAX IV laboratory. It will be the world's brightest synchronous light facility. Here the invisible will be made visible. ESS and MAX IV together become a hub of the European research infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to What, then, are we to decide on today in this House? The effort at ESS has already been decided, and the construction is in full swing. What we are about to decide today is the agreement reached by the Swedish Government with the European Research Infrastructure Consortium European Spallation Source Eric on 21 October last autumn. The formal offer of a Swedish host to the ESS contained commitments on exemption from VAT and excise duties. In order for the agreement to apply to Swedish courts and authorities, it must be transposed into Swedish law. The Education Committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag now approve the agreement between the Swedish Government and this ERIC. This question was already the subject of parliamentary consideration in the autumn of 2013. The Riksdag then approved a proposal for an agreement with the future ERIC, which meant that the consortium would be exempt from indirect taxes on goods and services. That bill also contained proposals for amending the law on immunity and privileges in certain cases. However, the agreement that was then drawn up never came to be signed because it was subsequently shown that the tax exemption that was intended was not achieved by the agreement. The government therefore decided not to put the law into effect. It is against this background that we are now reopening this issue of a new and more comprehensive agreement with this ERIC. Mr President, I would like to Research provides new knowledge and insights that help us better understand the world we live in. Sweden should therefore be a leading knowledge and research nation. Research and innovation policy will promote Swedish participation in the main international knowledge development. This is how we can best meet the global societal challenges. It is also the way forward if we are to promote a competitive Swedish industry. Therefore, it is gratifying that we have a political agreement on this agreement as well as investments in important research infrastructure facilities, such as ESS, MAX IV and Sci Life Lab. The Committee on Education notes that ESS is a world-class research facility. It is a facility that can be expected to give great long-term significance to Swedish research and innovation and the competitiveness of the business community by attracting both individual researchers and high-tech companies both in Sweden and in other countries. Mr President, I would like to With this in mind, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-174	Mr President, I would like to Recently I was in Brunnshög, among other things together with Thomas Strand. Brunnshög is a place outside Lund. Right now they are mostly hit by the large muddy construction sites that are there. Nevertheless, I would like to characterize it as one of Europe's most exciting places right now, at least in terms of future opportunities for advanced research. This is where the European Spallation Source, ESS, is built. It is the research facility that this report is about. The ESS can be likened, as Thomas told, to a giant microscope where the substance to be analyzed is irradiated by neutrons – here we have the chemistry lessons from high school running. This design will allow you to look at the substances at both molecular and atomic levels in all types of materials, ranging from proteins to plastics. The expectation is that ESS will be able to open the way for future research breakthroughs in medicine, environmental science, climate, communication and transport. Together with the planned MAX IV facility, which is being opened this summer and is located in the same area, ESS will form a hub in the European research infrastructure. It is also something that the European Commission has taken on board and recognised. That is why, as I have said, it was decided to give the facility the status of a Eric for European research infrastructure. Today's report clarifies the agreement, which has in fact already been concluded between the Swedish Government and ESS Eric. Like the other parties, we from the Moderates have no comments on the agreement, but instead wait for the plant to be completed, so that it can be put into use by researchers and active at universities, colleges, institutes and industries. A little after the construction start, in October 2014, there were actually 500 researchers in place to manifest and show their interest in the facility. 500 scientists on this muddy field are not bad. The forecast indicates that when the facility is completed around 2023 each year, 3,000 guest researchers will be present at the facility. There are 11 countries which are currently members of the consortium, but there are also four countries with observer status that have expressed an interest in joining. One of them is Belgium. In fact, at the beginning of March there were twenty people from its nuclear research centre on site at ESS to discuss how to become a member and what benefits you see with it. Mr President, I would like to This is exciting. It is clear that ESS and also MAX IV will be able to attract a number of international top researchers, making Sweden a major international centre in this field. But this requires that we have a government that works actively and strategically to ensure that Sweden as a host country gets as much out of the facility as possible. I am thinking of competitiveness, and I am thinking of results for research that takes place in academia as well as in industry. I think that the Foundation for Strategic Research – SSF – has shown strong and strategic leadership. They have already identified that more universities need researchers who have knowledge of the possibilities of neutron diffusion, which is specifically involved, and therefore they intend to announce support for research groups in this particular area. The purpose of the call is that more universities can thus build up expertise in the field and also be an important link to industries: both that they can understand and communicate the needs of the industry and to be able to look at opportunities that different companies can have to take help from this facility. This means that they want to ensure that Swedish industry will be able to use ESS in the best possible way. During our visit to Brunnshög, which was also organised by Rifo, Parliament's network for MPs and researchers, it was said that there are expectations of Sweden as a host country for ESS, expectations in the form of active and strong leadership and commitment where people think strategically and encourage prospective users from academia, institutes and industries. This is, of course, an issue that has also been highlighted in today's industry, among other things. We Moderates therefore hope that the Swedish Government, as the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research has done, will analyse and engage in this world-leading facility. Sweden must manage and benefit from the responsibility we have undertaken to host the ESS and also live up to the expectations of strong leadership. This chance must not be allowed to pass us by the Swedish Government! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-187	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to say that I support all of the reservations of the Alliance and the Moderates, but for time to come I only ask for the approval of reservations 1 and 11. I am not going to mention anything related to sport and outdoor life, because that is what my party colleague, Saila Quicklund, is going to do in a little while. Today we are discussing a report on civil society. Sweden would not be the stable and developed democracy that we are today if we had not had a strong civil society. All associations, organisations, networks and other more or less solving associations of people who over the years have wanted, and still want, to develop, learn, contribute, change and more are the cornerstones of our civil society and also of our democracy. It is wonderful that we are such a dedicated association people and that we have been so long. This has made Swedish civil society one of the world's strongest today. Swedish democracy has been born of people's voluntary commitment. It is people who have come together for various reasons to change something, to improve something or to help. The driving forces are many, but in common they are born out of the will to solve problems, sometimes acute problems. We saw examples of this in the autumn with regard to the refugee crisis and the flow of refugees to Sweden. For civil society sees needs quickly and can quickly do something about it, but it can also work in the long term. When the public is unable and unable to cope, civil society goes in. What had the reception of asylum seekers been like in autumn 2015 without the efforts of civil society? Would the public have done it on its own? No, I'm saying, and I don't think anyone's gonna argue with me. This is what makes civil society so important and valuable: when the public is not able to do so, civil society enters. Autumn's refugee stream has shown the importance of a strong but also flexible civil society. Wide popular movements have worked side by side with interest groups and networks that spontaneously engaged themselves via social media. The Finnish Immigration Service alone would not have been able to cope with the influx of refugees in the autumn of 2015. Just think back to what it looked like at Stockholm Central Station during the autumn! It actually worked pretty well. One of the major organisations in our civil society, the Red Cross, has counted on the value of all the volunteer work that the organisation does. They have made use of an EU schablon, where each volunteer hour worked is estimated at SEK 175. A volunteer in Sweden works an average of 140 hours a year, or just over 2 hours a week. The Red Cross has about 30 000 volunteer volunteers. They became a few more during the autumn; almost 5,000 more were added during the autumn when the large flow of refugees was. The value of this is 735 million in one year — 140 hours a year, 30,000 volunteers, $125 an hour, an organization. That is a staggering sum, given that this is only one of many organisations and networks in our civil society. I think it's amazing. The idea swindles when you think of the total value of what civil society does. Then my next question will be pretty stupid. Would society function without the non-profit forces? No, it would not, and that is why it is so important that we protect and provide the conditions for civil society to develop and that we ensure that people want to participate and make an effort, that they want to join some organisation to strengthen society, to help someone else or to change something. In order for this to happen and for people to be attractive to work on a voluntary basis, we need to ensure that businesses have the tools they need. We must ensure that there are no unnecessary obstacles, and if we do so, then both society and people who year after year are working on a voluntary basis to make others feel better. A few weeks ago, the report on the strengthening of civil society and the supplementary directive issued by the government were presented. The investigation is based on the alliance government bill A civil society policy from 2009. I believe that we all agree that the conditions of civil society should be strengthened in every way and that obstacles to the operation should be removed so that it works as smoothly and as well as possible. We also realise how important the different roles of civil society are. It is about voice-formers, opinion-formers and democracy-bearers. It is education for participation, responsibility and more. We all pursue the same goal, but we have different paths there. We want it to work well. The independence of civil society should be strengthened and protected. It's important. The independence of associations, religions and organisations can be preserved and also strengthened. It is important that we make it easier for civil society to participate in public procurement, for example, and that we reduce the administrative burden, because we know, we are in here, that everything can get better. When you talk about civil society, it becomes like a unit. We say civil society, but it is a swarm of organisations, networks, associations, religious communities and all sorts of associations. Allow me to refer back to the investigator who has written Palett for a strengthened civil society, that is, the investigation that was handed over a few weeks ago. He says that civil society, with its diversity and abundance of organisations and specialities, is a body of its own society. That is a good and accurate description. It is a large body of society next to the public. It is independent and has its own freedom. It benefits individuals as well as society, it contributes to cohesion and it is based on the commitment of individuals. Without the commitment of individuals, we would not have a civil society that stands so strong of itself without any major involvement of the public.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-207	Mr President, I would like to Civil society is an overall concept in which we treat various private associations such as charities, church, colony gardens, community associations, sports associations and private foundations. Civil society is civil society in which we politicians should not regulate in detail. That's the cool thing about civil society. It solves itself with driven and committed individuals. Civil society is today a strong part of the social model, and that is a good thing. It is good for those involved who take part in democratic work. Civil society has a unique folk movement tradition that has been part of our heritage for generations. Civil society is unique and well established with high participation in both local and regional associations but also in associations at national level. There are associations for all our interests. Personally, it started in the sports association life with active parents who sold coffee and bought bingo tickets at competitions. Then I became a member of the ballet's friends' association and also participated in political associations. What I'm trying to say is that there's something for all of us, and we've all probably taken part in association work. It's raised us. Association life in Sweden is unique but above all awesome to see! Associations are strongly associated with the sports movement, and that is how it should remain. Ideal souls are doing everything they can to make the children feel happy. Ideal souls do this of their own free will. They are the ones who make many sports clubs or associations go around. Many of our elite athletes began to play sports when they were children. It is almost a prerequisite today if you are to become a top-level athlete. Sweden has many elite athletes who I am convinced we are all cheering up during championships and competitions. Without our strong association life, we probably wouldn't have had as many to cheer up. In order to continue this successful story, we want the government to review the long-term conditions of elite sport – this because international competition is increasing and increasing. That is why I am in favour of our joint reservation No 17. Mr President, I would like to I'm sure we all have an Ikea furniture that we've built together. Maybe it's a little messy at first. You think there's a screw missing, and you don't understand the instructions. But when it's done, it's nice, and you're happy and maybe a little proud – proud because you've built the furniture and proud because it stands straight. This effect is called the Ikea effect. This means that we humans tend to take an extra fondness for what we create ourselves. In other words, a great deal of effort, time and effort is something we will take extra great care of. I want to create perspectives in your thoughts. Let me paint you a picture. Calle's out stabbing a tree on his property. Tree stutter one turns gently into boards. From the boards it becomes a bus stop because the old one was through the route. Calle's neighbors build a bench, and the other neighbor paints the new bus stop. I am convinced that if you are involved in building your society, or one thing, or an association, you are less willing to destroy. What you build is what you care about. This way of thinking I think is very nice, and it encourages. It encourages joy, but not least a relationship through joint commitment and creation. Let us do things together that we can all enjoy. That's the beauty of civil society. They're the heroes of society. Mr President, I would like to In our reservation 18 we write about recurring problems we get to see in the name of honour culture. In the name of honor, a person is subjected to harassment, threats and violence, mostly from those who should be closest to him. You put the family name with reputation before the person's free will. You let honor take precedence over support. This is, of course, totally unacceptable and does not belong in a modern, democratic, civilised and Western society. Part of the honorary culture maintains and reinforces discriminatory treatment of young girls in these families, and it limits the freedom of different family members depending on gender or age. In a young girl's case, it may be a matter of control over her love life, which friends she may meet or what she should wear. Honour culture is a growing problem in Sweden and therefore a problem we must take very seriously. Women's rights and freedoms in our country should always be protected and not depend on the origin, faith or cultural perception of the family. It will never happen in a democratic society that we all share in. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 18.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-221	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by supporting all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party in this report, but I would like to support reservations 1 and 10 for time-winning. Mr President, I would like to Civil society is often quickly in place when some form of human need arises, not least now that we have a situation in our surrounding world that allows many people to seek protection here in Sweden. This was also mentioned by Eva Lohman in her speech. An important part of the integration work is to create meeting places. Meeting places can prevent social barriers from being built between people of different backgrounds. Conflicts already exist between different groups in society. But it is contradictions that we must be able to overcome, and we can only do so if we actively work to spread knowledge, listen to people's concerns and influence attitudes that harm and threaten our society. Civil society and community life are the cornerstones of the creation of the meeting places needed to overcome the contradictions and support integration efforts. Association life, the whole of civil society, is incredibly important in the integration work. For people who have fled authoritarian regimes, civil society representatives can also often create more trust than public officials and uniformed officials. However, when an idea-based organization wants to cooperate with the public to do social work, difficulties can often arise. These are difficulties because there are no clear models for cooperation to use. For example, there may be confusion about the legal structure that makes the cooperation run the risk of not being carried out. The Center Party therefore wants to develop models for partnerships between ideas-based organisations and the public. It would bring many benefits and benefits to both the non-profit organisations and the public. But the big profit would be for our whole society. So there are obstacles in our system that make it difficult for civil society to make these societal efforts. We can see these obstacles in, for example, refugee camps. We are several parties here in Parliament, both in the government and in the Alliance, who see the need for civil society's efforts in our refugee camps. It is good that we agree on that. But more needs to be done. In the Center Party we always want to see to the individual, whether that person has a Swedish personal identity number or not and whether that person will probably stay in Sweden or not. The Center Party wants every person to be allowed to develop and feel human dignity, and civil society with peoples' education and associations has an incredibly important role to play here. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants an association law investigation to be set up. The purpose of this study is to clarify and strengthen the specificity of civil society and create reasonable regulatory frameworks for associations and civil society. Several areas where organisations have traditionally been run by associations have gained new players in the form of entrepreneurs. There is a risk that this will undermine the right of association. The Palett investigation for a strengthened civil society, also mentioned by Eva Lohman, has recently been handed over to the government. I look forward to the proposals the government will make from it. However, in the Center Party we still see the need for an association law investigation aimed at clarifying and strengthening the specificity of civil society and creating reasonable regulatory frameworks for civil society activities. For the Center Party, it is about that those who volunteer to contribute to society with their commitment must also have good conditions for this commitment. We want to improve the opportunities for civil society to make a contribution to society. But there is a need for better knowledge of the challenges that exist. Public opinion can be better at inviting civil society for dialogue and interaction. There is also a trend towards more project grants at the expense of basic support for non-profit organisations. In order to strengthen civil society's ability to address society's challenges even more quickly and flexibly, the Center Party wants to see an increased share of basic support in the contributions from the public. Mr President, I would like to What is also important for civil society is that there are meeting places. Therefore, in its budget, the Center Party spent additional resources on support for assembly facilities. It is in the district yard, in Folkets Hus, in the sobering room where people meet for meetings and parties. You meet there to cook together, as a starting point for Nordic walking together, just to meet, perhaps even to teach your children to ride together. In short, you get the opportunity to get to know each other and your region. Unfortunately, the government does not see this strength in the district yard. Instead, they take the resources of Boverket that are set aside to make the assembly halls available for administration and call it an initiative. I call it false marketing. Instead of letting the entire grant go to the adaptation of the farmyards during the time of the alliance government, the government will deduct the same funding for the salaries of bureaucrats at Boverket. With that, Mr President, I would like to make it clear once again that I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in this report, but that I only ask for the approval of reservations 1 and 10 for time to come.
i-Qo53TjNdKRvwK536MuKu1x	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to ask for reservation 1 under paragraph 1 and reservation 19 under paragraph 27. Mr President, I would like to Humans depend on contact with others. It is perhaps one of the reasons why we almost reflexively merge into common structures when we are more than two who have the same interest and that we see this as something quite natural. Maybe it's something specific for our country. To create a stable society where people are allowed to grow, feel security and develop themselves and their surroundings, we need anchors, fixed points in life and contexts where we feel confirmed and at home. It creates a basis for greater responsibility, cooperation and trust between people. We even have legislation for this in our country. We have routines, but anchored in soon told us all, which governs the amazing which we call union life and which is something almost world-unique. Civil society is a hallmark of Sweden and something we should be very proud of. There is, I believe, no disagreement about this. Mr President, I would like to Civil society is increasing democratic participation, as several previous speakers have mentioned. It also increases people's influence in social processes. Public power must and must seek dialogue, interaction and knowledge sharing with civil society and its actors, and will also help to promote the civil sector in order to grow, thrive and grow. You can do that in many different ways. I believe that we all agree here that the scope for non-profit efforts in integration, health and social care, education, culture, aid and total defence must be increased in order to meet the challenges of the future. But this must be done with a great deal of understanding of civil society's conditions. In its interaction with civil society, the public shall respect the independence, capacity and unique role of civil society. We in politics must contribute to this. We must provide good conditions. It should be easy and appreciated to engage in a sports club, a Scout Corps, a peoples' education organisation, a social aid organisation, an association of interest or any other organisation of any kind within civil society. All this needs to be made more clear. We need to be better at this than we are today. There must be long-term rules of play that bring out the very best of both public actors and civil society actors without becoming a coercive situation for either party. No one must feel cheated in a corner. That is why I am concerned about the government's actions. That suggests a little bit of a different understanding, something else. We can debate VAT rules, the right to deduct gifts, the rules for the granting of grants, the use of social security numbers and more. All of these kind-hearted rules have changed, but I don't think that will lead to the goal. For us Liberals, it goes without saying that the capabilities of civil society must be exploited through the public regulatory systems that we have. Mr President, I would like to From the state side, we support the religions of our country with more or less abundant financial contributions. It's a good thing, and we're gonna keep doing that. We Liberals would like to see us using the concept of religious communities more broadly about life-seeking organisations to ensure that they receive additional support. But it is another debate. To be eligible for support, as it is written today, a community must conduct active and long-term religious activities in the form of worship, soul care, education and care. It also stresses that the state contribution must only be given to a community of faith that helps to maintain and strengthen the fundamental values on which society rests, is stable and has its own vitality. Mr President, I would like to This is where it's getting awkward. We all have a notion in here of what a prison is. We see, I think, gridded windows, barbed wire, yard and uniformed staff in front of us when we use the word prison. But it is in our society today, in our midst, that for many women, girls and boys, the home of their own is a prison and their own family of jailers. Fadime Sahindal made Sweden open its eyes to these invisible institutions in our midst. Her voice for the oppressed would be needed today, not only in Sweden but throughout Europe. Constantly working towards these prisons must be a high priority for society and for us as individuals. Here the religious communities play a large and important role. They must be given room to contribute to this important fight. These communities must have generous rules and contributions in order to continue. But, Mr President, there are unfortunately dissuasive examples of the very opposite: religious communities which build walls, which act as prison guards and which train those who maintain oppression. We must dare to say this, and we must also be able to counter this by withdrawing the subsidies. This should not be the responsibility of the state and ultimately the taxpayer, regardless of the religious orientation involved. There must be good control here, and subsidies must be suspended or not granted if the rules are not complied with. We have good rules, but they need to be clarified and followed more strictly regardless of which outlook on life or religious opinion is involved. This, Mr President, has nothing to do with freedom of religion. It has only to do with respect for taxpayers' money, respect for the freedom, life and health of all people and the ideals that are our common foundation. That is why, Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 19.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-256	Mr President, I would like to In the autumn and winter, in connection with the large influx of refugees and migrants to our country, we are many who have been impressed by the enormous commitment we have seen in NGOs who have wanted to support their fellow citizens. When, for understandable reasons, the public, especially the Migration Agency, could not cope with their overwhelming task, there were NGOs with committed people who, without government or municipal directives, saw that there are fellows in a vulnerable situation who need to have a roof over their heads. Then they chose on their own initiative to make an effort. This commitment is an invaluable part of civil society. I myself come from Öckerö in southern Bohuslän and saw how churches and sports associations at short notice arranged food and accommodation for the new arrivals when it became clear that the situation was unsustainable for public institutions. It created a great commitment in the district. Many were involved, and many heard touching stories of dramatic human fate. Civil society NGOs, such as Save the Children, churches and communities, sports associations, Missing People and so on, have established and good structures to carry out resource- and cost-effective work. Mr President, I would like to For us Christian Democrats, civil society, that is, people's commitment and willingness to cooperate and cooperate in various forms, is the foundation of all democracy and social development. We Christian Democrats also believe that the task of politics is to create good conditions for this commitment, this positive drive that exists in us people to want to cooperate and develop our environment, our society and our lives. There is a political dividing line between us who want to support this commitment and those who prefer that state and municipal authorities and institutions should take over, govern and coordinate most of what is happening in society. Mr President, I would like to In this first speech to this House, I would like to conclude by calling for the Alliance's reservation No 1 on the importance of civil society for democracy and for the Christian Democrats' reservation No 3 on the position of civil society.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-264	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and Minister Gabriel Wikström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-266	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Fridolin. Swedish school faces major challenges. The growing shortage of teachers is perhaps one of the greatest. Not least in SFI and Swedish as a second language, the lack of teachers is already great while we know that language is the key and must be prioritised if we are serious about integration. In order to meet the great need, the Moderates have already suggested that Swedish as a second language should be included in the teacher education in order to strengthen the supply of skills. The government has said no to that. The Moderates are proposing today that it will be possible to study SFI-licensed summer time and to study Swedish A as a distance course. But despite the government's own calculations, which say that within three years we'll be missing 4,800 SFI teachers, the government is nuts. The Government has now been in charge of the minister for 531 days, but the reforms to meet the challenges we are facing shine with their absence.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-272	Mr President, I would like to I've been blamed for a lot of things as a minister, but I think the weirdest silence was the first time. We in the government have made sure to invest in raising teachers' salaries. 3 billion we are investing in it. We have ensured that teachers have better opportunities for further training, and we are in talks to improve teachers' working environment. At last we see an increased search pressure on teacher training. We'll build on that. Yes, it is true that we need special efforts to ensure that more are qualified in Swedish as a second language. This is precisely why, unlike the previous government, the government has tripled its support for entering Swedish as a second language within the Teacher Lift. For the first time we see that these places are not just drunk but overcrowded. It is clear that we will then come back with more policy. I think, for example, that the proposal that Erik Bengtzboe and the Moderates are launching today is such a good one.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-277	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is genocide in Syria and Iraq against Christian and other ethnic minorities of the Islamic State, who want to destroy or expel Syrians, Chaldeans, Assyrians and others from the region. There are murders, kidnappings, rapes and destruction of cultural history buildings in order to wipe out the existence of these minorities in the area. Over 2 million Christians have been forced by force to leave the region. Action by the UN Security Council is now required to help the vulnerable to survive in the region. At the initiative of the Christian Democrats, the European Parliament has recently recognised the abuse as genocide. Only two days ago, the American House of Representatives also recognised the abuse as genocide. In the spring, the Senate will also take a stand on the genocide issue. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: will the government recognise the genocide of the aforementioned minorities in Iraq and Syria and work for the UN Security Council to recognise the genocide?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-282	Mr President, I would like to We have worked for the Security Council to refer the matter to the ICC, the International Criminal Court. We can hope that it will determine what has happened and whether it is a genocide. Very often we almost lack words to describe what is going on. The words that come to us are genocide, crimes against humanity or terrible abuse. It is important that it is established in accordance with the existing conventions and that the perpetrators in particular should be held accountable.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-284	Mr President, I would like to The Foreign Minister knows that the concept of genocide is of great importance. The definition and obligation to act is contained in the UN Declaration of 1948. Recognition calls for international action to protect those affected. The affected ethnic groups and more than 150 000 new Swedes testify to the heinous abuse they have been subjected to by the Islamic State. Denying or repressing the truth will not help these people who need support and help from the outside world.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-286	Mr President, I would like to We do not deny and shoot nothing away; on the contrary, we are working on a political trail, on a humanitarian trail and, indeed, on a military track. It is incredibly important that, no matter what we call it, we must act. In fact, it is the most important aid to all those affected. For example, I have met a young girl who has been a sex slave in Syria, so I know very well what the suffering is. We will continue to act and ensure that we do everything we can.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-288	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address the Minister for Culture, Alice Bah Kuhnke. I would like to raise the issue of free access to certain state museums. In my hand, I have a letter from the Board of Snilleriket, which is an association that works with industrial monuments in the southern part of Storsjöbygden. I would like to quote from the letter: our historical cultural products should be of the highest possible national cultural value but now suffer from the increasingly pervasive urban fixation, which contributes to the impoverishment of rural areas. All our activities are run on a voluntary basis and without government subsidies. We're in... This was stressful. The clock's running so fast.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-292	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per Åsling, for the question! I sense that there is concern in our country that the efforts on culture and the building of society with which the government is working intensively will not benefit everyone. It is an existing concern, not least after eight years of bourgeois rule when one did not invest in culture at all. I would like to reassure the letterwriters and Per Åsling that what we are now doing and the cultural policy that we are rolling out across the country is investing in the whole country. We create meeting places, and we have a free-entry reform. Sure – most of the state museums that are government agencies are located in Stockholm, but they are also located in Karlskrona, Gothenburg, Malmö and Linköping. We will now prepare a work where we look at the model of cultural cooperation, this key to how we get culture across the country.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Culture, for trying to answer! What I was going to say when I was interrupted was that the government of the kingdom of SniIIa further says in the letter that they are handcuffed, discouraged and surprised, as it is the forces that most of all should accelerate our work, which now instead hold the bill. Why does the government do that? The reform and change is directed towards Swedish countryside and countryside.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-298	Mr President, I would like to If I understand the honourable Member's question correctly, it is about the free-entry reform and why we are making that effort. It is one of the tools we use. During our term of office, we will see what happens, and we can already show that we are investing in culture across the country. There is SEK 100 million to the Culture School to strengthen quality. There will be more skilled teachers. There will be more instruments. There will be a wider range of culture for our children and young people. As I said just now, we are looking at the cultural cooperation model. We'll pump culture into it, too.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-300	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Gabriel Wikström. It reads: What does the government intend to do about the needs that have now been analysed by the Swedish Health Care Agency in its analysis, and in January the report "Effective care" referred to the need to create the conditions for health care personnel and care to work more coordinatedly? Many tax chandeliers today go up in smoke because of this lack of coordination. This concerns actions for children and young people, for the mentally ill and, not least, for year-long people with composite care needs. I don't think the investigation Effective care has gone out for a referral. I think it's urgent.
i-HWp5QVimSMopBmmc7SGHqg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Westerholm, for the question. I fully agree with Mr Westerholm that there is an urgent need to make changes in this area. If there are shortcomings in Swedish healthcare, it is precisely in the coordination between different levels of care and, for that matter, between different healthcare providers. In the study Effective care, which was presented shortly after New Year, there are many interesting suggestions that I think can help to make care more coordinated and not least benefit patients who suffer from chronic diseases and who we know most of the care resources actually go to.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-304	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it's urgent, and it's been a long time. There's no change of money going up in here. I think it is Lidköping who, in terms of the combined needs of year-rich people, has shown that it is possible to save SEK 185 000 a year if you work in a coordinated manner.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-305	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I fully agree with Mr Westerholm. Some of the things that the government is already doing today are that we are investing in better skills provision in health care. Among other things, we distribute a so-called professional billion, which will go to efforts in the healthcare sector to strengthen the supply of skills. We also have a national collection to see together with the various actors in the healthcare sector how we can improve the efficiency and use of staff skills.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-306	Mr President, I would like to My questions, of course, go to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. A report from the Swedish National Agency for Education on the impact of immigration on school outcomes was released these days. No Swedish democrat may be surprised at the reading, but now at the heart of the matter. Let's start from the beginning. The possibility for a new arrival to attend school begins under the authority of the municipality and the Finnish Immigration Service. The Minister for Education probably knows these things at the top, but the Swedish people may not know, so I want to clarify a little bit. Up to three months, an asylum seeker who does not enter a preparation class must be offered easier, elementary schooling in the municipality's direction, for example with a focus on mathematics, Swedish, English and movement aesthetics. Control shows that it is a vision that is not being fulfilled at all today. My question, Mr President, to Minister Fridolin is: what does the Minister of Education intend to do about this?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-311	Mr President, I would like to During the autumn that has been – when Sweden has taken a great responsibility for people and not least children who come directly from war and flee – it is clear that the municipalities have not been prepared to do as much as they normally do. It has taken longer for the children to get into school. But now we see that the vast majority of children who came this fall have a place in school, and we see how the school's professions, teachers and principals, have really stood up to give these children a good start. We see the new legislation that we have pushed through in Parliament, with a survey that starts to come into place of the children's knowledge before deciding on the grade and ensuring that you get the right support at the beginning. In fact, a lot of positive things are happening now, and I think we should see them too. An important part of this is that all municipalities must be involved in taking responsibility. If only a few municipalities should be involved in taking responsibility for the children on the run, it will be difficult to manage schooling well. I therefore regret the fact that the Swedish democrats, who I believe are alone, say that not all municipalities should be involved in taking responsibility for those who come on the run.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-314	Mr President, I would like to My second question, Mr President, concerns the preparation classes. Thankfully, the Minister for Education has often heeded the Swedish Democrats' school policy proposals, as there is usually a copy soon afterwards, perhaps with a slightly different name and in a slightly worse version than the Swedish Democrats. Last today there was a proposal for career opportunities and investment in vice-chancellors in particularly vulnerable areas, according to the Swedish Democrats called the Shanghai model, which we released already about a year ago. But since copying seems to be the model of the government, I welcome the Minister of Education at my press conference on Wednesday 23 March at 2.30 p.m. 10, when we from the Swedish Democrats intend to release a new policy.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-315	Mr President, I would like to I do not intend to have sjanghaja sverige-democratic policy. That's not what happened last night either. But yesterday there was a very important effort, namely that we strengthen the focus on schools in the toughest areas by also having the opportunity to appoint more first teachers and more lecturers and also use that money to invest in leadership, i.e. salary costs for principals. We will ensure that we have our best schools in the most vulnerable areas. This is how you reduce the gaps that have had to be widened in Sweden. That's how you build society.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-318	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. Before I became a member of Parliament, I worked as a teacher at Västerskolan, grades 7 to 9, in Hässleholm Municipality. Last week I received an email from one of my old students who talked about problems she knows at school. It is stress, anxiety, and lack of sleep because of the situation in school. She also announced that she is experiencing this also from her teachers. There were a number of students who e-mailed me. They said, among other things, that it might be because of the new rating system. They felt that it was difficult to reach high grades and that it was very resource-intensive for teachers. The email continued with other things. But one of the things I read was about today's work situation in our schools. It's something I can relate to from my time as a teacher.
i-JSkcHzGYYXskJ73FJx9mWf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Wallentheim! It's just like Anna Wallentheim describes it. The work situation of our children is characterised by the work situation of our teachers. If the teachers do not have a good working situation, it is difficult to create a good and safe working environment for the students. We are currently in talks with the parties within what is called the National collection for the teaching profession to see how we can strengthen the work for a better working environment for our teachers. For example, it is about how to get a good relief in your job as a teacher, how the state contribution for employees in schools works well and how to reduce the burden that exists in the form of national tests. We have already, in broad agreement, reduced the number of compulsory tests and are moving towards digitalisation. Anna Wallentheim mentioned the rating system. Yes, it was introduced in such a way that it did not everywhere come to be interpreted as intended when it was done. This has meant that in many cases the lessons have been perceived as broken in different moments, where you have to perform high on all the elements.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-324	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Education for his reply. I think one of the important things is that we have to start to venture into school, give more resources, make sure the school gets peace and quiet. We need a situation where teachers have time to be teachers and students get a chance to be seen. You started answering a little bit about the grade system. I want to bring it up again. That is exactly what Belle, as my former student was called, raised and meant was the problem. You're welcome to continue and say how you view the rating system. Have you received any other signals from outside?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-326	Mr President, I would like to I have to answer Belle: As far as the grading system is concerned, it may well be the right idea with the various elements. But it wasn't based on having a moment first, being done with it and then having the next moment – and somehow there will never be any possibility of progression. The whole point of the school is that you should know a little more at the end of a course than you could at the beginning of it, that you should learn along the journey. Then the elements must work in parallel, and you must be able to get back to them. To ensure this, we have given the Swedish National Agency for Education a mission to review the rating scale and the parts belonging to the rating scale. They will also be able to come back with proposals to improve school implementation.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-329	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Secretary of State. The war in Syria has been going on for five years. There are a few shreds of hope because we now see a truce or a pause in hostilities, or in the fighting as it really is called. On Monday, the Russian President Vladimir Putin also announced that Russia will now withdraw militarily from Syria. Putin noted that the military work in Syria as a whole was finished. I would like to know what the Foreign Minister's assessment is. Is this something that we can look forward to, that Russia will indeed withdraw from Syria with its military forces, and could this be the beginning of a more constructive line on the part of Russia in this very difficult conflict?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-333	Mr President, I would like to What an urgent question! Credibility depends on Russia showing that they are really doing what they have promised to do. My analysis is that Russia probably estimates that they have achieved their goals in Syria. Here they have suddenly got a role on the global stage. They're important. The United States is calling Russia and talking to Putin. They have won geopolitically what they wanted. Militaryly, they can also be satisfied. They have ensured that Asad remains an important player and will be involved in the negotiations. We should not be deceived by this. It is important that they now take confidence-building measures, namely ceasefire, and ensure that humanitarian actors have access to besieged cities. That's the only way we can assess whether they're serious.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-335	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is necessary to follow closely what Russia is actually doing in practical action, because we have seen too many times that there has been a great difference between them – we should be uncertain and believe one thing, and then there is the other. But what can Sweden and the Foreign Minister do to make Russia more constructive through the EU and through the UN in a conflict that really needs to be resolved for the people who are on the run and who are still in Syria?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-337	Mr President, I would like to It is about keeping up the pressure, managing this in multilateral fora but also bilaterally, ensuring that we operate primarily via the European Union and demanding that they live up to their commitments. In addition, we are helping in practical terms to ensure that women also have a voice in these negotiations. We have ensured that women's participation is funded and that they can also have their views expressed. We will therefore continue on all three tracks as long as necessary.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-340	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. One of this government's absolute first decisions after taking office was to close the Elder investigation. Then they haussed their own investment in the elderly area but curiously forgot to tell them that they mainly financed it by scrapping a number of important investments in the elderly area. Among other things, they removed the Meal Lift. Both employees and managers in care for the elderly were removed, not least the dementia plan was scrapped and the retirement home guarantee was also scrapped. This week there was a report from a number of researchers showing that within 15 years in Sweden alone we will see that the number of people with dementia increases from about 160 000 to 250 000 people. My question to the Government is: can you admit that it was wrong to close the Dementia Plan?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-344	Mr President, I would like to I thank Emma Henriksson for the question. This is a very important subject to discuss, not just from an elderly care point of view and not only from the perspective of the elderly, but of course from the perspective of health care. What we are doing now, above all, in the field of dementia – the responsibility lies primarily with my colleague Åsa Regnér – is that we are active both nationally and internationally and that we intend to develop a new strategy in the field of dementia in order to deal with this huge challenge that we are facing. We believe that this is a better way to go than the previous venture.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-346	Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid that sounds a little bit like I feared. You scrap important investments, you close an investigation to start a new investigation and you lose momentum in a very important job. Dementia is something very serious and causes suffering both for the individual and for all the relatives affected. I will come back to the fact that it is now a research group with representatives from around ten different countries who say that there is a need for a dementia plan at European level but above all at national level. The question is therefore: will you resume work on a dementia plan?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-350	Mr President, I would like to I think that I and Emma Henriksson are in complete agreement on this issue. It is a major challenge that we have to face at different levels and not least at national level. We will now come up with a strategy to better deal with the enormous pressure it might otherwise be, not least on health care.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-352	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Gabriel Wikström. In 2011, county councils and regions spent SEK 2.45 billion on hired personnel. This figure has only been added. Last year they spent SEK 3.41 billion on hired personnel – 85 percent to relay doctors. At BB Sophia, which was the flagship of the Alliance here in Stockholm and which has fallen like the Vasa ship, the costs have been completely astronomical. The specialists have been offered up to 150 000 SEK per week in salary and 22 950 SEK for an on-call pass. As a comparison, they receive 9 152 SEK within Stockholm County Council for an on-call pass. Health care is drained on money, and our tax money disappears in this way. My question to you, Gabriel Wikström, is: How are we going to move forward, and how can we minimise the cost of hired health care personnel?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-357	Mr President, I would like to This, too, is a major challenge facing us. I think we have two main courses of action on the table. One is that we must continue the work that the government has begun to improve the provision of skills throughout health care. It is about what we previously had a debate about, that is, more effective care and a more effective care organisation. It is also about the dimensioning of education, where the government is making great efforts to expand not least nursing and midwifery education. It is also, of course, a question of seeing how leadership can contribute to a better distribution and a better situation in the workplace. But in addition to this, it is also important to look specifically at the problems that Karin Rågsjö addresses. That is where the main responsibility lies with the social partners and perhaps especially with employers. For my part, I have said that the government is happy to help in this work. If different changes need to be made at national level, we can be helpful.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-360	Mr President, I would like to SKL has also looked at this. It's going a little slow. Do you think, Gabriel Wikström, you can put a little more pressure on this? This means that there will be a lot of turning doors. Doctors come and go, and ill health persists, you might say.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-361	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Karin Rågsjö says, that this is a problem not only because it drives costs in the business but also because it reduces continuity and not least coordination in the healthcare sector. My picture is that you work very hard on this from SKL's side. The management of SKL has recently been changed, and the new management has identified this as a priority. In this work, the government is happy to act as an experienced and good partner.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-363	Mr President, I would like to I also put my question to Mr Wikström, and it concerns the right of asylum seekers to emergency dental care. The cost of this is regulated by the Migration Agency, which pays a flat-rate sum to the county council. It is also said that you should turn to Folktandvården, which is extremely strange when half of all dental care is conducted privately. The asylum seekers can turn to a private dentist, but then they have to sleep with the money and send the invoice to the Migration Agency. So they don't do this. The result has been huge queues for Folktandsvården. We now know that children and young people are allowed to sit in between, because their visiting intervals are extended, and they are the ones who need dental treatment the most. Now the Minister has promised on several occasions that the matter will be reviewed, but nothing has happened. Why is nothing happening on this issue?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-367	Mr President, I would like to We know that some county councils already use private dental practitioners. It is just as Solveig Zander says so that private dental practitioners are a very important player in the dental sector. So it is clear that in this area too they have a natural role to play. This is also a point that is high on the SKL agenda in discussions with the government on how to improve the situation of asylum seekers, and this applies not least in the healthcare sector. It is clear that there are details that are not entirely easy to sort out and balances to do that are not entirely easy. That's what makes it take time. Another reason, of course, is that there are very many issues that have had to be resolved at the same time when the reception of refugees was as large as it was during the months of the autumn.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-369	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson has also been asked in this House, and he has also promised that you would review this. We know that we need freedom of choice in this area and that we need short queues. Then we also need to have a simpler framework for private dentists when it comes to receiving asylum seekers. I ask again: when is the government able to do something about this? Why is action not being shown on this important issue?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-371	Mr President, I would like to I think we have shown a great deal of action in this area. We anticipated at an early stage that this would pose challenges for healthcare and that it would pose challenges on a broad front. This means that we have given a number of assignments to our authorities to both improve the knowledge situation and better disseminate the knowledge and information available to the county councils. We have seen this as a way forward to remedy some of the shortcomings that exist. As I said, we are looking at the kind of questions Solveig Zander is asking.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-373	Mr President, I would like to In May, the Minister for Culture demolished the film agreement and promised a bill before the end of the year. This was not the case – a proposal was only put on the table of Parliament on Tuesday. It is an unskillable handling that has put Filmsverige in a very uncertain position. Views may have been made on the previous film agreement, but one of the advantages was that it reduced for real collaboration and influence from the various parties in the industry in terms of both funding and content. Now the Minister for Culture has thrown this collaboration overboard. There is talk of influence, but it is not. All power is now concentrated in the Swedish Film Institute, SFI. A number of opinion groups should be set up in the form of industry councils, but they do not have decision-making power or real influence. They may think, but they must not make decisions. Their views can be dealt with as they please, and it is also SFI itself that will appoint the industry councils. The possibility of influence that previously existed in the form of board positions was scrapped. My question is in what way it benefits Swedish film to so completely hand over power to an independent foundation and at the same time strangle the industry's opportunity for collaboration and real influence.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-376	Mr President, Members of Parliament and all the speakers! Filmsverige, the Swedish film industry, has had many and long difficult years. What we are doing now when we are doing about film policy in Sweden is giving back power to those who actually make film – to those who are struggling and perhaps even working extra in home care or other professions to get their film together. This applies to masks, screenwriters and all those who day in and day out have worked for their passion but not been allowed to sit and decide. I understand that this is shocking for the few actors who have sat around the table, because they lose power when we give power to the people – to the film people, that is, those who actually make movies. Now we are setting up three industry councils to ensure that there is influence from those who actually make films. SFI, on the other hand, has had completely changed working conditions, and it will be a delicate task for SFI to do what is stated in the bill. You have to interact with the industry. For the first time in many, many years, SFI must collaborate with the industry. The three sectoral councils have the right of initiative.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-378	Mr President, I would like to To offer influence as the Minister of Culture does is like offering a chicken farm to a castrated rooster. They talk about collaboration and a new film policy, but this is not a new film policy – it is a delegated film policy. All power is transferred to a private law foundation in the form of SFI. The only thing that's left is basically the same old goal but with a single new word. In the case of those who may decide, the SFI may decide for itself who should be responsible for transparency, and may also determine indicators for compliance with targets. We've received the bill. We thank it for it and will come back to how we should react to it.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-380	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson! This is new to many. It's new to share power. But it can't have happened to anyone who loves Swedish film that there have been very few actors around the decision-making table and that the actors slowly but surely fell off. In addition, there have been short contracts, so the conditions for making long-term productions and planning have been non-existent. Let's change this. It's a big change – it may be one of the biggest cultural policy changes I make during my term of office – but it's much needed. This is good for Swedish film.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-383	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, and it concerns freedom of expression and an independent press. A free, independent press and freedom of expression are fundamental foundations of modern democracy, and unfortunately these democratic foundations are under threat in many countries. Recently we have seen how Turkey has closed down newspapers and how Poland's new media law gives the government increased control over state media. This is something that should be contrary to EU rules on media freedom. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is how Sweden acts bilaterally, towards Turkey and Poland, and in the EU to highlight issues of freedom of expression and media in general and in relation to precisely Poland and Turkey.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-385	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Olle Thorell! The government has, of course, expressed concern when we see that the core values of the European Union are being called into question. All the Member States have a responsibility to live up to our common values – respect for the rule of law, human rights, democracy and freedom of expression and speech. We have welcomed the decision of the European Commission to enter into a structured dialogue, as it is called, with Poland and also the fact that the Venice Commission has given its opinion within the framework of the Council of Europe. We now assume that Poland will take account of the recommendations made by the Commission. We are, of course, following developments both in Poland and in Turkey very closely. We are protesting when necessary, and we are also following up very closely what is happening on the ground. Not least with regard to Turkey, it is a question of possibly opening new chapters where we have the chance to follow developments very closely. Progress has gone in the wrong direction.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-387	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I would like to ask further about this and wonder what methods and pressure the Foreign Minister thinks would be most effective for Poland to guarantee freedom of expression once again and for Turkey to work towards a free and independent press.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-388	Mr President, I would like to We will operate bilaterally, and we will operate via the European Union. We shall operate through all the platforms we have to ensure that there are also legal consequences where it is necessary to press on and drive development in the right direction. I also believe in cooperation with civil society. It is very brave people who are prepared to pursue these issues, and that is the right way forward. I also believe in drawing attention to this, as is done in parliaments around the world.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-390	Mr President, I would like to Turkey is a country with an extremely dubious relationship with democracy and human rights. In 2015, the New York-based Committee for the Protection of Journalists ranked Turkey fifth worst in the world regarding the imprisonment of journalists. At the same time, we see clear signs that the regime is continuing its repression of the Kurds, and that the ceasefire with the PKK has also been broken. In addition, Turkish military forces have been deployed in a foreign country to prevent Kurdish autonomous rule in northern Syria. The list can be made much longer, but my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether it is really desirable for the government, despite Turkey's persistent violation, to tie the country closer to the EU and, furthermore, to offer the regime money and its citizens visa-free status. 36 out of 72 visa-free requirements are not met by Turkey.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-392	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Markus Wiechel for the question. We need to do two things at once. We need to keep up the pressure on Turkey to push developments in the right direction to deal with what we have seen and those who are very problematic – not least how to attack the Kurds while at the same time there has been a decline in human rights and democracy in Turkey. We are doing this, above all, through a process that has already been established in which we are discussing how to push for the opening of new chapters. However, we must also work with Turkey to find a solution to the problem of refugees, to put an end to trafficking in human beings and to hopefully move towards orderly and secure migration. It is this balancing process, which indeed contains many pitfalls and which is difficult, which the European Union has embarked on at the moment.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-396	Mr President, I would like to I think it is regrettable that the government does not take this seriously and rely on a rogue state like Turkey, because that is exactly what the government is doing. As a result of the current negotiations, the Turkish regime is playing with Europe again and putting further pressure on Europe, which is unnecessary and very stupid. That is something that we are going to be hit very hard by. Is it not time to make use of the exception rule already contained in the Treaty of Lisbon?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-399	Mr President, I would like to Our starting point in the negotiations is that Turkey should respect the EU and international law when concluding an agreement with the countries. It is an advantage that we can sit around the same table and discuss both our demands and the possibilities for solutions. This is what it looks like. There are already millions of refugees in Turkey, and we have a reality to consider. We can think what we want. In fact, we have to deal with a very difficult reality here, and that is what we are trying to do with Turkey.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-403	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Gustav Fridolin. Prior to the election, Gustav Fridolin was very clear and made a very clear pledge from the Green Party, that the Green Party would never act to stop people from coming to Sweden. That's when. Now he is in the government implementing perhaps Europe's most restrictive migration policy. He has also gone out saying that he believes that the Green Party was naive in the past and made unrealistic demands. This is a reversal that we from the Moderates think is a positive repositioning. But just a few days ago you could see Gustav Fridolin in the TV box where he said: The new direction of politics is shit and he wants to go back to the previous order. I have a very simple question for Gustav Fridolin: What does the Green Party really want?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-408	Mr President, I would like to I can answer that question very simply. Both the Green Party and this government want to do everything we can to help the people who are fleeing one of the worst wars we have seen and in the worst refugee disaster since the Second World War. That is why our government has been responsible in a situation where Sweden has received more people and given more people a sanctuary than ever before in our history. And we continue to protect people. The Finnish Immigration Service's calculations show that this year, too, we will provide more people with protection than we have done in most years earlier in our history. We do it because we are responsible. But we know that if we are to succeed in helping more people, the whole of Europe must be involved in taking responsibility. If only a few countries bear the full responsibility, we cannot do it. More countries have to do their bit. We are working hard for this in the EU and in other international fora where the opportunity is given.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-411	Mr President, I would like to I do not even believe that the most inveterate environmentalist core voters were convinced by this answer given by Gustav Fridolin. Now the Green Party is in and for the most restrictive migration policy across Europe. And again, the Moderates support that direction. At the same time, however, we cannot give the impression that – as we thought earlier – it should in principle be free and open immigration. Gustav Fridolin has said that he wants to go back to the old. Make a clear statement! Are you going to continue to pursue restrictive policies?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-414	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I know the Moderates want to pursue the most restrictive policy ever pursued. Sometimes I miss the good negotiating partner on migration issues that I had in Fredrik Reinfeldt. Then we had the opportunity to lay the foundations for a good functioning migration policy. The Green Party intends to continue to work towards a good functioning migration policy. Now that other countries of the European Union have refused to take responsibility, we are forced to introduce a law that is certainly not the worst in the European Union, but it is at the minimum level of international law. That law is temporary, Fredrik Schulte.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-417	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Sport Gabriel Wikström. On the day of the sports gala, the Minister of Sport opened the door to an independent anti-doping organization. Recent events in sport, including the suspension of the Russian track and field team, have once again brought to light the anti-doping work. Nevertheless, the problem is increasingly common in sports, which means that we should raise our eyes outside the framework of elite sports. The use of anabolic steroids is now increasingly common among regular exercisers, making doping more a public health problem than a sports problem. It is time to take a broader approach to anti-doping work. I know that the Minister has previously replied that there is a preparation in progress on this issue. Nevertheless, I would like to know a little more about the Minister's thoughts on this very important issue.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-422	Mr President, I would like to As Mrs Quicklund points out, this is a much broader issue than just the traditional sports movement. However, it is important to see that the sports movement must continue to play a major role in anti-doping work. This is a problem that occurs both in sports and in sport. In order to strengthen the work that has been going on for several years, and which is still ongoing, the government's budget increased the contributions to anti-doping work within the Swedish Sports Federation by over 20 per cent. In the strategy we have presented to the Council on a comprehensive drugs, doping and alcohol policy, we have pointed out the importance of greater coordination in this area. However, as Mrs Quicklund says, the report Antidoping Sweden is still being prepared within the Government Office.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-426	Mr President, I would like to I lack clarity in the process. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that it is extremely important for Sweden to be able to comply with the European Council Convention against Doping, which indicates that all organised sport is covered by the Anti-Doping Convention. It is about the credibility of sport, but it is also about human health. That is why I think it is so important that we now move on to this issue of a national anti-doping institute.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-428	Mr President, I would like to I think me and Saila Quicklund are very much in agreement on this point. We both see the major problem of doping, not least in sports. I do not think I have been unclear in this debate. As I said, we are taking a wide range of measures. Not least, we invest considerably more money. As far as the specific issue is concerned, it is still being prepared within the Government Office.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-432	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke. Over the past few years, many creative entrepreneurs have started a variety of digital services in the form of books, music, film and computer games based on the internet. This leads to more jobs and new businesses. It also meets the demand and great interest of consumers. These creative industries, as they are called, really have the potential to be a sustainable growth engine for Sweden. But those who will live off their talent and creativity face new and rather complex challenges. In this context, copyright is important. Illegal competition in the form of piracy threatens this activity. I understand that the Minister for Culture and Democracy, like me, is meeting with some people in the field. I would like to ask how to take advantage of the creative industries so that they can be competitive in the digital market in the future.
i-CnYUDjdeSFdQEtECf6n652	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for the question! Copyright law, which is the law that we have, is challenged. We are a government that wants it to pay to work with culture and to get paid for its work. Unfortunately, this work, which needs to be carried out, has been characterised by conflicts between different interests. But for the first time, we now have the whole food chain together. I have started work and have appointed Helena Dyrssen as the head of a working group. She will make suggestions on how we can work to strengthen existing copyright legislation with activities and concrete proposals that can turn into policies that give cultural workers a better opportunity than they do today to get paid for what they do.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-438	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is gratifying that the Minister for Culture and Democracy sees the important contribution of creative industries to competitiveness. In times of automation and robotics, I believe that these industries are becoming increasingly important, and we must take advantage of the power and creativity born of human creation. It is good that respect for copyright is highlighted. This will enable us to allay the concerns of the industry in the future.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-439	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, and it's not just a worry. The illegal commercial handling of films, for example, is a major problem. It erodes much of the creativity and funding that the film needs. That is why we have now put forward a film policy that will create better conditions. There are several different industries that need copyright legislation that works. That is precisely why we also need to work on the instruments we have alongside legislation. This can range from information campaigns to knowledge applicants.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-441	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. The government today made a decision on host country agreements with NATO. The bill will be sent to Parliament on Tuesday. The host country agreement is good for Sweden given the more worried security situation and makes it easier for joint exercises, among other things. Of course, membership of NATO would have been at its best. The host country agreement will be discussed in Parliament by the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, on which I assume that the Foreign Policy spokesperson of the Green Party will be included. Together with several other members of the Environment Party, he has repeatedly dissociated himself from the idea of a host country agreement with NATO. Is it not a problem of credibility for the whole government when a leading representative of a government party does not stand up for the common policy? Can Minister Fridolin guarantee that all representatives of the government parties in the committee are behind the government proposal?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-444	Mr President, I would like to I won't use my minute to question what party the Moderates are. Obviously, there is no way of having different views on important and difficult issues that can be turned around and discussed. However, in my party there is that possibility. I think the host country agreement is good. The government's line is clear. We are in favour of a host country agreement, but we are against NATO membership. That is important, because our basis for being able to say that Sweden should continue to be an alliance-free country is that we take part in international cooperation in various forms. The possibility of host country support in exercises, for example, is a starting point for good international cooperation. That is what is regulated in the agreement that has now been submitted to Parliament.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-446	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Government is in favour of the host country agreement, but the Government did not answer my question. I would like to know whether it can be guaranteed that all the members of the Government Party on the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence will be behind the host country agreement.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-447	Mr President, I would like to When dealing with an issue in Parliament's committees, it is obviously handled by the government's parties on the basis of the government's policy. I can guarantee you that.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-449	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address a question to the Minister for Culture. Loved child has a lot of names, you'd say. Surely, dear reforms can have it too. What we started by calling a cultural initiative in millions of programme areas was gradually described as a cultural initiative in socially vulnerable areas. The Parliament's decision in December stated that there were cultural activities in certain residential areas. Now the bet has got a slightly more poetic name, Own room. It's a big bet. In the parliamentary decision in December, we allocated SEK 50 million. I would like to ask the Minister for Culture how the work is moving forward, so that Own room can really take place.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-451	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question and the opportunity to talk about it. Own room is the name of a major investment with 130 million over the term of office for cultural activities and activities outside our metropolitan areas. It is so cleverly written that the funds should not be applied for solely by a municipality or a public actor, but it must be a civil society organisation that applies for it together with the private business community and perhaps a municipal activity. There must be a civil society organisation, and it must come from residents in the area who want to use the money. You should be able to use the money because you want to rehearse with bands in a room, because you want to dream or maybe because you want to develop a digital technology. It's incredibly open, by our standards. There are unlimited definitions of what to say in advance to do for the funds.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-454	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture very much for the answer! Next year there will be 50 million, and now we are told that there may be 130 million during the term of office. I would like to say that this is cultural activity where it is perhaps most needed to stimulate children and young people to take advantage of their own creative desire.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-455	Mr President, I would like to These funds, the 130 million for cultural activities outside our urban areas, are to be based on the residents in collaboration with others. This is unique, and it can be repeated all the time to make people understand that this is opportunity. I also expect the proposals that come in to be courageous and that we are trying to break new ground. There is a lot of commitment that needs to be channelled.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-456	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Health Gabriel Wikström. We have many new people who come to our country with a great deal of knowledge in health care. Today, too, we have major shortcomings in several professions and difficulties in recruiting skills. In health care, parallel systems have been built up, including the rental medical system, which is both economically expensive and provides poor quality for those seeking care. In order for more new arrivals to get into work, you can improve the validation of people's skills, which is a development of the Swedish model, instead of lowering wages. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's processing times for the assessment of foreign health care programmes, which are the first step in a validation process to obtain, for example, Swedish medical identification, have long been too long. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Health: what has the government done about this, and what has been the result so far?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-458	Mr President, I would like to This is an important area Mikael Dahlqvist addresses. As Mikael Dahlqvist pointed out, the processing times at the National Board of Health and Welfare have been far too long. For example, at the end of last year, the processing time of a specialist medical licence was 18 months. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. During last year, the government therefore invested a total of SEK 18 million extra on the National Board of Health and Welfare for this work. I can see that this money, together with a fantastic effort from the National Board of Health and Welfare itself to redo routines and work organisation, has led to the waiting time for specialist doctors going from 18 to 8 months, as it is now in March. We are naturally not satisfied with this. M a forecast is that the development will continue in the right direction, and that is a good first effort.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-460	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wikström for his reply. This is very pleasing to hear. I think that we talk too many times about the challenges of the refugee crisis. I think we should talk about possibilities. We have an asset. We know that we have a major shortage in many professions in the country, especially in health care. That is why this is an important issue, Gabriel, especially for rural areas, primary care and the smaller hospitals, where the crisis is severe and the shortage is great.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-462	Mr President, I would like to Of course, as Mikael Dahlqvist is at work, it can be a very great opportunity for health care. In order to further reduce the processing times not only for specialist doctors but for all the licence professions handled by the National Board of Health and Welfare, the Government will invest an additional SEK 65 million this year and SEK 42 million long-term per year from next year. We believe that this will greatly reduce the length of proceedings.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-463	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture Alice Alice Kuhnke. My colleague Per-Per-Arne Håkansson asked a very important question about copyright in the film industry in particular. I would like to follow up on that question by asking a question about the illegal downloading of films which is an enormous problem for which we must find a cure. Mr President, I would like to It is estimated that it is illegally downloaded in Sweden for over 800 million SEK. I would like to put a question to the Minister for Culture, because she said that there is an answer to this in the film policy bill. What are the main efforts proposed by the Minister for Culture to stop illegal downloading?
i-URkme5gJAgMGnGkfNS9DCx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Cecilia Magnusson, for the question! It is just as Cecilia Magnusson describes. The commercial illegal downloading is a major problem for the Swedish film industry. When the government now presents a new policy for Swedish film, it is of course important that we do everything we can to strengthen the film's chances of survival. That's also why I've gathered the whole industry. The whole food chain sits for the first time around the same table. On the basis of the Commission's directives, we are working on proposals to combat illegal downloading. There are a number of tools that have been tried in our neighbouring countries that we have not yet tried here in Sweden. I don't know why the previous government didn't get to grips with this, but now we do. We will do everything we can to work out tools that counteract the illegal download.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-469	Mr President, I would like to I am grateful for my second speech, because I would like answers to the proposals contained in the film bill. Are there any proposals to extend the sentence period for this, to block sites or the proposals we have put forward to impair illegal downloading in this country? Are there any answers in the film bill that the government has?
i-ECV26XWtJbHysLz3DVvkKG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Cecilia Magnusson! Copyright and the law we have affect many more areas – I hope Cecilia Magnusson knows as a cultural politician – than just the film. It is therefore important that we have a round table which also includes literature, art and the whole of cultural policy and not just film. That's why it's not in the movie bill. We're working on it on the side. We have for the first time everyone at the table. We have set up a working group led by one of the directors of the Skat Tea Agency, Helena Dyrssen. On 1 July I will receive the proposal.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-473	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. Over the next five years, the government will invest almost 3 billion to improve health care aimed at women. National guidelines for endometriosis have also been adopted. That's very positive. There is another disease, lipedema, which affects almost 10 percent of women after puberty. These women almost lack care in Sweden. Ignorance is frighteningly great. The majority will have to wait many years for the correct diagnosis, and some will never get it. Lipedema is a chronic genetic disorder of the adipose tissue. Lipedema is not a fat depot due to obesity but to diseased changes in fat cells that increase size only in certain special places.
i-CBB2qYFJycsvu5R6sLUCWi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for the question! It is very difficult to generally increase the knowledge of diseases that we know today that there is a lack of knowledge and awareness of in health care. Then, of course, national guidelines and other knowledge support are absolutely invaluable. As Marianne Pettersson pointed out, the government is now investing heavily in women's health. One part of this is to raise awareness that we know too little in healthcare about women's health. We will also see how we can strengthen that knowledge. Whether it will then result in concrete national guidelines within the disease that Marianne Pettersson raises up or some other form of knowledge support is far too early to say. But we're making a big effort in this area.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-481	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. All efforts made to raise awareness of these diseases, which largely only affect women, benefit both the individual and society. Many women do not have to go through costly and ineffective treatments.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-482	Mr President, I would like to As I was aware in my previous reply, I believe the major challenge for us and the most important issue to solve is to raise awareness in health care that today there is unequal care between men and women and that women's problems, typical diseases and conditions that primarily affect women are not always recognised. If we can do that, we've come a long way.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-484	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Education. A national concern is that the search pressure for professional programmes is down. Some have blamed the new high school. But the truth is that it is an international trend that began much earlier. We believe in more information, better guidance counsellors and getting the social partners into upper secondary school. The high school inquiry is now considering compulsory university qualifications, even though the industry and industry are warning against receiving from the 2,500 points. I would like to ask the Minister for Education whether he believes that this is the best way and effective way to get the pressure on vocational programmes to make university qualifications compulsory.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-487	Mr President, I would like to We see a connection between removing university qualifications and reducing the search pressure. That is not the only reason why the search pressure was reduced, but there is a direct connection. That's because young people don't want to close doors. If you want to work in the construction sector, you do not want to have the door closed because at some point in the future you choose to train as a construction engineer. If you want to work in health care, you do not want to have the door closed because at some point in the future choose to train from assistant to nurse. If you are not confident about obtaining a higher education qualification, there is a risk that you will experience a professional programme as something that closes the door, even if it is not always so. That has been our starting point. Now an investigation is being carried out, where I know that Michael Svensson participates actively through the Moderates. Let's see what we come up with. The common starting point must reasonably be to increase the search pressure. One thing that Michael Svensson says that I think we can do much faster, and that we do much faster, is to look at the need for better study and career guidance. There we devote considerable resources to the further training of guidance counselors.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-492	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to mention the SYVs. It is today a low-status profession in the teaching profession. There are different types of education and knowledge. It is generally rather poor knowledge of the labour market, not least for the programmes available in high school. It is a common problem for both primary and secondary school SYVs. I want to know a little bit what the Minister of Education has in mind to raise the status and attractiveness of the country's SUVs.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-493	Mr President, I would like to One of the important things is to show what an extremely crucial role a study and career counselor can play in ensuring that we solve some of the major problems we have in the labour market with mismatches, gender inequality and a highly gender-segregated labour market. That's where we put training resources. I know there's something also supported by the Moderates, and I think that's good. Another thing that concerns my responsibility at the Ministry of Education, comprehensive school, is to get study and career guidance already into the education.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-495	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mrs Wallström my question. Every year, over half a million girls and women around the world die from pregnancy - related causes, and nearly 9 million girls and women are injured because of the same causes. In developing countries, it is the most common cause of death for girls aged 15 to 19. There are, of course, many reasons for this. Of course, a fundamental reason is poverty but also lack of self-determination over one's own body, which takes the form of abortion bans, child marriages, sexual violence and so on.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-499	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. When I was just two weeks ago in Bombo, Congo, I met a clinic of a girl who was just a child but had just had a little girl. We thought it was perhaps the result of a rape or, at least, an abuse. She had had to leave school, and her opportunity to create a life for herself and her daughter was, of course, small. Part of our feminist foreign policy is that in our action plan for this year we should give priority to the issue of sexual and reproductive health. It is important that this is integrated as a natural part of not least all our development policies but also in development projects. We must ensure that this is done. It is important for women and girls and for developments around the world.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-503	Mr President, I would like to I'm really glad. It is not always thought of the rights of girls and women when talking about human rights. But it's a matter of life or death for girls and women, so it's extremely important. We know that women are poorer than men if we compare directly across the world. It is hitting hard in this area too. And, of course, self-determination over one's own body is unconditional.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-506	Mr President, I would like to In the end, it is also associated with the economic empowerment of women. In this way, these issues are interrelated. We have also successfully conducted a campaign called Midwives for All, which is about creating awareness of the role of midwives around the world to provide women and girls with the right assistance when they are about to give birth. In a number of areas we are very active and, as I said, this is a natural part of feminist foreign policy.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-510	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Foreign Minister a question. Following the coup d'état in June 2009, the climate of human rights activists, indigenous peoples activists and environmentalists in Honduras has become dramatically tougher. On March 3, Cáceres Berta was murdered in Honduras. She was the leader of the Indigenous Group of the Indigenous Peoples and the organization Copinh. She was an internationally renowned environmental and human rights activist who for years fought to defend the territory of the Leninese people, threatened by mining and hydroelectric projects. Despite years of threats and harassment, Cáceres Berta lacked police protection. The murder took place only days after her peaceful protest against a dam.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-513	Mr President, I would like to I have, of course, noted this with dismay, and it is very important that attention be paid to it, that it be followed up, that justice be done and that those responsible be held accountable. It is important that the outside world reacts, just as Marco Venega does here and as we have seen is also happening around the world.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-514	Mr President, I would like to My question is: what can the Swedish Government do to improve the situation of the indigenous peoples of Honduras and to ensure that it lives up to the freedom of expression, the rule of law and the rights of indigenous peoples? I was told today that another member of Copinh was murdered two days ago.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-516	Mr President, I would like to What we can do is use our political and diplomatic contacts. We can also ensure that this type of problem is addressed through financial assistance, development aid or aid activities. That's how we have to follow up.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-517	Mr President, I would like to As has been said before, practice, cooperation and cooperation with other countries are part of Swedish defence, foreign and security policy. That is why I have a question for Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, who is about the fact that the U.S. commander of the army forces in Europe, Ben Hodges, recently expressed an idea that one could practice with the Patriot system on Swedish soil. I asked Minister Hultqvist a question about the government's position on this. In his reply to me, he noted that no formal request had been made, so there is nothing to deal with. Mr President, I would like to It's a bit like in Jeopardy, where Magnus Härenstam formulated the answer and the contestants asked the question – that is, a little as you ask, you get answers. Therefore, my fundamental question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: what view does she have of the idea that one could practice with Patriot systems in Sweden?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-521	Mr President, I would like to I have no answer other than what Mr Wallmark has already received from the Minister for Defence. If so, see what that would mean. What would that mean in terms of commitments on our part? What would that bring about in terms of our defence policy development and security? I cannot answer this in detail, because it is only when we have seen what it would mean in full for us that we can take a stand.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-524	Mr President, I would like to Basically, it is a question of whether one is more positive or more negative. For my part, I think that we should be positive because we build safety with other countries through practice, training, collaboration and cooperation. It would have been desirable for the government to send the signal that it would be interesting to look at the possibility of working with the US to station Patriot systems in Sweden. The Foreign Minister is now being given the opportunity to send this signal.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-526	Mr President, I would like to If the question is whether we are positive or negative, we will always respond that we are positive. We are in favour of discussing and examining such a proposal and seeing what it would mean before we finally take a position on it. But as Hans Wallmark knows, we are in favour of cooperation. The starting point for our entire defence and security policy is that we cooperate widely with many different partners. Not least, transatlantic cooperation is very extensive, and we have strengthened it. That is why we are always open to looking at new proposals.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-529	Mr President, I would like to Let's talk about film for a little while, so my question goes to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. Last Tuesday, the government submitted the bill More film to more people to the Riksdag. The focus on the development of the new film policy has been clear. I have lost track of how many times I have heard the Minister of Culture say that there will be more money for Swedish film and that more will have influence. The proposed vision in the bill reads: a Swedish film must have high quality and exhibit such breadth and diversity of stories that it concerns everyone. Swedish film should be an obvious and accessible choice for the audience throughout the country and attractive internationally. ..................................................... In the vision, I read geographical spread as a priority. If Swedish film is to have such a breadth and diversity of stories that it concerns everyone, it includes showing images and environments that everyone can recognize in. Then you need to spread the production throughout the country. If Swedish film is to be an obvious and accessible choice for the audience, it must also be shown throughout the country.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-534	Mr President, I would like to I thank the fast talking Linus Sköld. Swedish film needs better conditions. One of the parties to the agreement who dropped out was the regions. In Sweden's regions a lot of film is made. They are key players, so what we really highlight in the bill and have emphasised in all our meetings with the regions over the last year and a half is the importance of our working together. Now we are going to set the forms for this collaboration. We have already had continuous meetings, and we know that in order for the regions to dare to go in with additional funding and dare to invest in producing Swedish film, they want to know what other conditions they have. Together with the bottom plate that the government is now laying for Swedish film, where we take full responsibility, and with the additional financiers SVT and TV4, the regions will have even better conditions and support in their important work.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-537	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Culture. The Minister for Culture wrote in his debate article at the DN Debate last week that the film regions play a central role, that is, in principle, the same thing that we were told in the reply just now. I am interested more specifically in the interaction between the state and the regional level. What does the Minister of Culture think that this collaboration may look like?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-539	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let's work together and talk about our plans. Right now we have not had such discussions at all. Me and my associates need to sit down with the regions and talk to find out what their plans are. These are three, five and ten-year plans. We're gonna sit together and discuss it. We also need to ensure together, and it is also in the interests of the regions, that there are cinemas that work in rural areas. Therefore, we make an extra effort on rural cinemas, both to strengthen existing and to start new cinemas. All the people of our country should have access to film.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-542	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. It is unacceptable for people around Sweden to feel that it is difficult to get in touch with healthcare. There are major differences between our county councils. Some county councils do not meet the requirements of the national health guarantee. As has been said, waiting time in care differs. In January, 96% of patients in moderate-controlled Halland received treatment in specialised care within the 90 days of the guarantee, unlike Västernorrland, where 61% of patients received it. What are your concrete proposals to create more coherent care chains or to continue short waiting times and queues? It is a work that the Alliance began and worked on. And what are you going to do specifically to do this now that Sweden has lost investments in terms of waiting times in Europe?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-545	Mr President, I would like to I think it is appropriate to start by pointing out that this has been a work at national level for a long time. The health guarantee was introduced under a Social Democratic government. What we are now doing is trying, in a different way than during the time of the alliance government in power, to tackle what is at the root of the problem of the growing queues in health care. It is mainly about the supply of skills. It is precisely when there is a shortage of specialist nurses, specialist doctors and other professions that we get a reduced number of care places but also longer queues in general. That is why this problem needs to be tackled. I have referred in the past to the fact that, from this year onwards, we are investing a billion dollars in the field of skills provision. We conduct discussions with actors in the health sector. To this, of course, should be added, for example, the cancer initiative, which will greatly reduce waiting times in cancer care.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-548	Mr President, I would like to As I slurred at the end of my question, Sweden has lost its ranking in Europe when it comes to waiting times. If Sweden had focused on the care queues and waiting times in health care, we would have been in the international top class in this regard. It is completely unreasonable that a sick woman in Kalmar should wait nearly three times as long for her treatment as a lung cancer sufferer in Dalarna. Again, what do you systematically do to shorten the care queues?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-550	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, unacceptable that there are care queues at all and that there are these differences across the country. In my previous post, I tried to describe what we are doing concretely to increase accessibility in health care. Jenny Petersson argues that the previous government was working on the issue, and it was mainly with the so-called queue billion. But it was actually abandoned when the Alliance came into opposition. At that time it was not included in the first budget at all, but had a so-called availability and coordination billion instead.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-553	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Gustav Fridolin. I am concerned that many students today do not receive the support they need to develop and meet the knowledge objectives. There are over 14 000 pupils who do not meet the required requirements so that they can move on from primary school. It is a great failure for all of us who are somehow responsible for primary school. It is not the students who fail, but we are, because we have not managed to have the structures needed for the support they would receive. In Finland, support is much more effective. You put it in a lot sooner than we do. In Sweden, special support is most common in the higher grades, even in grade 9, while it is often included in the lower grades in Finland. There, the responsibility for special support is something that is everyone's, and that is why it is also much better.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-557	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Svantorp, for the question! It is precisely the case that in Swedish school today we give the most documented special support in the ninth grade. For many students, it is far too late. Small problems for the student risk growing into big problems for both the student and the school when you don't get the support you need on time. The best school systems in the world have an emphasis on early support, and we are investing in this now. We have made sure to strengthen preschool through guidelines for the size of children's groups and by spending money on small children's groups. We strengthen the early years through investments in more employees. 4,000 employees are hired with government money in the early years to have more time for the students. We are introducing a reading-write-count guarantee for the early years from next year's autumn semester, and we are investing in better access to special teachers and special educators both through better opportunities to further train themselves to it and through investments to the principals to enable them to hire special teachers and special educators.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-559	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your answer. The Swedish National Agency for Education issued a report the other day on the importance of immigration for school results. It shows that the average age of children coming to Sweden has become higher, which reduces students' time to enter the Swedish school and pass upper secondary school qualifications. Great efforts are needed to really give all children the opportunity to reach the goals we have set for the Swedish school. It will require resources, and I would therefore like to end by asking the Government how he views the challenges presented.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-561	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it requires investment in school, and this is connected. It is clear that when we meet many students with varying educational backgrounds, we should not also have to work with the reading and counting of an eighth grade student whom we have actually met since the age of six. Then we'll have it in place. What we do for new arrivals is about improving the survey so that you get a reasonable grade placement and have more time. We make great investments in better opportunities for school on holiday and homework and also to other opportunities alongside the schedule. Of course, those who are late need more time than others.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-564	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Public Health. Riding has well documented good effects on public health, which in itself is an increasing problem in society. Although equestrian sport is one of Sweden's largest sports, it is still rigidly treated by politics. The equestrian sport has more than half a million practitioners. Most of them are women, unlike others, more male-dominated sports. The horse itself also contributes to open landscapes and many important jobs. During a previous debate in this House, the Minister for Public Health has promised that horseback riding will be included in the staff benefit for the health allowance. My question to the Government is therefore: When should the equestrian sport be included in the health care allowance?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-567	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I agree with Åsa Coenraad's praise for the equestrian sport, which has many positive advantages. During the debate that Åsa Coenraads refers to, I did say that this needs to be included in the fitness allowance, but I also said that we need to do this in a wider context. The health care aid as it stands today is a patchwork of various measures, and we need to carry out a thorough analysis. There is, of course, a great deal of work that needs to be done for this, and I am sorry to say that I cannot give any precise time today. M a that is an urgent issue.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-569	Mr President, I would like to As the Government says, it is a patchwork of different sports, and this is complicated. It is all the more important that we get started with the investigation that the Government has previously promised to come. Does the Government intend to set up such an investigation during this term of office, as he has previously promised?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-571	Mr President, I would like to The arrangements for this are discussed within the Government Office. It is important to point out that such an investigation would not be primarily under my remit but under the Ministry of Finance, because it is a tax issue. But I think, like Åsa Coenraads, that this is a very important issue.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-574	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Gustav Fridolin. Teachers need more time to be teachers, not caretakers, administrators, or rest guards. And our students need more time with their teachers, in order to be able to achieve their goals more easily, not least in mathematics. The Moderates, together with the two teachers' unions, have now proposed an initiative to bring about, among other things, teachers' assistants. I know the minister and the government are looking at those questions. We agree on centrally corrected national tests, among other things. My question to Gustav Fridolin is: Do you have any concrete information to give when it comes to teaching assistants? Are you in favour of that?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-578	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we are. That is one of the reasons for the investment that we are making in order to employ more people in the early years. We have ensured that you can find what is needed locally for teachers to have more time there. It can be about teachers, if you find it and have opportunities for it. But in other places it may be about teachers' assistants. We're in favour of teaching assistants. That's a good suggestion. It is good that it is being worked on. I'm so glad I get this question. By the time we took over, almost 10 000 employees had been cut off from Swedish school during the last eight years. It is clear that more jobs will land on the teacher when there are major cuts in school. And then it will be difficult for the teacher to have time for his real job. I am very happy that we have now turned that trend, left it behind, and instead compete for who can invest the most in school. It should be a good school, which makes life better for our teachers and students.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-582	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the information, Gustav Fridolin! Of course, it is good that the government is also in favour of teaching assistants. I hope it will be delivered so that we will soon see teachers' assistants and other people who can relieve the teachers in our classrooms. Sanctions against Romania and Bulgaria to help Roma
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-585	Mr President, I would like to We'll have to work on the ministers today. My question goes not to Minister Wikström, as I thought, but to the Minister for Education. It is very difficult for vulnerable European citizens, particularly Roma, in Europe. The EU and Sweden are making significant efforts with large resources and in dialogue with the countries concerned. But the pressure needs to increase, mainly on Romania and Bulgaria. When countries do too little, when there are serious omissions and when it comes to structural discrimination against minority groups, there is a need for sanctions against the countries. Is the government prepared to work for such sanctions, as a final measure when and if dialogue is not enough?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-589	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I agree with the description of the problem. We must ensure that people have the opportunity to build a life in their countries. The anti-Gypsyism that we see in large parts of Europe, and which we are absolutely not free from in Sweden, has limited people in a terrible way and continues to do so to this day. Europe is one of the tools we have to work towards it. We would like to see the EU's tools strengthened in order to be able to work against it. This is something that the Swedish Government is working on in different ways. However, we are not content with that. We do not think it is enough just to call out for Europe. We are entering into bilateral agreements with both Romania and Bulgaria. On behalf of the government, Åsa Regnér has negotiated those very agreements so that we ourselves can sit down with the countries to see what we can do to improve the situation for people in their countries. These are people who are otherwise forced into a situation where they need to beg for their living.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-592	Mr President, I would like to I am interested in sanctions as a last possible measure, if dialogue with the countries is not enough. We agree that we will do everything we can to improve in the countries, through resources and by pushing. I also believe that there is a need for some changes to the EU framework for cooperation projects. The municipalities can support, the municipality to the municipality. Then there may be a need for changes in the regulations, which I hope the government works for.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-595	Mr President, I would like to Municipal cooperation is important. It has proved to be important in various contexts and will certainly be important in this regard too. Many of the agreements we draw up are about exchanging information and experience, for example on how to build up working preschools and schools. Then we must have municipalities that are active in it. As Staffan Danielsson knows, changing the EU's basic regulatory framework is not on the agenda at the moment. We are not facing a constitutional change. If we were to do so, the government would of course come back with our answers to concrete changes in the constitution. But it is clear that we should work both with the EU and bilaterally with the countries.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-599	Thank you for that! That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the Members who have participated in Question Time.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-600	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind the House that we are going to debate civil society. It's been a while since we met. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject any reservations. Mr President, I would like to I will touch on the part of the report dealing with sport and its associations. My party partner Azza will touch the other parts a little later. I am proud to be a social democrat today and part of the government. We have now finally increased the funding for the sports movement. We have done this in 2016, with an increase of 197 million. There will probably be more money a little later on too. Svenskt Friluftsliv has also received a doubling of the grant for its operations. The then Minister of Culture and Sport of the bourgeois government expressed it in some of his speeches as the great sport policy effort being the job tax deduction. Christian Democratic Members said that a huge development of the sports movement was that one could use something called leisure money. These were, in fact, the two issues raised at the level of sport policy under the previous government. Therefore, I am even more proud that this government so clearly points with all its hands and shows that the sports movement needs increased funding and that the sports movement is important for the development of the Swedish model. Today there are about 20 000 non-profit associations across the country, and the number of members is over 3.2 million. Of them, about 849,000 have some form of leadership in the association movement. We can really talk about peoples' movements here. I think it should be called the People's Movement rather than civil society. If the sports movement is given the opportunity to carry out its activities and additional funds, it will strengthen our country so that it stays together. It's a strength and an opportunity. We want to see our stars succeed at the big championships, regardless of sport. But somewhere begins the journey toward gold and fame. It is in contact with the sports movement, various associations or perhaps in gym class or when you go for the first time to see a game or watch the Olympics or the World Cup on TV, as I often do at this age. In my younger days I had the conditions and the opportunity to participate in many sports movements and to try different sports. Unfortunately, too many children and young people are not moving enough today. We can speculate on what this could be. I think the computer has a certain significance in this context. It is important to create the conditions for children and young people today to be able to participate in the sports movement and engage in some form of activity. That is why some of the money we spend is going to increase that very opportunity, also to combat the ill health that has increased in our society. As I said, it is interesting and good that the Swedish Sports Federation has adopted this. In their guidelines to the various special associations, they now point to the importance of recruitment to association life. But the association life is also extremely good at welcoming our new Swedish citizens. If the rest of Swedish society had been as successful in its integration work as the sports movement has been, society would have been different from today, and we would have had increased integration and participation. The money that is now being added is intended to work in that area. This government is serious about raising the profile of sports policy and making all the positive activities of the sports movement visible. The sports movement is unique and should be treated with great respect. Somewhere on the horizon there is a discussion about putting associations on an equal footing with companies. I want to make it clear here and now that I and my party will fight until the end to maintain the sports movement as a special feature of our society and protect and develop its importance, and then develop the Swedish model. But we have challenges ahead. That's not what we're talking about. More people need to move. This applies not only to children and young people but also to older and middle-aged people. We want a lifelong sport. We want greater diversity in sport. We want more leaders who can train in the study organisations that exist, such as Sisu. We want to fight the grandstand violence. It should be safe to see a football game, an ice hockey game or whatever it may be. This is where we need to make a move. We also want to work to strengthen gender equality within the sports movement. We want more girls playing sports. We know that girls with foreign background find it difficult to get into society. Here's a big mission ahead of us. There is no lack of information, my friends! Now we are taking hold and continuing the development that the Social Democratic-Environmental Party government has begun!
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-617	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that all of us – both we in this House and those in the gallery – have long experience from one or some of the country's associations. We have a fantastic association life in Sweden that engages an enormous number of people. We are involved as participants, and some of us may also be leaders. Some international comparisons have been made, including involvement in the sports movement. That's where Sweden stands out. Not in any other country in Europe is so much voluntary work being done in the sports movement. That is something we can truly be proud of. There has also been talk of the economic value of this voluntary work. Large amounts are highlighted, but nevertheless the total value is undervalued. When you count it in economic terms, you value voluntary work as if it were wage labour, but the value is much greater than that. Monetary context cannot really capture the value of the social community, improved public health or democratic education. That's all there is to it, isn't it? That we choose to engage in associations to grow our own interest – whether it's about playing football, playing chess or picking mushrooms – is perhaps not surprising. But what is really amazing is that so many associations choose to have a social commitment far beyond what is their core business. This is nothing new; we have seen it at all times, especially how many associations are committed to the positive development of the local community. But what we can welcome recently is that so many associations are actively involved in reception and integration. We see Scout associations helping in the concrete reception of refugees. We have seen how in the bandie in Borlänge have worked to get Somalis to get involved, even though they have hardly had any relationship to the bandie before. It is often said that work is the key to effective integration, but it is too narrowly thought. Of course, we need work to make a living, but the key to integration is to find a social context. Workplaces are of course a way, but also getting involved in an association can be a way. This is something that the Red Green Government has taken on board. Last autumn we saw how 200 million extra were directed to civil society to support integration efforts. Although the core of the business is the voluntary work, the costs are also there. These are building costs and material costs. At the same time, every crown invested in association gives a fantastic exchange in the form of voluntary work. It is therefore a wise investment that the Red-Green Government makes. We have not only seen increased efforts to strengthen the integration work in association life, but also that last year the sports movement received a substantial boost. This year a historic investment in outdoor life is being made. In the near future, there will be a doubling of funding for outdoor recreation organisations. Of course, all associations must be given equal conditions, regardless of the umbrella under which they have organised their activities. When you listen to the representatives of the bourgeois parties, there is no mistake that there is a great deal of commitment to civil society there too. Many of the reservations that have been put forward contain positive ideas in themselves that can possibly be further worked on. At the same time, the reservations are a little out of reality. The work actually being done has not been taken up. It ignores the fact that the government is now spending a lot of resources on civil society. It ignores the fact that the government gave additional directives to the investigation on how we can strengthen civil society, and it ignores the fact that that investigation was presented just a few weeks ago. Now the government is working fully to reformulate those proposals for an active policy. It is, of course, work that Parliament cannot anticipate. I would like to say to the Swedish Democrats that although we have clear rules on how to use aid – an association must have a democratic organisation in order to receive subsidies, and the activities must be characterised by democratic values – it is difficult to ensure at all times that funds are not misused and go to activities that we do not really want to provide state support. But the Swedish Democrats must also respond here. Let's say that an organization is agitating strongly against refugee homes, publishing information on its website about where refugee homes will be built, while representatives of the organisation are acting on Facebook pages about burning refugee homes, and then we see a wave of arson across the country. Is it reasonable, then, to give resources to such an organization? That is a question the Swedish Democrats must answer. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-629	Mr President, I would like to I reacted a little to what Niclas Malmberg said about 735 million. I was led to believe that he was trying to ignore the sum. This was part of many organisations. In total, they are an enormous asset to our social economy. It would have been a bit dressy if Niclas Malmberg had also remembered that the 20 million that the government now gives, some of which go to integration work, is part of the migration agreement that the government has with the alliance parties. In addition, I got the impression that Niclas Malmberg was a little surprised that we bourgeois also engage in association and voluntary work. He seemed to think it was something reserved for red and green parties. I can inform Niclas Malmberg that I myself have been very active for over 40 years. This with counting hours was quite common in the women's shelters. When these associations started in the 70s and 80s this was a way to make municipalities understand what valuable work women did. Then they counted hours and, I believe, nursing wages or medical assistance wages that existed at the time. It is a good way to have a volunteer hour and try to have some compensation for it.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-634	Mr President, I would like to In no way did I express any surprise, Eva Lohman, at the involvement of the alliance parties in civil society. My surprise was linked to how you have formulated yourself in some of the reservations, where you do not want to know the reality that is actually now. We provide increased resources to civil society. An investigation has now been presented, and the government is continuing to come up with sharp proposals. My surprise was only linked to the fact that you do not take on board the positive work that the government is doing. But we have a common commitment to civil society. I haven't questioned that. Nor do I devalue the SEK 735 million that have been reported in some kind of calculation – quite the opposite. I'm saying it's just part of the whole thing. It is the value of the volunteer hour compared to if it had been a wage-earned hour. But the value is far greater than that. We have many more positive effects. On the contrary, I would like to show that the value is much greater. Then it applies to the SEK 200 million that were directed to this last autumn. It was done jointly between our parties. There's no contradiction there either. On the other hand, the Red-Green Government has, in addition, made many other increases in funding for civil society, where the Moderates do not follow up with proposals at all. The sports movement receives SEK 133 million more in the government budget than the Moderates have in their proposal. In terms of contributions to national and international youth activities, we have SEK 25 million more than what the Moderates have in their proposal. We also have our special initiative Äga rum, where we have 50 million SEK, which is directly linked also to civil society. There the Moderates have no money at all.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-638	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I should like to remind Niclas Malmberg that the motions dealt with in this report are older than the study presented a few weeks ago. That investigation – we should not forget – is based on our 2009 bill, so this is an extension and an extra effort to make it even better, I would say. It is not surprising, then, if Niclas Malmberg thinks that the movements do not match the three-week-old study. While you say that you have spent more money, you have taken away a lot of opportunities. You have removed the possibility of deducting gifts, for example, that were growing up properly when there was a change of government. Many companies had seen that opportunity.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-640	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is not the movements I took up in this context. That the movements were formulated as they did is no wonder. These are the reservations in the report of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which I express astonishment about. For those reservations are formulated after the investigation has been presented. Then the alliance politicians in the committee should actually have based on the reality as it stands here and now rather than simply copying an old motion text. The right of deduction was not as amazingly successful as it might have been hoped when it was introduced. As far as I understand it, only the Christian Democrats are behind it now. I don't think the Moderates have that in their draft budget.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-644	Mr President, I would like to I received a question from Niclas Malmberg during his speech. We keep hearing about the problems of religions that invite preachers who do not stand for democratic values. Why is the Green Party turning a blind eye to the questions? Why do you as a party do nothing about this?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-647	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Green Party does not turn a blind eye to such issues. On the contrary, just as I mentioned in my opening statement, there are clear rules on the eligibility of an organisation. The organisation must be democratic in its essence, and its activities must be characterised by democratic values. If you fail to meet these requirements, you should not receive state subsidies. That is why I addressed a hypothetical question to the Swedish Democrats when I painted an example of how an organisation might act where I wondered if the Swedish Democrats believe that this type of organisation should be eligible. I didn't get an answer to that question, not even a hint of answer from Angelika Bengtsson.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-649	Mr President, I would like to We see recurring problems. A proposal is a review. But that may not be enough. Perhaps the review needs to be done more often. Perhaps we need to review the systems so that there is tougher punishment for those religions that do not follow the values. Maybe they shouldn't be entitled to tax money at all. The national coordinator against violent extremism Mona Sahlin herself has said that we politicians must recognise the problems. We Swedish democrats care about the young girls who cannot live a free life in Sweden today. We care, and you don't.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-652	Mr President, I would like to Angelika Bengtsson constantly confines himself to talking about religions, as if it is only within religions that the problems exist. We must act against violence regardless of the basis on which it is based, whether it is religious delusions that are behind the violence or whether it is political delusions that are behind the violence. It is interesting that Angelika Bengtsson mentions Mona Sahlin. I have collected some quotations from representatives of the Swedish Democrats who have spoken in different ways. A municipal politician from the Swedish Democrats wants the life of Mona Sahlin. Another Swedish Democrat wishes the lives of all Moderates. A third Swedish democratic councillor wishes to burn all Muslims. It is not just about people who support the Swedish Democrats. It is representatives of a political party who speak that way. It is a direct desire for people to be murdered or burned. When we discuss problems with violent extremism, we have to address the biggest problem, namely right-wing organisations that actually want the lives of people and want to burn Muslims. I do not believe that the Swedish Democrats should receive state subsidies.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-657	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support all of the reservations of the Alliance and the Moderates, but for time to come I particularly call for reservation 14. Today we are discussing the report of the Committee on Culture on civil society. I will concentrate specifically on sport and the open-air issues, as my colleague, Eva Lohman, has already spoken about the other parts of the report. It is both gratifying and urgent to highlight the importance of sport for the individual and not least for society as a whole. Sport issues have been given an increasing place in the debate on society, and it can be directly attributed to the fact that here we find one of the very best tools for better health, community, participation and democratic education. We have also all found amazing examples of how sport has contributed to the invaluable rapid entry of girls and boys, men and women into the community. Perhaps sport is our very best integration engine. The hymns and stories of our new arrivals are truly touching and pleasing. The Swedish sports movement, which stands for both breadth and elite, consists of 20 000 associations throughout the country. In 2014, the total number of members aged 6 to 80 was 3,185,000. The number of members of the management team in the same age range was 849,000. Sport is mostly self-financed, and the largest contribution is, according to the National Sports Association, the non-profit leaders. Here are the real everyday heroes! According to a study by Ersta Sköndal University College, they spend a total of 176 million hours on their leadership, which in terms of money is said to be worth nearly SEK 30 billion. Perhaps sport has not received the attention it deserves from an important societal perspective. In order for as many people as possible to be able to practise their sport in organised form or as spontaneous sport and in addition to clear efforts on the sports movement, the message of a so-called social infrastructure must be communicated at all stages. The availability of spontaneous sports places is important for public health in the long term. These facilities also provide opportunities to move around for children and young people who are not active in associations. Not least, they are important for young girls, who increasingly choose to end up with organized sports in their early teens. Not all children and young people have a tradition within or a natural connection to society, which is actually unique to Sweden. That is why we Moderates have recently presented a new proposal which we call Sports on Fritis. The Swedish School Sports Federation is given the role of coordinating their school sports associations in each county so that each fritiselev – of course on a voluntary basis – is given the opportunity to try out different sports. County consuls coordinate and coordinate the activities. The aim is for all children to have the opportunity to try out different sports. Those who so desire should also be offered the opportunity to undergo a leadership training that includes leadership, sports, diet, fair play and so on. I really wish this proposal would come true! Mr President, I would like to On 27 January 2015, the Committee on Culture decided to carry out a follow-up and evaluation of the objectives of state sports policy aimed at children and young people. The focus of the follow-up is to describe and analyse how stakeholders view government action on children's and young people's sports activities and what results can be seen. There is a special focus on gender equality, equality and the perspective on children's rights. I have been given the privilege of chairing the work, and I very much look forward to the outcome that we come up with together. Mr President, I would like to Public health issues have become increasingly focused. Overweight and obesity are becoming more common among the population. Here, sport and the open-air sector can contribute to prevention. Swedish Outdoor Life has 1.8 million members, of which 300 000 are children and young people. The organization's chairman Per Klingbjer recently wrote in a column that the lack of physical activity costs society as much as SEK 6 billion per year. At the same time, he refers to the fact that a 20-minute walk a day is enough to reduce health risks by as much as 30%. This simplicity is important for us to communicate in an easy and educational way. Friluftsengagement does not have to be costly if we have close access to forest and green areas. Urban planning is an important issue to consider here, and not least we politicians have an important role to play in our decisions. Sport and outdoor life are extremely important elements for a healthier Sweden. I am therefore pleased that these issues are increasingly being highlighted in the social discussions. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those people who contribute in their work to giving more people the opportunity to practise sports and outdoor life. These are invaluable efforts for the individual and not least society at large. Thank you!
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-670	Mr President, I would like to In the Nordic Council's action plan for the future of outdoor life, outdoor organisations in the Nordic countries have started the cooperation Friluftsliv in the Nordic countries to secure and improve the conditions and opportunities for outdoor life today and in the future. The project is a collaboration between outdoor organisations in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland and will last 2015– 2017. The results will be presented in 2017 in the form of recommendations and priorities to ensure joint Nordic outdoor activities. Children and young people will be a priority. To quote Siri Meland, who is an open-air consultant in Norwegian Outdoor Life, being in the nature and joy of outdoor life are strong values in all Nordic countries and something that binds us together in a natural way. This project aims to promote outdoor life as part of our common cultural heritage. ..................................................... The Nordic open-air network consists of outdoor organisations in the Nordic countries. The network's function and purpose is to support the conditions of outdoor life in the Nordic region and, through cooperation with similar organisations and authorities in the Nordic region, achieve results that promote the population's opportunities for outdoor activities and experiences with and in nature and the environment. The network wants to strengthen and exchange the importance of outdoor activities and nature experiences in the Nordic region. Mr President, I would like to Environmental awareness is about children's and young people's positive experiences of nature. What you learn and experience as a child is often cared for as an adult. Outdoor life creates hundreds of thousands of jobs in the Nordic countries. The non-profit outdoor organisations are also an important part of the Nordic democratic model. In countries with many non-profit organisations and NGOs, trust is growing, and democracy and economic growth are more well-functioning. The Nordic Outdoor Year 2015 was a good idea to emphasize and stimulate this, and the idea had very good intentions and visions. Unfortunately, the initiative did not get the impact and the response that had been needed, much because of too short planning time, too small resources and a unclear mandate. We therefore believe in a new joint venture on the broader front through collaboration with the Nordic open-air network and with the support of greater resources and better marketing. In Norway, the House decided on a year of outdoor life in 2015, which shows the importance of this being raised in the national parliaments even if we are working on the issue in the Nordic Council. I support motion 2548 on outdoor life for public health and the Swedish Democrats' reservation on a Nordic outdoor life year, but for time-winning we will not ask for approval of the reservation in this House.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-679	Mr President, I would like to I will be quite brief, because on this particular issue I am very pleased that there is a fairly broad consensus between the various parties when it comes to the issue of civil society. I think that this is an important signal that we are sending to the sector, that there are many decision-makers who think that the effort made by civil society is important. I would therefore like to begin by paying tribute to civil society organisations for their incredible efforts over the past year, when people on the run have made their way to our country. It has been people's voluntary efforts during all hours of the day and throughout our elongated country that made the reception of refugees manageable and dignified. But the great responsibility has also pushed the resources of the organisations to the utmost when it comes to raising capital, but also the non-profit forces that support the activities. It was therefore of great importance that the government, in agreement with the Moderates, Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, decided to allocate SEK 200 million to civil society in order to facilitate their work with the reception of refugees and the establishment of new arrivals. The faith communities and interreligious dialogue have also played a crucial role in the last year when the polarisation of society has increased. The religions are important in the work to highlight people's equal value and rights and to counteract the emergence of extremism. The religions have also been affected in various ways by the divisions in society. It was therefore important for the government to make a special effort on the security of the religions, as the religions themselves have asked for. Mr President, I would like to Is it something that has been clearly demonstrated over the past year is that it is when civil society and the public interact that the best results are achieved. This is a development that we must take care of and protect. But the role and importance of civil society for society is much more than helping the public if necessary. In democratic society, civil society has several roles, including as independent voters, as opinion leaders and as a democracy school. Swedish civil society is in many ways unique in the world, as many speakers before me have also pointed out. Around 53% of the country's population are making a voluntary effort, and we see an increase in commitment. It is a huge resource for our society that so many people choose to engage in voluntary activities. It is when people meet together that a force for change arises, and it is of great importance for the construction of society. We decision-makers have a great responsibility to work towards a continued strong civil society while at the same time safeguarding its independence. A recurring issue when we discuss civil society is how the economic conditions for the sector can be improved. The government has taken a number of steps in this direction and in last year's budget reinforced the long-term unbound contributions. In addition to the aforementioned 200 million, funding has been increased for many organisations in the budget, including the LGBT movement, the disability movement and women's shelters. Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, Dan Eriksson presented the civil society investigation Palett for a strengthened civil society, and it is an important reading for everyone who is passionate about civil society issues. It presents the challenges facing civil society but also suggests how these challenges can be met from the policy side. Now the investigation will be prepared and referred and then translated into political proposals, to which we will have the privilege of returning. But the investigation gives us decision-makers a good opportunity to take important steps forward to develop and strengthen civil society. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media to be approved in the KrU6 report and therefore rejecting all reservations.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-689	Mr President, I would like to We can see in various studies that, unfortunately, VAT is high on companies' list of ranked administrative problems and burdens. Simplifying the daily lives of entrepreneurs, more companies can start up and more jobs can be created, which ultimately also strengthens welfare. A great deal of simplification is possible in the area of VAT. The Alliance's quarterly VAT report reform, instead of monthly reporting, reduced company costs by over SEK 300 million. For the Center Party, it is important that we can extend the simplification of VAT to more areas. It is therefore important that we have an investigation in place aimed at maintaining and extending the possibilities for more individual entrepreneurs to report their VAT annually. Today's system must be extended to smaller companies with cross-border trade. Mr President, I would like to VAT taxation, as well as other tax legislation, must keep up with time. In recent years it has become increasingly clear that both legislators and responsible authorities need to be speeded up in managing the rapid development of society. The Swedish Tax Agency's recently published survey and analysis of the impact of the collaborative economy on the tax system is a good example of how important it is that we are fast-footed in legislation and regulatory change. I do not believe that there are any differences of party political opinion here. The regulatory framework should keep up with developments. Future VAT rules will have to deal with cross-border transactions via mobile and internet. It must be done in a simple and effective way. With a simpler system, we promote growth and the jobs of the future. Today, when day-to-day purchases are being made in full use of mobile phones and computer screens, it is becoming increasingly clear that the formal VAT system has fallen short of technological and economic developments. Increased use of new technologies and global services pushes forward the need to simplify for both consumers and traders. We need to join the digital society. Legislation and its application must be followed in reality. Mr President, I would like to It's cool to pay taxes," said Mona Sahlin a number of years ago. I do not appreciate what she said but would like to add that it should also be easy to pay taxes. It is therefore important that we not only see what we can simplify and improve in the current regulatory framework. We also need to think new. We need to see what happens in the entrepreneur's everyday life and, where necessary, create new systems from scratch – systems that enable us to maintain tax collection while simplifying. My image of the Swedish tax will is that it is high. The voters have given us confidence as legislators, and then it is our duty to ensure that it is easy to pay taxes. The Center Party has proposed a new form of enterprise, a starting company. It is a system in which the entrepreneur automatically reports and pays his tax to the Tax Agency via an app on the mobile phone, simply by paying 25 per cent of his turnover up to a maximum of SEK 250 000 directly in a business transaction. We need more jobs and companies in Sweden. The unemployment rate among immigrants is over 15 per cent. More people need to get to work and get a wage to live on. Each entry company means that a person receives his own income and does not have to live on benefits. Our proposal for a start-up company means that it will be easy to start a business. And, Mr President, it cannot be made any easier. Finally, I would like to endorse the terpartist reservation No 4.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-699	Mr President, I would like to The report deals with VAT movements that have been received during the general period of exercise. The report is divided into four parts. I will comment on the subject of tax rates, where we have a reservation. I hereby request the approval of reservation 1. The rest of the questions will certainly be commented by my fellow Members from other parties. Yes, taxes– what is tax really? According to the lexicon, tax is a statutory obligation to pay an amount to the State or other body of society, which is imposed on a natural person or legal person on the basis of his or her activities, without being related to the counter-performance of the payee. The main aim is usually to finance the public sector. The tax may also have other purposes, such as levelling income or influencing persons' actions by means of financial incentives. Taxes can be used to stimulate the national economy or to discourage harmful behaviour. For example, a temporary reduction in VAT can be used to stimulate consumption. Adjustments to the tax rules for investments can be used to increase or reduce the willingness of companies to invest, which in the long run will have an impact on production. More examples are available. Taxes have existed at least since early historical times. An early tax was a share of the annual harvest, and in ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia there was tax in the form of daily labors to the state. Athens and Rome introduced taxes on trade, such as customs duties and taxes on sales. In the Middle Ages, indirect taxes on trade were the dominant form of taxation. Taxes based on one sum per household, on land ownership or other grounds were also incurred. Before the money was saved, the tax was paid mainly in goods or with work. In this connection, we can also mention the religious tax tithe, a kind of tax to the church that financed, among other things, the care of the poor. According to most political philosophies, taxes are justified in order to finance activities deemed necessary for society. Progressive tax can be used to reduce inequalities in society. According to this view, taxation in modern nations is an advantage for the development of society and thus for the majority of the population. A common way to present this is to paraphrase Oliver Wendell Holmes : Tax is the price of civilization. Mr President, I would like to Some political philosophers are against tax because it is compulsory and imposed by a legal system. They see taxation as theft because it is a violation of property rights. Political voluntarists, anarcho-capitalists and most other types of libertarians generally view taxation as an aggression of the state. That democracy legitimises taxation is dismissed by those who believe that all forms of state power, including democratically adopted laws, are fundamentally oppressive. Economist Ludwig von Mises felt that society as a whole should not make such decisions because of methodological individualism. Liberals who are opposed to taxation believe that the services currently provided by the state can be replaced by private alternatives, such as private defence agencies, mediation agencies or voluntary donations. Mr President, I would like to Between these extremes there is the Swedish tax legislation on the different rates and areas of application of VAT. It says that VAT is to be paid to the State and the tax rate is to be stated as a percentage of the levy. The main rule is 25%, and in addition there are two reduced rates of 12 and 6%. The issue of VAT rates has long been the subject of discussion. Bordering between areas treated differently, depending on the starting point, can give rise to difficult differences. This can be seen from the current exercise that we are discussing. The majority of treated sports propose reduced or abolished VAT for new categories of goods and services. The discussion is ongoing. Mr President, I would like to There is good reason to strive for a system of few exemptions and as few areas with reduced rates as possible. Generally speaking, a lower but uniform VAT would be ideal if the level of the tax could now be agreed. However, the requests for simple and easy-to-use tax rules cannot be seen in isolation. They must always be weighed against other social needs. Types of impact are increased or decreased consumption, employment and public health effects. However, these exemptions should be regularly evaluated in order to avoid distortions of competition and administrative burdens and to ascertain whether the expected effect has been achieved. We cannot ignore the fact that the laws are governed by the EU's VAT e directive. Article 97 states that the standard rates may not be less than 15% and Member States may apply one or two reduced rates. The Commission's 2016 Work Programme envisages an action plan for a simple, efficient and fraud-proof final VAT system adapted to the single market. The objective is to abolish the reduced rates which hamper the proper functioning of the internal market. The Commission feels that reduced VAT rates have a distorting effect on the changing economic, commercial and legal environment. The Commission plans for new initiatives in the field of VAT and a communication on these plans is expected to come in 2016 in the spring makes a change in national legislation superfluous at this stage. What we can hope for is that the Commission's new proposal takes into account all aspects of our society and that citizens feel that it is fair and appropriate. This is an important aspect in order not to undermine the willingness to pay.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-718	Mr President, I would like to VAT affects us all, every day. Every time we as individuals buy something, we encounter VAT. It is the companies that are an unpaid tax collector for the State and will handle the tax for each transaction. Value added tax is a national concern with its cash flow to the state and as a control instrument in society. VAT accounts for about 20-25 per cent of total tax revenue and is thus an extremely important part for both the state and the individual. In figures, it is about SEK 460 billion to the Treasury or SEK 49,000 per person per year. Taxes are intended to finance welfare and public expenditure and to steer economic development in a social and ecological direction. VAT should be designed and used for similar purposes and not just as a cash cow for the current government in order to make new reforms. One example of when governance through taxes can be of great importance is the service sector, which has the potential to create many new jobs while at the same time the opportunity to get black jobs to become white jobs is huge. We have examples of this, including with regard to the RUT deduction. It shows that the service sector has great potential for the future, and we want to stimulate it more. We Christian Democrats see the value of giving more people the opportunity to repair their bicycles, shoes or clothes from a sustainability perspective. We want to reduce VAT from 25% to 6% on these goods and services to promote this, while having the conviction that we are creating more jobs, which is much needed in Sweden today. At the same time, VAT rates should be understandable. Let me take an example. Today, VAT is 6% if you are at an event where music is played and the audience sits down. Should you, on the other hand, be at an event where the audience dances to the music, VAT is all of a sudden 25 percent. It doesn't make any sense, and it's hard for everyone to do the right thing. There are other examples that show that we need to review the rules so that they are understandable to people. The Christian Democrats believe that the current system of different VAT rates is cumbersome, bureaucratic and disadvantage the most labour-intensive parts of, for example, the tourism industry. An important part of stimulating growth in tourism and the meeting industry is to simplify VAT and make the boundaries understandable. If, from the point of view of VAT, the activities could also be divided into the four categories of food, accommodation, activities and transport, which are the basis of tourism, VAT would be more understandable and easy to manage. Another area that becomes extremely complicated for the individual entrepreneur is e-commerce, where in the most difficult of worlds you should handle VAT rules from the country where you buy the goods, Sweden's VAT rules and the rules from the country where you sell the goods. Hopefully, all three of these are within the EU. Otherwise, it is a thicket for the individual entrepreneur, who does not have it easy to do the right thing. We are talking in other areas about simplifying and clarifying. We should do so in this area too. We have spoken in this House in the past about the power and necessity of non-profit organisations in society. Civil society is a cornerstone of our social construction that we cannot be without. These organisations shall be encouraged and encouraged in all possible ways. Not least the events of the last year demonstrate the necessity of non-profit forces. Last autumn the discussion was high on the activities of non-profit associations in second-hand stores. These shops are necessary to get money for the business, and we, as a state, should be able to support this by exempting VAT. This was also decided in the Committee on Finance in the autumn, and we Christian Democrats are pleased about that. What concerns us is that the government has not made a clear statement on this issue which means that non-profit associations can be calm and that the government does not intend to impose VAT on them. Our proposal is that the Riksdag announces that they will continue to be exempt from VAT. It is exciting that when people do what we think, the state has the ability to make life difficult for them. I am thinking of those individuals who invest in renewable energy, such as wind power or solar cells, and who produce so much electricity that they have the opportunity to sell this surplus to electricity trading companies. I am convinced that we all think it is a good development when individuals want to be involved in creating a better world for all of us. But then we won't punish them. The VAT Directive and the Swedish VAT rules mean that a micro-producer of electricity – which has an agreement that either all electricity or only excess electricity will be delivered online for remuneration – will be regarded as carrying out an independent economic activity. That business for the private individual does not have to be large at all or be about many thousands. Yet our rules set obstacles for people and create unnecessary bureaucracy. There can hardly be a large loss of revenue for the state if these had been excluded. Now that the government seems to be doing everything possible to phase out nuclear power prematurely, more individuals who want to make such an investment would probably be needed. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the government should review the possibilities and effects of abolishing the VAT requirement for those who carry out micro-production of renewable electricity and sell their electricity surplus. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats support all our reservations, but for the sake of efficiency, I am only in favour of reservation 5.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-732	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in report SKU19. That means I want to reject any reservations that are there. Basically, we are relatively united between the parties in this report, and that is a great thing. We should seek more of collaboration and less of struggle around taxes, as well as in other long-term issues that are important for Sweden as a nation. The Swedish tax system is the foundation of Swedish welfare. Through the tax, the state can provide everyone with equal opportunities for education and a good life. A large part of Sweden's welfare system is paid for by taxes. It is taxes that pay for health care, childcare, care for the elderly, roads, public transport and so on. Value added tax – or VAT, as we often say – accounts for about 385 billion of our total tax revenue. That is about one fifth of the common sector's tax revenue. VAT revenue is twice as high as the income from capital – not many people know about it. We need the VAT. It was created to further develop the common welfare state. We are in broad agreement on this in Parliament. Taxes and the welfare state have become so obvious that many companies and now entire industries want to work in the tax-funded sector. For example, tax-funded school money, childcare money and so on are so attractive that more and more companies are being squeezed into these markets. As is well known, VAT is very much governed by the EU's Sixth VAT Directive, as other speakers have to some extent addressed. The VAT Directive was designed before Sweden's membership, which has caused us to have some concerns. One example of this is VAT on the non-profit sector. We have a tradition of VAT exemption when it comes to the non-profit sector in the Nordic countries. The VAT treatment of the second-hand activities of the non-profit sector that came into play after the Swedish Tax Agency had changed its assessment was of course very unfortunate. The Swedish Tax Agency did this because, in 2008, the EU Commission launched a so-called treaty infringement case against Sweden with regard to VAT legislation. There was therefore already uncertainty on this issue in 2008. However, the situation worsened when the Supreme Administrative Court made a decision that the business should be subject to VAT, when the Tax Agency felt obliged to act. On the part of the committee and the government – and indeed across all party boundaries – it was felt that it was quite important that the economic conditions of the non-profit sector should not be adversely affected, that there should be no retroactiveity of future solutions to the problems that arose. The solution came, Larry, and since January 1, 2016, the problem for these compounds is solved. The legislative proposal clarifies that income from second-hand sales, which are used as a source of funding for non-profit activities and which promote reuse and recycling, should in future be both income- and VAT-free. The proposal was developed in consultation with the non-profit organisations involved in second-hand activities. It may not be the ideal thing, but it was as far as it could be, given the way the European Commission and the European Court of Justice view it. It should also be borne in mind that the issue was pushed forward before 2008 by the fact that there were economic interests in Sweden that perceived the VAT exemption in second-hand operations as an unsound competitive means and a hidden state aid. The Social Democrats are of the opinion that the tax system should be neutral and uniform. Different VAT rates actually go against this. We in Sweden have ended up in a system where we have three VAT rates. More simply, we have a normal VAT rate of 25 % and two lower VAT rates of 6 % and 12 % respectively. It is quite clear that this has led to different demarcation and demarcation discussions. Similarly, it is a constant pursuit of trying to get one of the lower VAT rates for one's own activities. It is very gratifying that the Committee on Taxation, including most bourgeois Members, has rejected all the individual motions which require a reduction in VAT on various matters. Reduced VAT can often cause concern because it is often unfunded. A move towards uniform VAT, as in Denmark, would probably be good in many ways. But there is still a long way to go, and I do not believe that this will be achieved otherwise than on the basis of a larger tax investigation, which must also take account of and be linked to the tax revenues that are needed in view of the demographic challenges facing Sweden. It is said that the EU VAT directive is to be reviewed starting in the near future. As it seems, it is now in the spring or by far the latest in early autumn. We are very happy if this EU review gives us new openings, so that we can sit down and clear the ambiguities and inconsistencies that usually come up in various individual motions. The VAT system must be in line with technological developments and not least digital developments and the digital economy. We are entering a cross-border internet economy, and we should acknowledge that. The Swedish Minister for Finance, regardless of the block membership and party colour, should bring this into the discussions on a new VAT directive to come. Mr President, I would like to VAT revenues are central to the financing of welfare and other joint investments. The question of sustainability is also a matter of VAT, which is a tax on our consumption. Discussions on VAT are a possible starting point for the development of a broader tax agreement. In it there are less ideological locks and a clear challenge in technological development that all parties must respond to.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-748	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to hear Adnan Dibrani talk about secondhand stores the way he does. Should I interpret the message that the Government Party is making so that it has no intention of raising the issue again without the second-hand shops being able to be exempt from VAT in the future, at least as far as we can see? I think that is an important message to give to them, that they can be calm and secure in it. I can also note that Mr Dibrani does not share the view that the services sector is a way forward in finding new jobs. You can see that the RUT deduction has done its part to find new job opportunities. If you reduce VAT on some of the services, I think you can support and stimulate in a more concrete way. At the same time you can look at the sustainability perspective, that we actually repair our bikes, shoes and clothes to a greater extent. I would like to hear whether the Social Democrats are in no way willing to stimulate this even more, given the situation we have in Sweden. We need all the jobs we can get. I would like to ask Mrs Dibrani a question about the collaborative economy. We know that the collaborative economy is coming more and more. You can use it in many ways. For example, you can share a car and share the costs when going from one place to another. But there are also companies that make use of this because they do not pay VAT, VAT. They may also not pay employers' contributions and the like. I wonder whether Mrs Dibrani thinks something needs to be done about this, or whether this is a situation that is satisfactory for Sweden. I think we will lose some of our tax base if we do nothing about it in the future.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-753	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder and the Christian Democrats can be completely calm. At present, we do not really see any problem with VAT in the non-profit sector. As I said, it was not a new problem. The problem arose as early as 2008 when KD was in government. It fought with this question, and it was fortunate that the Supreme Administrative Court did not examine it until later. We should be glad that all parties agreed. But I can be cocky and say that what Anders Borg did not solve, it solved Magdalena Andersson in less than a year once we sat in a government position and got this on the table. But, as I said, we were lucky that Sweden was united on this issue. We solved it together with the non-profit sector, and we have not seen any other problems. This shall apply from 1 January 2016.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-754	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mr Dibrani did not raise my second question about the collaborative economy at all. Should I interpret it as saying that the Government Party has no position on the collaborative economy and where is the limit when it comes to using the collaborative economy to withhold taxes and perhaps not to pay VAT as it should? We know that much of our confidence in the tax system is that everyone is doing the right thing and that everyone is trying to do the right thing. In this case, there may be some who try to escape some taxes quite deliberately. I think the government should take that on board. I believe that the Swedish tax base needs to be protected and that there is a need to review the issue of the sharing economy and where the borders are. I find it sad if the Government Party does not have these ideas at all.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-757	Mr President, I would like to I realized I missed answering some of Larry Söder's first line. It is symptomatic that from the bourgeoisie – in this situation it is only KD – there is an idea that if you just lower taxes, whether it is a VAT rate or another tax, jobs will be created. They never talk about raising taxes. In addition, they want to reduce some of these VAT rates without actually proposing how we are going to finance this. Of course, there are both the pros and cons of everything, and one should have a balance. But at present, both I and Larry are seeing problems with the limits that exist with regard to VAT. Our companies and our households are facing problems when there are ambiguities because we control some of them ourselves and the EU controls some of them. During the spring and at the latest in the autumn, we hope that the EU will start its investigation work. Then it will be time for us to sit together and talk about sharing economy, borders and so on. I am delighted that the KD, the Center Party and all the other parties seem to be happy that there will be such a situation where together we will have to sit down and find out how to make it more sustainable for our companies and households when it comes to VAT rules that are very complicated. But, once again, we do not always control this ourselves. It's made things a little harder. Much was already clear when we joined the European Union. But if we get a situation in the autumn, I welcome whether we can sit down together and try to figure out how to deal with this and make it as easy as possible.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-762	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore debating the Tax Committee's report 19 on VAT. Value added tax, or VAT as it is called, accounts for 40% of government revenue. It is an essential part of the space that we then have to invest in health care, school and long-term care and other publicly funded activities. I will start by saying something about VAT on second hand. It was an issue that took a lot of energy and time on the part of the Tax Committee during the previous Parliamentary Session. Because of a court ruling, we had a situation where the second-hand sector became subject to VAT. However, because of a very rapid response from both the committee and from the government, we were able to deal with this situation in a good way. We have had political agreement on the positive things. The Secondhand sector is part of a circular economy that re-uses, which has many positive effects for people who train and have previously been far from the labour market. But it is also part of the social activity in the country but also part of the development work around the world. That is why it was very good that we could find a positive solution. The Christian Democrats can be absolutely sure that the current government and the Green Party and the Social Democrats are protecting this sector. If we had not done so, we would not have pushed this forward quickly in this way. There is a built-in contradiction between having simplicity in the system and being able to control. There are often discussions about reductions in the tax system at all and also in the area of VAT. I believe that this contradiction will persist, no matter what tax system we have. Even if there were to be a new tax reform that would initially be agreed upon, there will be quite rapid pressure to change it in one sector or another. But it is also good to be able to manage through financial incentives. Simplicity is not the only thing that matters. It is also important to be able to control from time to time. When it comes to reviewing the VAT system, as some have proposed during the general period of exercise, we note that the government has said in the budget bill that the VAT law will be revised. That is something that will happen shortly. Mr President, I would like to The government has today announced its intention to reduce VAT for easier repairs to appliances and other household appliances. I think that's good. It is a change from the previous policy which favoured the consumption of new goods, although this was not always necessary. I am talking about the ROT deduction, which in the past was very generous. It's still there, but it's a little less generous. You can control this. Increasing the reuse of things is something that is well in line with the government's environmental ambition. Finally, I will briefly say something about an urgent area. This applies to micro-generation of renewable electricity. I am very pleased that we have an increasing consensus that it is very important to safeguard renewable electricity production and also other renewable energy sources. Progress in this area is very rapid, and more will have to be done in the future. There may be reasons to look at different ways of doing so with different forms of financial incentives. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-771	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Rasmus Ling for verifying what the Social Democrats said, that is to say that second-hand shops can be calm and secure in the current situation. However, I would like to focus on something that I think both myself and Rasmus Ling are protecting, namely renewable energy. There are, for example, wind power or solar cells, where at present – as I see it – one is a threat to how we handle nuclear power, that is, perhaps we are phasing it out prematurely. Then my question is what we get instead. I would rather have renewable energy than get coal power from another country, and then we must have the help of, for example, private individuals to actually produce this electricity. I am therefore very surprised if the Green Party says that the Christian Democrats' proposal to make it easier for individuals to produce and sell it without making complicated VAT declarations and the like is not so viable. It is about making it easier for the individual to help and do the right thing. This can be done in many different ways, but not by constantly filling out new forms. So I wonder if Rasmus Ling would not be willing to support this exercise and reservation, in order to make it easier for Sweden to actually move towards renewable energy to a greater extent.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-774	Mr President, I would like to It is very gratifying to hear about the Christian Democrats' renewed enthusiasm for renewable energy. I welcome it and think it is very good. I would never stand here and exclude any way of promoting increased production of renewable electricity or other energy sources. The abolition of VAT obligations may be one way, and there may be other ways that could lead to further development. We have had a very positive development, but it must take even greater place in the future in order for us to phase out nuclear power without it affecting households or companies. The government has made it clear that we are going towards fossil independence, and there is also a Commission that is working on these issues. Our focus will be clear – it's towards 100% renewable we're going to go.
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-777	Mr President, I would like to I am very surprised if the Green Party has changed since the election campaign. There was Aftonbladet's policy at that time, that is to say that there were big headlines and clear messages to the voters. Now, however, there is no clear answer anymore. Rasmus Ling says that it is a great proposal The Christian Democrats have but that they intend to vote no. I can't understand that attitude. Either you think one proposal is good, and then you support it, or you do not think it is good and if so, have another proposal you want to implement. You cannot say that you want individuals to be involved in taking responsibility and making sure that we invest in renewable energy – and then make it as difficult as possible. I cannot quite understand how you think when you say that you can imagine the proposal the Christian Democrats have but that you intend to vote no, Rasmus Ling. Have you changed sides in any way, or how do you think?
i-3a2d6a0d2a4979b7-780	Mr President, I would like to I think Larry Söder has misunderstood a lot of things if he says that the Green Party has changed its energy policy. We were clear before the elections, and we have been as clear after that: we are going towards a society that is 100% fossil-free in the energy sector. I would like to cross over the question. The Christian Democrats are known to have previously opposed virtually all the initiatives that have been made to make us more efficient and get as much renewable fuels and electricity as possible. We are working for this, and as I said in my first line, this may be a way– but there may also be several ways. It would be irresponsible at this point to make such an announcement. We need to look at the whole picture and how we can steer towards it being 100% renewable in the energy sector. So I can cross the question. Is this something the Christian Democrats support? In the various policy areas, will you give priority to moving in this direction – whether it is the electricity side, the transport side or the housing sector? ( ANDRE VICE TALMANN: The question may be considered rhetorical because Larry Söder is not entitled to any more lines. )
