i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-6	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me what measures I will take in relation to the Swedish Public Employment Service's surplus of appropriations. Of course, it is not satisfactory that funds allocated to support job seekers have not been used. However, part of the budget savings of the Employment Service for 2015 is due to an improvement in the labour market situation. Unemployment is falling faster than we expected. This means fewer people who need labour market policies, such as fewer participants than expected in the Job and Development Guarantee and the Youth Job Guarantee. Other aspects of spending savings are due to the time taken to build up long-term labour market reforms based on the interaction of several parts of society. It takes longer than the government initially thought to produce extra services, trainee jobs and education contracts, but a solid foundation is now to be found through local agreements between Arbetsförmedlingen and 286 of Sweden's municipalities. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen can plan so that resources can be used. The agency needs to be better at controlling its operations and has an internal development work where it is included. In May 2015, the Government commissioned Statskontoret to follow this work and, if necessary, propose measures. Statskontoret's report will be published at the end of February. The government has already reduced the detailed management of the Public Employment Service that the previous government increased and made the agency's operations more difficult. We have, among other things, removed restrictions that made it more difficult for employers to adapt efforts to each individual's circumstances. We have also made it easier for the Agency to re-prioritise the use of resources based on needs. Labour market policies should be adapted to the needs of the labour market and the resources allocated should be used in a resource-efficient way.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-11	Mr President, I would like to My question is prompted by the harsh criticism that Ylva Johansson joined in the media in 2012 and 2013 as vice-chairman of the Labour Market Committee when the Employment Service then returned its surplus to the state. This year the same is happening, although the amount is now even higher. I note that today the Minister for Labour answers almost the same as the Minister for Labour in the Alliance Government at the time. Ylva Johansson said that it was a great scandal not to use the money and failed the answer she then received. The truth is, Ylva Johansson, that it probably doesn't matter what government Sweden has had. It has been sent back to the state for many years, and also during Göran Persson's time. Nevertheless, this was daunted. It was not pretended, but it was portrayed as a failure of the alliance government. Therefore, I want to know what Ylva Johanson now intends to do when she has the power to decide this for herself. Unfortunately, I cannot read anywhere in the Minister's reply that any action will be taken. There is a risk that this year too, a surplus will be generated when the government's policy will not succeed and not so many will come in the measures that were planned. Today, only a small waste is found in, for example, trainee jobs and extra services. It is far from being a goal. This is the case if you are not prepared when the government takes office, and everything has been delayed. Yet the government is beating its chest because unemployment is now falling. The truth is that we are currently having a strong business cycle. Despite this fact, employment rose by only 0.4 percentage points in 2015. Unemployment did not even fall by an entire percentage, and unemployment is still high. The fall in youth unemployment is largely due to a decrease in the number of youth groups. In 2015, there were 19,000 fewer aged 15 to 24 than in 2014. Then there will automatically be fewer unemployed. I think the Minister is doing a little bit of a statistical beauty painting. Youth unemployment is still very high. Depending on the model you look at, it varies between 15 and 19 percent. The really serious thing about this is the growing proportion of young people who are passing on to long-term unemployment that we are now seeing. They're getting further and further away from a job. For foreign born it also looks very gloomy. There, unemployment will increase sharply, especially for those coming from outside the EU. Here it will be a big challenge in the coming years. It would, of course, be unfortunate if the Employment Service were to send back money to which it is entitled and could use it. As the division increases and the gap grows between native and foreign born, all forces and means must be used. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we know that many of the labour market measures that are being implemented are effective. The Swedish National Audit Office produced a recent report showing really bad results for the Swedish Public Employment Service. I allow myself to doubt whether the government intends to use the money in the most appropriate way. We have heard and seen a very pleased minister. Most of it is good, says Ylva Johansson. But it is a huge challenge that awaits. It is almost half of the unemployed who were born abroad. You can't ignore that. The housing issue is also such a major problem that has become a major obstacle. Nor have we heard anything from the government. I am very interested to hear: what action does the Minister intend to take in response to the challenge and the money that exists?
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-23	Mr President, I would like to You may not really know where to start when you hear Katarina Brännström svada. Let me first say: what is the reason for and what is the difference with the fact that the Employment Service is paying back money today against when it did so under the old government? The big difference is that unemployment is now falling. The government's objective is not that as many people as possible should be in labour market policy measures. The government's goal is that people should be in work and not be unemployed. We are now seeing a fall in unemployment and an increase in the employment rate. I have to correct Katarina Brännström when it comes to the young people. True, the youth group is decreasing. However, youth employment rates are increasing. So it is an increasing proportion of young people who are in work. Long-term unemployment among young people, measured by the AKU of Statistics Finland, decreased. Compared to the last quarter of 2014, there were 18,000 long-term unemployed young people. The last quarter of 2015 was 11,000 long-term unemployed young people. This is a clear reduction in long-term unemployment among young people. More needs to be done. I am not satisfied, but the development is definitely moving in the right direction. Of course, I share the view that inefficient labour market measures should not be involved. That is why we have changed the policy and are phasing out measures that are not effective. As far as youth unemployment is concerned, it was not long ago that Katarina Brännström stood here and said that if the employers' contribution for young people is restored, youth unemployment will increase. Developments have become the opposite. Youth unemployment is falling. Katarina Brännström says: We have heard nothing from the government regarding housing policy. Then you have to be rarely tone-deaf. The budget bill endorsed by the Riksdag makes the largest investment in housing policy that has been made in 20 years. A few weeks ago, discussions between seven parliamentary parties on housing policy began on the initiative of the government. It is not true that nothing is happening in housing policy. It is better to see that in many municipalities the construction of housing has finally begun. This is absolutely necessary because the challenges are very great. Katarina Brännström quickly passes an important distinction between this government and the former government. The old government banned Arbetsförmedlingen from using the efforts and money in a flexible and adapted way. It had set rigid deadlines, and it had a rigid and tight regulatory framework for when it was allowed to use resources. This made it impossible for Arbetsförmedlingen to use resources efficiently. This government has changed that. This does not mean that all problems are solved, but it has become significantly higher levels of freedom for the Public Employment Service to use resources in a flexible way. At the same time, as I also say in my answer: when you are not to put people in measures that are such as the Employment Service controls, but when people are going to real jobs, such as extra services or trainee jobs, it assumes that there are employers who want to hire. I have to admit that this takes longer, before employers are ready to hire, before they can do this and before they know what new opportunities there are. But now we see that these jobs are also growing in numbers.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-33	Mr President, I would like to Unemployment also fell in 2012, Ylva Johansson. It also declined in 2013 following the economic crisis that had occurred at the time. Yet Ylva Johansson calls it a great scandal that the money was not spent. It wasn't serious then. The Minister often now talks about the decline in unemployment, especially in the case of young people. That is why I have said that the youth group has been reduced, because, of course, if we speak in numbers, there will be a reduction. I don't think it's serious to say that. The proportion is another thing. It is good that the Minister is optimistic. And it's great for the government that the business cycle is tough on well right now. It goes up for Sweden. But in the policy we have seen and heard – government policy – there is no incentive for more jobs. There are no suggestions on how to get new jobs. As far as housing policy is concerned, there is a lot of talk but absolutely no workshop. Of course there are huge challenges, and there are many more than me who are worried about how things will go. Arbetsförmedlingen receives stingy criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office. They procure completely the wrong educations. There are shortage professions where people are being yelled at, but these professions do not train the Employment Service to. This applies, for example, to car mechanics. People are trained as cleaners and shop assistants, who are not in demand. Then the Minister says that it is so good now because the Public Employment Service is allowed to control itself. But the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism shows that the government should rule better. There is a lot of talk and hope about what is to come with regard to the current government, but we see very little of the result. I also understand that this is a great challenge even today. We all know that, and we are not going to drop to the level of the criticism that came from Social Democrats Ylva Johansson after the deepest economic crisis that the government has seen in modern times. We realise that this is a major challenge. But it needs to be much better matched to employers' demands. Much better individual assessments are needed. This must be much better for the Public Employment Service. It is a huge work with 74 billion in its budget. Now money was sent back because it was not used. Then one might ask whether the needs were already met. No, of course they weren't. For those born abroad, it is even more difficult to get a job today. It's not something we can turn a blind eye to. There is a need for much greater flexibility and better geographical adjustment. There is hardly one area where we do not need to improve in terms of labour market policy and the Public Employment Service. It's a huge challenge. The lead times are far too long. These are long contractual periods when you have bought educations that are not needed. The government needs to control the Public Employment Service more and better, and not less. I am a little worried about what it will look like when the year has passed with government policy. Will we then see an even greater number of foreign born, for example, who have not come to work? In that case, the challenge only grows. We should try to be positive; so do I. We should be happy that Sweden is doing well, but we cannot ignore the tremendously pressured situation that prevails. In today's DN you can read that the minister is optimistic, and that's probably great. But the question is, Where are the results? It is easy to tell what is to come in the future, but we have not yet seen anything from the government that would stimulate more jobs.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-41	Mr President, I would like to It is even more difficult now for foreign born to get a job, says Katarina Brännström. That's not correct. I think it's dangerous to spread that kind of untruth. The employment rate is increasing among foreign born. It is particularly strong among foreign-born women. It hasn't gotten any harder. There is a larger proportion of foreign born people coming to work now. It is gratifying that there is an upward trend, especially for foreign-born women who are the group that has had and still has the lowest employment rate. So it is now increasing sharply. Katarina Brännström asks: Will we see a larger number of foreign born in unemployment? Yes, we will see that because we have a larger number of foreign born in the population. A large part of the population growth among those of adulthood is now foreign born. Then it goes without saying that the proportion of those who are in labour, in work and unemployed will also be more foreign-born. The challenge, of course, is that no one should stay in unemployment without getting to work. The government is doing a lot, and more will have to be done to get us through this. It is a great challenge, but it is not an insurmountable task. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has higher growth than the United States. We have higher growth than Britain. We have higher growth than Germany. We are making major investments, both private and public. The government has invested 6 billion in the budget to stimulate increased housing construction. The most important thing in order to cope with unemployment is to have strong economic growth, and that is why we are so strongly prioritising this. It is important that labour market policy can match the growth that we now have and the record number of job vacancies that we also have in the labour market today. Katarina Brännström addresses the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has directed at how the management of labour market education has worked. That is quite correct. It was the old government that governed labour market training so mildly that the effect of labour market training was zero – as low as not taking part in labour market training. It has to be said that it is remarkable to achieve such an extremely poor result. That is why we are reshaping policies, changing the governance of labour market training and having a completely different focus on matching and individual assessments. That is something that did not apply under the old government.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-48	Mr President, I would like to We are all happy for the higher growth in Sweden. But I would like to remind you that it must also depend on the policy of the Alliance. It cannot just be that what is bad is the responsibility of the old government, but what is good can the new government take on board when it has ruled for just over 40 days with its own budget. It doesn't get really serious. In the case of women born abroad, it goes without saying that the employment rate must increase. The starting point was incredibly low. I don't think you should beat your chest for that either. 300 000 new jobs are needed if we are to do this, and as I said, there are no government proposals for more jobs. Extraordinary measures are needed when 50% of newcomers do not have upper secondary education and when more than half of the unemployed belong to this particular group. Many even lack primary education. There is a need for fast track, and I think that what the government has started with this is good. Yet there will be only a small group that will be affected by it. As far as the mass is concerned, an incentive is needed. How's there gonna be more jobs? How will there be more simple jobs? There's entry-level work. I think that the government should put a coal on it, because it is a good reform in which employers receive compensation for receiving it. If we are to have a serious debate, I think we need to realise that both the old and the new governments can get credit for different things. This cannot only apply to what is good in the new government, because we have not seen any proposals. I am eagerly awaiting the new policy with the new government proposals, but it seems to me that there is a lot of bickering within. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the debate, and I hope that the Minister for Employment will be able to maintain his optimism. The major challenges we face will be needed – among the biggest challenges in Europe in terms of the dualisation of the labour market.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-54	Mr President, I would like to Every new proposal put forward by this government in terms of economic and employment policy has been met by the Moderates by the fact that it will lead to an increase in unemployment and fewer jobs. That is what you have been arguing all along every time we have put forward a proposal, Katarina Brännström. The result has been the opposite. We have more open jobs, and we have a falling unemployment rate. It is good if we can join together in enjoying this. We currently have about 100,000 vacancies. We've never had so many vacancies in Sweden – I think we're both happy about that – but that also means that labour market policy faces new challenges. It is serious when employers cannot find people to fill the job vacancies, because it risks hampering growth and development. It is therefore important that labour market policies can be pragmatic and responsive. The needs are different. Support is needed for those who will enter and take up more skilled jobs, but new efforts are also needed for those who cannot be matched with skilled jobs, but may need significant efforts to enter the labour market at all. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the debate. I'm sure we'll have reason to come back to the subject. Although developments are moving strongly in the right direction, the challenges remain great.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-58	Mr President, I would like to Andreas Carlson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the police do not deliberately darken when people are victims of crime. It has emerged that in 2014 and 2015, young women have been subjected to harassment and abuse at the We are Sthlm festival and that it has happened in circumstances that have made it difficult to identify and arrest the perpetrators. The fact that women are subjected to such acts is unacceptable. There are men in all social and age groups who practice physical, psychological and sexual violence or commit harassment in both close relationships and in public spaces. The existence of such abuse is a social problem to be combated, and it is therefore important that all such crimes are reported to the police. In addition to police action, increased awareness and prevention are needed across society and by all relevant actors. The police department handles a very large number of events every year. It is up to the Political Authority to assess what is relevant to communicate to the public in relation to these events. When the authority chooses to communicate, it is self-evident that it should be done objectively and neutrally. The information provided shall not violate the confidentiality of preliminary investigations or otherwise prejudice fundamental principles of legal certainty. It is too early to draw any conclusions about the events at the festival and about the possible errors that have been committed by the Police Authority. I therefore welcome the Director of the National Police's announcement to have the matter investigated thoroughly. In this context, it is reasonable to consider whether it is the case that crimes committed against men and women are treated differently in external communication. On the basis of such an investigation, it is then possible to analyse the need to take further action.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-62	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. I wrote this interpellation when it had emerged that during the summers of 2014 and 2015 at the cultural festival We are Sthlm had occurred a large number of sexual harassment and harassment against girls, as the Government also highlighted in the answer. The harassments took place in the crowds in front of the scenes and are reported to have taken place so that several boys or young men surrounded the girls and then groped and harassed them. There was also a report of rape. In the report, the boys and young men were reported to be unaccompanied minors. The events themselves are astounding. Of course, girls and women should be able to go to music entertainment without having to do this. However, it is not the suspicion of the crimes themselves that we are here to debate, but the information that emerged that the police chose to keep these events secret, not public. According to police statements, there was a fear that this would play into the hands of xenophobic forces, and therefore, according to statements by some police officers, the police chose not to say anything about this. The scope and background of this will now be investigated, but for whatever reason, this is of course totally unacceptable. The debate on the unwillingness of the police to give up information that can play into the hands of xenophobic forces has been intense and, in my opinion, it has leaned in different directions in the media debate. In any case, it is a serious suspicion that the police's motives as to whether or not information should be released are affected by who or who the suspects are or where they come from. Mr President, I would like to I share the view of the Minister for Home Affairs' reply that it is positive that the police are now making a thorough investigation of what has happened. I assume that, on the basis of the results of the investigation, a clear strategy can be put forward to avoid similar events in the future or if it is suspected that this is the way to avoid this kind of media spin that we have seen. It is important to maintain trust both in the police and in the judiciary as a whole. The fact that the police are now dealing with the issue through this investigation is good, but my question to the Government was also what measures the Government intends to take to ensure that the police do not deliberately darken when people are subjected to crimes. In addition to this investigation and waiting for the answer to it, what has the Government done to ensure that this will not happen again?
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-70	Mr President, I would like to Of course, before you know what has happened, it is difficult to take action to prevent it from happening again. It is therefore in the nature of the matter that we must wait for the concrete measures taken by the Chief of Police to see what has actually happened. I can be very clear. Police communication should not take political account, nor should any other authority's communication. It's a basic foundation. Citizens should be able to rely on the accuracy and relevance of the information they receive from public authorities. I would also like to make it clear, because there will be a slippage in this discussion, that it is the rule of law – police and courts – that determines the debt issue. To say in newspapers, or for that matter here in the speaker's chair, that one or the other group may have been suspected of having been guilty of something for us on a sloping plane. Anyone who has committed an act must be brought to justice for that act. It's going to be tried in court, and if you're guilty, you're going to end up behind bars. You should not have to be suspected of an act just because you belong to a group or are in a vulnerable situation, such as unaccompanied refugee children. Otherwise, the risk is that we create a social situation with great insecurity for people who have fled from war and oppression. Those who have committed criminal acts, we shall take the right and concrete action against.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-75	Mr President, I would like to I broadly agree with what the Minister for the Interior says in this House. I have talked to police officers who face this reality that crime is being seen to be being committed, but where it is also the responsibility of politicians, police officers and the media not to pull everyone over. When these kinds of discussions are brought up in the media, it is about not pointing out whole groups, but having zero tolerance, not only against this type of crime, but of course against all criminality. I have some examples of headlines from the media. Svenska Dagbladet wrote about it, and SVT had the title Aftonbladet has also written about it, and there have been severe criticisms, among other things, of the chief police officer. As I said in my introduction, Mr President, this has been leaning in many different directions. We also have one with ielä give where it easily becomes this type of headline. It's breaking-news mode all the time, so there'll be big headlines and you pull. I think it is important that, as a citizen, it is felt that the police, and also we politicians, are saying as it is and coming up with proposals and solutions to the challenges and problems they are experiencing. Otherwise, in this breaking-news situation, there is a risk that the concerns that we can see are getting worse. I welcome some of the proposals made by the Minister for the Interior, and we shall also follow this investigation by the police. How does the Government think these events affect confidence in the police? If it is adversely affected, how does the Government intend to work to strengthen the police's confidence in the future?
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-80	Mr President, I would like to Of course you have to tell the truth. That is the whole point of having consistent and transparent communication. The crime against refugees and crime where refugees are perpetrators commits refugees no more crimes than Christian Democrats, Social Democrats, Swedish Democrats, Stockholmers, Gothenburgers or Malmöers. Of course, they commit crimes, we should not be fooled by that, and those who commit crimes should be subject to the efforts of the judiciary. If they are found guilty in court, they shall be put under lock and key. Has this discussion damaged the confidence of the police? I think it initially did. It is clearly a discussion where it appears that the police are covering up relevant information for the citizens of society is not a good discussion. The only way to respond to this is to show that you are transparent and relevant in your information and that you do not hide anything, no matter what reason it would be.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-82	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the government's announcement that we'll wait for the investigation. It is important that all the cards are put on the table in order to restore confidence in the police, if it may have been damaged, as it may have done as the Minister for Home Affairs was on. I was out with the police's unaccompanied group here in Stockholm a few weeks ago to follow their work. It was a very good job done by the police along with the social services. This applies, in particular, to the work directed at unaccompanied minors in Stockholm. There are more or less street children here. It is a complex reality that the police face and in which these children live. The children, who come from land areas in North Africa, are very vulnerable to poverty. In their vulnerability, they risk exposing others to crime. The police are doing a very good job here. That same evening there were about a hundred masked men who had decided to go out and take matters into their own hands. It was a shocking experience to look at the anxiety and fear that was there at the Central Station. We must, of course, have zero tolerance towards this type of vigilante or what they call themselves to help the police, so to speak. At the same time, good work should continue to be done to prevent vulnerable unaccompanied minors from exposing others to crime. When it comes to festivals, the K ristdemocrats in the City of Stockholm have put forward a requirement for camera surveillance. A question to the Government: How do you view the possibility of having more camera surveillance at this type of event?
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-87	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I object to Andreas Carlson's language. Those who mask themselves, abuse police officers and threaten guards do not take the law into their own hands. They pose a danger to the rule of law and the law enforcement authorities. We must be crystal clear that this is not acceptable. We cannot have – as in this case – right-wing Poles rushing around the streets of Stockholm and threatening people. It has nothing to do with justice or vigilante, it's a lynch mob, nothing else. We want to extend the possibilities of camera surveillance under certain circumstances, and we have set up an investigation to review the issue. I am not sure whether it can be an effective tool in this regard. Here it is about dense crowds in the dark, and then it is doubtful if the camera is as good as proof securing tools. But I'm no stranger to camera surveillance. We've set up an investigation to look at the issue. I am not prepared to reject camera surveillance, but I am perhaps not as hopeful as Andreas Carlson that it is an effective measure. I'm more interested in working with the organizers. The organisers are required, whether it is a football arrangement or a concert arrangement, to be able to ensure the safety of the visitors. If there are as many incidents as it did on Bråvalla, for example, where there were rapes, festival organizers must tighten up their security work. Perhaps the police should also make sharper demands on security work. With these words, I would like to thank Andreas Carlson for a good debate.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-92	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked the Prime Minister what measures he is prepared to take to ensure that the migration crisis is examined as soon as possible with regard to the handling of both the government and the authorities. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The refugee situation has put considerable strain on society's functionality. Although the work is mainly carried out by municipalities, county councils, county boards, authorities, civil society organisations and the business community, the government has, of course, an overall responsibility for managing the situation. The Government has continuously conducted talks with authorities and other relevant actors. Location images and other information have come in from different directions. These discussions and bases were important and necessary for the government to get a picture of the development. As a result of this overall evidence and the information gradually received, the government has taken around 60 decisions as part of managing the refugee situation. Swedish society is fundamentally robust, but the ability to prevent, resist and manage crises and other pressures needs to be continuously developed. The development work must take into account changes in the world and experiences from the management of past events. It is therefore natural and important that work on the refugee situation be examined, not least in order to be able to learn lessons for the future. The evaluation must focus on the work of both the government and the authorities. I note that the Swedish National Audit Office has decided to open an investigation into the management of the refugee crisis by the Government and the relevant authorities. As previously announced, the Government also intends to initiate an independent evaluation. The review that Allan Widman is calling for will therefore take place.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-97	Mr President, I would like to It is quite correct that the office for crisis management in the Government Office has been moved from the Council of State Committee to the Ministry of Justice. Perhaps we can come back to the wisdom of that reorganisation. Effective crisis management depends, among other things, on the recognition of the existence of a crisis. For a few weeks early this autumn, Sweden went from being a country that seemed to welcome everyone who went to our borders to embark on the journey towards what Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson now refers to as the EU minimum level. Mr President, I would like to In particular, the government and the Minister for the Interior's own assessment is that up to half of the 162 000 asylum seekers who arrived last year may be forced to return, after all, raises questions about the policy pursued. It is important to point out that it is also about the preparedness of our authorities. As a resident in Malmö, for a few weeks late in the autumn I was able to find that there were more than 1,000 people staying inside a single room, namely in Malmömässan down in the harbour. The Migration Board felt that these people were in a waiting room, so there was no access to sanitary facilities other than toilets with washbasins. It was not possible to pick up prescribed medicines – antibiotics and other things – because it was not allowed to leave the facility. That is the case, Mr President, with a lack of preparedness for crisis, that it almost always leads to unnecessary human suffering and economic damage. I am therefore extremely pleased that the Minister for the Interior now wants an independent review. Of course, the question of follow-up is: What kind of scrutiny does the government see before it? Is it a traditional, state, public investigation or is it a more independent Commission – such a Commission that the government set up after the tsunami, the so-called disaster Commission where both the composition and the directives were decided by agreement with the political opposition? One thing that strikes me in the interpellation response – for which I think I initially forgot to say thank you – is that the Minister for Home Affairs does not use the term My question is: Does the Minister of the Interior think that what started early this autumn and is still going on in some sense should be described as a crisis or not?
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-104	Mr President, I would like to We start at the end: Yes, I think this is and has been a crisis. We have also triggered the crisis preparedness mechanisms that have been in place in the Government Office. As I described in my reply, we have taken some sixty different government decisions, and there are countless other activities. For example, we have given assignments to the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection to both coordinate operations and inform the government. This leads to the insinuation that Allan Widman had at the beginning of his speech. The Prime Minister has chosen to strengthen crisis preparedness in Sweden by having a collective responsibility for order, security and crisis preparedness under the Ministry of the Interior at the Ministry of Justice, which means that the person responsible for the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, the Civil Protection Agency, the police and the Swedish Security Service is also responsible for the Government's crisis preparedness and the Crisis Management Office. I think it is a system that serves us well and that makes us better equipped to face this type of external influence. Allan Widman asked about the shape. We're not quite there yet. But we should remember that the Swedish National Audit Office is carrying out its review and that the KU will carry out a comprehensive review. I've seen an extensive battery of questions sent to the department about it. I can well see that this government will make an independent assessment of the efforts it has made in much the same way as the previous government did in connection with the fire in Västmanland, which was a very extensive event. Of course, we want this basis to be as good as possible. I think from my horizon that Sweden has passed this challenge very well. But that doesn't mean that there can't be people who have different perspectives and can see other flaws than those I can see from my horizon. It is important that in this work we can listen and take part of other images from different authorities and from different parts of the country, not least from the Malmö region, which Allan Widman presented. In this sense, we imagine the work. So it will not be the same as the post-Tsunami work, but more like what was done in connection with the fire in Västmanland. We'll look in different directions and compare. It is clear that it was a hardship for those who were allowed to spend 24 hours or two at Malmömässan. Nevertheless, I believe that this crisis should be put into context. During World War II, we received 20,000 refugees. During the Balkan crisis, we received 60 000 people. Last year we received 163 000 people, and the bulk was concentrated in four months. Not only is it the largest number ever, but it is more than twice as much as the previous largest. In this extremely difficult situation, society essentially passed the task. Just one night all this time, someone could not be prepared for a bed and a roof over his head. It's still a pretty good rating for Swedish emergency preparedness. But with that said, I think we should be humble and see what we can learn from this. I refer to these people as refugees, but we have not made clear which of them are refugees and not, but it is the Migration Board and the Migration Court that do so. The description that has been attributed to me in the media that about half can stay is the answer to the question how many were allowed to stay during the time when Allan Widman's party was in government. If there were to be the same proportions between rejection and approval now it would be those figures.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-110	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry about my lawsuit. The Minister for the Interior says that it will be much more effective now because it brings together the government's emergency preparedness functions under one and the same roof. Of course, it sounds extremely good in many ways, while it is something of a truth with modification, because the responsibility for military defence, which is an important part of the overall crisis management capability, lies under Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, while civil defence is under Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. Mr President, I would like to In many ways, it may be useful to do this kind of coordination. But when the really big crises occur, it is not only a department or a single authority that is affected, but then the impact on Swedish society is much wider. And that is when the question is put at its head. Is it a prime minister who can best deal with cross-departmental issues, with the competition and territorial thinking that we know exist not only between ministries but also between authorities, or is it a trade minister? Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Anders Ygeman emphasises this with 60 decisions taken by the government. When the tsunami occurred, no government decisions were taken that were documented and subsequently followed up. This is a good basis, one might say, for the independent review that both I and the Minister for the Interior hope will now come. Referring to the review work of the Constitutional Committee is in a sense relevant. But it is then a question of constitutional scrutiny. I believe that the review of the migration crisis that has occurred in 2015 – 2016 must be far broader and also cover the practical aspects. The Home Secretary says it was a single night that we couldn't prepare beds and shelters for people. That is a bit of a question of definition, Mr President. When I was on the night train and morning train from Malmö Central Station last autumn, I could observe that a large number of people were lying on the floor inside the station for several months. It didn't seem organized in any way. Mr President, I would like to In answer to my question as to what kind of independent review the government sees before it, the Minister for the Interior, as I assumed, now refers to public investigation and to the National Audit Office. But, as I see it, he clearly rejects the idea of a Commission of the kind set up after the tsunami and where both composition and directives were based on political unity between the then government and the political opposition. I am sorry, Mr President. If a thorough and independent investigation is not carried out, any other investigation risks a lack of public confidence. It is important to say that robust, broad and independent audits are a prerequisite for us to be able to deal with the next crisis better than the previous one.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-117	Mr President, I would like to This situation will not only be examined by the impartial investigation that will now be set up. It will also be evaluated impartially by the Swedish National Audit Office, as I mentioned. Then it will be examined by the KU. I would, of course, like Allan Widman's colleagues to emphasise the constitutional direction of the review of the Constitutional Committee as clearly as Allan Widman does; it has been announced in and out of the debate a lot of things that are not primarily constitutional in nature. It remains to be seen whether we can reach a political consensus on the directives for that review. That is, of course, my hope, and it is not something we seek to fight about. Whether it's a matter of reviewing Reinfeldt's government or Lövven management, the purpose of the review is to learn lessons, so that in the next crisis, whatever it may be, we can handle it better and be better equipped. There's Allan Widman and I in total agreement. Of course, we want the mandate and the directives of this investigation to make it possible to ensure that we learn the lessons we need to learn. This is also confirmed by the fact that the constitutional part is reviewed by the Constitutional Committee and that the Swedish National Audit Office is carrying out its review. If there are three reviews, hopefully we can learn wise lessons for the future.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-120	Mr President, I would like to It seems to me a little uncertain to what extent the Swedish National Audit Office can evaluate the efforts made by the government in the context of the policy pursued. However, the Swedish National Audit Office – as does the Swedish National Audit Office all the time – can review the authorities' actions regarding both cost-effectiveness and other aspects. I myself have been on the Constitutional Committee for a long time. I know that, unfortunately, sometimes it is not only purely constitutional that is being tested. I regret that, because such a glitch naturally threatens the confidence and respect of the main parliamentary scrutiny bodies: the Constitutional Committee. However, I note, Mr President, that the Minister for the Interior seems willing to have a dialogue with the political opposition around directives and perhaps also the composition of an independent review. I think that bodes well for the future. I believe that it will strengthen this review in a way that will give it greater confidence not only in the political opposition but also in the whole of the Swedish public. I look forward to an extended hand from the government on this issue. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for the interpellation debate.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-124	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the discussion. I welcome the fact that we can work together to ensure that we learn wise lessons from the crisis that we are still partly in. I hope for the constructive contribution of Liberals to improving Sweden's crisis management capacity.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-125	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me whether the government will grant additional resources to the police and whether I and the government remain committed to not re-establishing the emergency services. Roger Haddad has also asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that the police are able to deal with the demands for police preparedness due to the increased terrorist threat level without going beyond ordinary crime prevention activities. My view is that the Swedish police have shown over the past year that the authorities have the flexibility and ability to solve many difficult tasks under difficult conditions. The transformation of the police into an authority is an important explanation for the fact that the Police Authority has been able to gather together to deal with both the migration flows and the elevated terrorist threat level. However, it is clear that the situation is forcing the Police Authority to make operational priorities and that this may have a negative impact on the operation. It is therefore reasonable to review the need for long-term resource reinforcements. The focus should be on maintaining a strong police activity and not on building restrictive side activities. I therefore stand by the fact that it is not at present such that the emergency police should be reinstated. In the light of recent developments around the world, the Swedish Police Authority came in on 25 January with a basis for the government. The evidence shows that, in the period up to 2020, the Agency may need to increase the number of police officers by between 1 500 and 2 500 and the number of civilian employees by between 1 000 and 1 600 persons. The Authority considers that the addition of funds of between SEK 1.8 and SEK 2.8 billion will be needed to finance the investment. In the budget base to be provided by the Police Authority by 1 March, the Agency intends to specify its resource needs. The government will then, as usual, prepare this in the context of work on next year's draft budget. It is important that the Police Authority has the ability to intervene to avert a potential terrorist attack. In accordance with the broad agreement reached between the Government and several parliamentary parties, the Government intends to commission the Police Authority before the summer to investigate how the intervention capability can be ensured. However, the current increase in the level of terrorist threats does not in itself imply that the resources used for the regular crime prevention work are used for other measures. On the contrary, crime prevention is central to the long-term prevention of terrorism.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-131	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman for your answer. The Liberals submitted this interpellation with a number of questions on account of the fact that the National Police Commissioner, Dan Eliasson, appointed by the Minister for the Interior almost a year ago, called to the government for a substantial increase in resources, 2 – 3 billion, in the coming years. That was 25 January, Mr President. But it wasn't really news. Already in October, November and as late as a committee dialogue with the Justice Committee in December, this information was presented to the Riksdag. It sounds to the Home Secretary's answer as saying: Yes, let us look at this question! Let us follow this question! If the situation worsens or if migratory flows are not controlled, or if the elevated terrorist threat level continues, we will review what the police need and the Security Service needs. I do not think it is a reasonable analysis or a reasonable assessment of the seriousness of the situation, Minister for the Interior. This was already up in October. The government has been able to act earlier on the basis of that information. We have had debates this spring. Well, then it was a completely different world. It was a completely different reality. We said then that we both had hopes that the new police organization would land in more resources in external service. What happened during the fall? Yes, the chief of police says that there is a significant increase in the workload of border police operations and external security. We have a National Police Commissioner in Sweden who according to the newspaper Expressen is surprised that it is worried in several of our suburbs and areas in Swedish cities. He's surprised. I do not understand how such statements can be made when you hold that position. I would like to hear whether the Minister for the Interior is also surprised that we now have 53 vulnerable areas, of which 14 are particularly vulnerable areas. In my municipality of residence, Västerås, we have an area that I have been following for ten years that unfortunately is classified as vulnerable. The S-Communal Council said in a comment in the VLT the other day, Mr President, that it was fortunate that the area did not end up among the particularly vulnerable. It shows that, unfortunately, many politicians do not take this seriously. The second issue that we have tried to raise in addition to the police's resources and preparedness concerns the emergency services. We asked the Government a written question. We received answers in mid-November. It says there will be no emergency police. That's out of the question. The days after that there was a television feature in SVT, where the Minister for the Interior answers Sigtuna Municipality – the S-Communal Council there actually wants to reinstate the emergency police as reinforcement. They have made a positive interpretation. They even received a written answer stating that the question is at the top of the agenda. This is a highly topical issue. That is why we need clarification. We can't have different messages from the Home Secretary about the emergency services. Is it going on, or isn't it going on? I'd like to know today.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-139	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying that I am a little surprised by Roger Haddad's tone. First of all, Roger Haddad, then the People's Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, abolished the emergency police. The reason the bourgeois government did so was that it had not been used. I'm not planning on reinstating the emergency services. I have expressed this in the answer, in the SVT interview to which Roger Haddad refers and in the letter reply given to the politicians in Sigtuna. On the other hand, I am prepared to look at different intermediate forms. We have police volunteers today. Then the gap is quite large up to our well-trained police force. However, this should be based on the needs of the police and not on Roger Haddad's letter reading or television viewing. Secondly, Roger Haddad seems to think that there are police officers on the shelf. It doesn't. We have exactly the number of police officers that Roger Haddad's government planned for and that Roger Haddad thinks we should have. Roger Haddad has not raised a crown for any more policemen — not a crown! So this is nothing to be surprised about. It is Roger Haddad who has dimensioned the police at the level we have today. The third question that Roger Haddad asks is whether I am surprised that it is our socially vulnerable areas in Sweden that are also affected by crime. No, Roger Haddad, I am not and for many reasons, but the main reason is that we have had a bourgeois government for eight years where unemployment has risen, where school results have fallen and where the economic divides have grown. If you pursue this policy, reduce taxes and cut by over SEK 100 billion, you can't be surprised that you get a social vulnerability as a receipt of the policy you conduct. Our policy is to reverse this trend. Youth unemployment is now falling instead of rising as when Roger Haddad ruled Sweden. Now unemployment is falling instead of rising as when Roger Haddad ruled Sweden. Employment is rising, and it is rising most among foreign-born women – not among ethnic Swedes in the middle of life, as Roger Haddad's Prime Minister put it. We are addressing these challenges. The purpose of the police report is for us to have more police officers in the most vulnerable areas. We see in Brå's report that the security of society is increasing and that the vulnerability to crime is decreasing, but not among the second generation of Swedes. Therefore, we need to be honest and transparent about the situation in these socially vulnerable areas and be prepared to take relevant measures. In my area of responsibility, the relevant measure is that there will be more police officers who have everyday contact with the citizens, solve security problems and create security.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-149	Mr President, I would like to First of all, a comment on labour policy: unlike the Minister for the Interior, I have been on the Labour Market Committee, I have been a councillor in Västerås and I have been chairman of the Employment Service. The intervention of the Minister for the Interior shows how ignorant he is about youth unemployment. It declined and employment increased long before Minister Ygeman ended up in the government. I am now going back to the interpellation. When it came to emergency services, we decommissioned it in 2012 because it was not used. But do not compare, Mr. Prime Minister, 2012 with 2014 and not 2015 in the autumn when we had gigantic migratory flows! After all, the Government is out every other day and says that he wants to take even more steps to repress migratory flows. The head of the Swedish police says that they prioritise off traffic offences and easier drug offences, and you can't go out where it's messy. We can accept this now. The public can accept this now, but it will not be accepted in the long term if the situation persists. Contrary to what Ygeman said in his speech, Mr President, the Head of the National Police said that the resources you want to see should go to the National Task Force. It's supposed to go to counter-terrorist threats. It should go to increased border control and to protect our asylum accommodations. He hasn't asked for any of these bobbies they have in London to patrol. But Ygeman is standing here talking about police volunteers. No, Mr President, we want to know what type of emergency police is at stake, because if I have read correctly, the emergency police's mandate is quite different in terms of, for example, the possibility of using weapons. They can act and intervene in a completely different way. It can't be an ordinary watchman without special privileges. It can't be a police volunteer. There is thus a gap between what the chief police officer Dan Eliasson is asking for and the picture, the analysis and the posts I hear from Minister Anders Ygeman. We from the Liberals are very concerned. Now my party is not in the government. It is the government that governs the kingdom, not the opposition, not the Liberals in parliament. We are in opposition, and we are putting forward our proposals. I know exactly every sentence in the Home Secretary's comments, from last year. It was exactly the same texts that were read out now and that were rhetorical in a debate that we had last year: that it is I who am in opposition and as the representative of the then People's Party of Liberals who are going to spend more money and prioritise. But it is Anders Ygeman who is responsible for the interior minister in Stefan Lövven's government. You're welcome to act.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-157	Mr President, I would like to I will give Roger Haddad the right to one thing: it is the government that governs the kingdom, not the opposition. The voters and the kingdom should be very happy about that, because otherwise it would have been that the emergency services had been abolished in 2012 because they did not think it was necessary. It might have been felt that it was needed again in 2014 and restored it. Wow, 2016, now we don't seem to need anyone, so let's get rid of it! And in 2018, we're gonna put it back in place. Roger Haddad, you can't reason. We must dimension the real, well-trained police so that they can meet the challenges they face. Therefore, my message is that when we have calmly, together with the police, gone through the budget base that has been submitted to the department, we will report on the level that we believe the long-term staffing needs. We will also redeploy the police so that they get an even better education, with police college education, as they have in Norway, Finland and Denmark. This will also be good for the reputation of the police. The whole aim of the reform that we have, after all, agreed in this House is to bring more police officers closer to the citizens. So have we, Roger Haddad. We have more policemen now than ever when the Alliance Government has ruled Sweden. We have more police employees than ever when the Alliance Government has ruled Sweden. Now more policemen are being deployed closer to the citizens. In Rinkeby it will open a new police station with over 200 police employees, because it is an area where citizens have the right to make higher demands on their security. In the southern and western regions, where Malmö and Gothenburg are located, human resources have been strengthened. It goes without saying, however, that the fact that we have been carrying out border controls for the first time since 1994 is a heavy burden on the police. There are several hundred police officers involved in a task that was not previously required. It is clear that it will affect dimensionation if it becomes long-term. This does not mean, however, that we can escape from our obligations to those living in the socially disadvantaged areas, that we can turn a blind eye to the fact that crime is higher there than elsewhere. That is why we need more policemen there who can make contact with the citizens, who can solve their everyday problems and crime and restore security. I wish that the former moderate-led government, which included Roger Haddad's party, would have done more for socially vulnerable areas. I wish you had actually reduced unemployment rather than increased it during the eight years you were in power, that youth unemployment had fallen instead of rising as it did in the eight years you were in power and that the educational results had risen instead of having the worst development of the OECD during the time you were in power. Instead of spending money on major tax cuts, especially for those with higher education, you could have invested in the future, investing in these areas that you allowed to decay. Now we've changed the government. We've changed politics. Now more police officers are getting closer to the citizens in the socially vulnerable areas.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-166	Mr President, I would like to One should not exaggerate that the state and the police should resolve the whole situation in the alienated areas. It is ultimately a municipal responsibility. Please call your Social Democratic councillors in Gothenburg and Malmö, who, as long as I can remember, have always governed these municipalities politically. They're the ones responsible for the alienation areas. They are responsible for preschool, school, recreation centre, field assistants, social services – everything! It is ultimately not the Swedish Government or the Swedish Parliament. Mr President, I would like to In the same package and statement, the head of the Swedish police wanted a fast track. He wants to get cops out of here fast. Here, too, the Minister for the Interior, that is, the head of the chief of police, the principal, has talked about real ordinary police officers – who are also about to be academised. You're the government. You may have the view that the education should be extended from two and a half to three years and become academic. You have the right to suggest it. But the chief of police is asking for police officers shortly, and he is also proposing some kind of fast track. I don't know what he means by that. Then there is the question of particularly vulnerable areas. It was a very serious report from the chief police officer in November 2015 on particularly vulnerable areas. 14 of the 53 areas are particularly vulnerable. I have listened to the police in Gothenburg, Erik Nord and others who have spoken in Gothenburg-Posten, and to the police in Örebro during a return visit two weeks ago. They do not receive new resources to deal with these particularly vulnerable areas. They are expected to re-prioritise within the framework. Those of us who have worked in municipal politics or who have been responsible, such as the Government, for the budget of the Government or here in Parliament know that reprioritization within the framework is not the same as reinforcements. We really want to ask the Government to take this seriously.
i-fcc1e31dcc63cab7-171	Mr President, I would like to In 2012, Roger Haddad shut down the emergency services. Now he wants to restore it. It may well be forgiven that in a few years you change your mind. I respect that, and I won't criticize Roger Haddad for that. But when Roger Haddad here in the speaker's chair fails to hold the same opinion for more than 12 minutes, I get a little worried. Roger Haddad began the interpellation shift by saying that the government is responsible for the socially vulnerable areas. He forced me to answer what the government is going to do if the government shares the surprise that he claims the chief of police has expressed. When I humbly point out to Roger Haddad that the Liberals have been running the country for eight years, it is suddenly not the government's fault but the municipalities' fault. Roger Haddad! You must be able to hold an opinion longer than 12 minutes.
