i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-2	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me what direction I think a review of Samhall should take and what such a review would consist of. I have recently answered similar questions in the interpellation on 26 April by Ali Esbati 2015/ 16:532 on Samhall's development. As before, my answer is that Samhall's mission is to create developing jobs for people with disabilities with reduced working capacity. It is Arbetsförmedlingen that directs people to Samhall during an employment contract. Such employment may take place for persons who cannot find a job other than protected work and whose needs cannot be met by other measures. The employment rate of those with disabilities with reduced working capacity is significantly lower than that of the rest of the population, and the number of unemployed with disabilities at the Employment Service is still at very high levels. Many also have very long periods of unemployment. We need to gain more knowledge of the process from the assessment of a person with a disability with reduced working capacity to who is actually assigned and offered employment in Samhall. I will take the initiative to secure knowledge of this issue. Samhall will offer safe and developing jobs throughout the country.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment, for the answer to my interpellation! I asked the interpellation because it concerns important questions. It is a question of the possibility of working for people with disabilities. The Minister for Labour often returns to the positive development of the Swedish labour market. That is true and is pleasing. I think we are all pleased that Sweden is now in a boom with more jobs. But even if some parts of Sweden are doing well given the boom we have, there are many that are not doing as well. They are the furthest from the labour market. They are the ones who find it particularly difficult to find work. They still find it difficult to get it and in certain situations even more difficult. One warning that has come is precisely about Samhall, the state company that has as its main purpose to give jobs to people with disabilities, among other things. This applies in particular to persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, people with disabilities are considered to be a particularly vulnerable group in the labour market. Recently, a review of Samhall was presented in the media by Svenska Dagbladet, where Samhall was accused, right or wrong, of culling those who are most disabled by wanting to achieve certain economic goals that are set. The critics say that Samhall thus employs fewer of the most vulnerable and that it avoids, among other things, hiring people with intellectual disabilities. Samhall is also said to have ended up in a situation where it does not want to deal with hard-to-place people and people like Samhall in many ways were actually created to help. Then we know that the company has developed, and also that on assignment. The Minister for Labour and the Government are trying to present the picture of a clearly improved labour market. But those who are not covered are often forgotten. For the disabled, it has not become much easier. In this discussion, it is of course also important to add and clarify what is Samhall's mission. Is it supposed to employ all groups of people with disabilities? Is it supposed to hire them as with the most powerful obstacles, etcetera? The Minister for Labour has responded to the criticisms of the media. One could read in Svenska Dagbladet on April 4 that the Minister will make a review of Samhall and possibly also take help from Statskontoret. That's why I put the interpellation. It would be interesting to know what direction the Minister for Labour thinks a review of Samhall should take and what such a review would consist of. Those who come to Samhall are not chosen by Samhall, if I understand it correctly. It is the Arbetsförmedlingen that makes the selection of the people Samhall is going to employ. In this situation, perhaps it should rather be an evaluation of Arbetsförmedlingen's methods. I would like to return to my next speech when I have received some clarifications from the Minister for Labour.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-14	Mr President, I would like to It is quite right that the group of people with disabilities with reduced working capacity has a surprisingly stable too low employment rate. There is almost no difference at all depending on the economic situation of that group. It is, of course, very serious. My assessment is that, in a situation that we now have with very strong developments in the labour market, we should also be able to ensure that people with disabilities have a stronger position in the labour market. It is now one of the assignments to Arbetsförmedlingen. This applies, in particular, to young people with disabilities under the 90-day guarantee and to ensuring that all young people enter the labour market. I share the concern expressed by Christian Barenfeld. We have a group that does not seem to be helped by a good economic situation in the labour market. Therefore, special efforts are also required. As far as Samhall is concerned, I do not agree with the picture that Christian Holm Barenfeld here paints. I may have misunderstood it, but as I understood, Holm Barenfeld said that Samhall does not want to employ people who are very far from the labour market or have severe or complex disabilities. There was something in that direction. I don't share that image, but I want to make sure that's the people you hire at Samhall because that's the mission. The mission of Samhall is to be an opportunity for those who cannot get a job in any other way, for example through wage subsidies or by entering the regular labour market in other ways. I want to make sure that is really how it works, because that is the intention. It can be noted that the Funka inquiry, which was set up and worked under the old government and led by Cristina Husmark Pehrsson, presented many proposals in the field of people with disabilities and their ability to enter the labour market. Many of those proposals have been implemented, and others we are about to implement. It can also be noted that this investigation did not investigate Samhall. This means that we need to review part of the function in terms of who Samhall is working with and how it is going for them. One particular thing that I want to look at is the development contracts that Samhall has worked with for a short time, see how that group has gone and how to work on it. It is a new mission that Samhall has received that is a little different from the core mission. It is not a question of all other possibilities being exhausted when you get a development employment, but it is also a temporary employment.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-22	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'd better make it clear that it's on the record. When I asked my questions, it was with reference to the criticism that emerged in the media, in this case SvD's review. We all know that it is not necessarily the case that all media audits are automatically 100% right. It was not in that situation that my own words and observations were made, but it was on the basis of the criticism that emerged. I agree with the Minister for Labour that there are many good proposals in the Funka investigation. Some are done, but a number are not. I hope they can be implemented, because I think they would have a good effect. The investigation was prepared by Cristina Cristina Pehrsson, then Minister of Social Security. It highlighted many important areas, but we certainly need to highlight even more. Samhall hires a wide range of people. They have regulations that say what should apply, what compensation is given and how to quit. You can't quit because of lack of work or dumping prices. It is important when it is a state-owned company and, as far as I know, it has not been convicted. Of course, Samhall does many good things, and that is almost life-long jobs. What I find interesting is the development contracts, which are in one year with a possible extension for another year. I understand that they have been successful and that many have moved on from development to other jobs. Some have probably moved on to other jobs at Samhall. It would be interesting to hear the Minister's view on whether it would not be reasonable to consider that everyone who comes to Samhall starts through a development job to see if there are other possibilities. On the other hand, Samhall should be able to be there if there are no other possibilities. When you listen to the Minister for Labour but also to other representatives of the government and Social Emocrats and thus the LO unions and trade unions, it feels in some discussions a bit like back to basics and the protected workshop of the 70s and 80s. Even in the interpellation debate with Ali Esbati to which the Minister referred, there was much about industry instead of service and so on. In fact, we have a completely different society today and do other things. Perhaps it is not entirely successful to have a focus on looking back at how it used to be and how we did it then. Rather, solutions should be found to adapt the organisation to society. We have many people in need of employment, whether it is Samhall or various forms of wage support. We have a number of proposals on wage subsidies, which we think are too many. We should focus and rather just have a couple of pay subsidies left. We have too many young people in the employment phase who need to get into work in one way or another. There are great challenges. What is the government's proposal to move forward there, in addition to reviewing Samhall? How could this examination lead to this?
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-31	Mr President, I would like to Like Christian Holm Barenfeld, I have heard very positive about the effects of development contracts. That is why, among other things, I want to find out whether the positive signals are correct and whether that is a good way we should build on. Before we take big and further steps there, it is important to find out how it really works. It is from the background that I want to give a mission to Statskontoret, for example, to look at this. Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that we can and should not go backwards, but we must move forward. With regard to the type of tasks and jobs that Samhall is to work with, it is clear that when you have a job to be an employer for those people who are not able to find a job anywhere, which therefore cannot get a job with those employers where you can get employment with, for example, wage subsidies, this means that there is a need for different types of work and that these are available all over the country, in order to be an employer precisely for those who are farthest from the labour market due to reduced work capacity and disabilities. It is important to ensure that you really have the opportunity to be that kind of employer. It is extremely important and also an important foundation of value in our society that all people should be able to contribute based on their ability and receive a salary for the work they do. It sometimes requires special employment and adjustments. Samhall is an important player in order to do this, and it is therefore important that it works in the best possible way. I want to make sure it does.
i-BVbJ5QqxHU96Lg9dzb8YoR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer! It's good to look forward. When I asked the question about the return and looking back, it was one of the answers from the Minister in the interview in Svenska Dagbladet. It says that the Minister thinks that the tasks offered should be looked at and that many tasks place high demands on social skills, which is a change. She referred to the fact that 20 years ago there was a more protected business. It was one of the parts, but it was also a combination of various comments from trade union representatives. It is good if we get clarification here that Ylva Johansson and the government intend to look forward, not backwards, and develop the business in the time we live in. Although we may have different solutions, I hope that on both sides of the policy it is important that people who are far from the labour market and have disabilities are offered opportunities to enter the labour market and that we are doing our best, even if we want to do these parts differently.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-38	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the debate. I hope that we can come back to it, because it is an important issue. It is extremely important for the individuals we are talking about that all people are able to work fully and get a salary for their work. There Samhall is not the only actor, but a very important one, which we should protect but also develop. I therefore hope that we can come back to the debate when we have an even better basis on which to base our knowledge.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-40	Anette Åkesson has asked me how I think the tax limit should look in the future for individuals who perform services in areas where people help each other. The question describes phenomena in the so-called collaborative economy. The sharing economy can be understood as transactions where under-utilised assets are sold, rented out, co-owned or shared-used. It can also be about offers to perform services. This in itself is nothing new, but digitalisation of the economy has increased accessibility and reduced transaction costs. Furthermore, the confidence of citizens and businesses in the phenomenon has increased and volumes have increased significantly. Overall, this poses new challenges for tax systems that need to be identified and analysed. Therefore, the Government commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency to map and analyse how the collaborative economy affects tax systems. An overall report was presented in March 2016 and experience from control activities must be reported by 31 October 2016. In the interim report, the Swedish Tax Agency notes that the tax rules are neutral between operators regardless of whether they operate in the traditional economy or in the sharing economy. On the other hand, the rules become complex and, in some situations, it becomes more difficult to anticipate the consequences of taxation on both the provider and the provider. Furthermore, the Swedish Tax Agency sees a risk of tax errors in the sharing economy as the possibilities for effective controls can be made more difficult. The Government is closely monitoring the development of the collaborative economy, and the Swedish Tax Agency's overall report on the assignment will be an important basis in the analysis of whether there is a need for regulatory changes.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-45	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. However, I do not think that it really came to the core problem, namely that some private services are taxed while others do not. Digitalisation makes it possible to make better use of resources, and the collaborative economy as a concept designates those areas where it has been possible to productise services between individuals, i.e. redeploy services or products in such a way as to make money out of them. The other night, for example, a story was shown on the news where a woman via an app made her toilet available to visitors in the city for payment. That you should be able to make money out of your toilet, no one could have imagined a few years ago, and it's really just your imagination that sets limits. The sharing economy opens up opportunities for individuals and businesses to be creative, to find new solutions and to make money. The Swedish Tax Agency's report on the collaborative economy is very interesting, and it is with excitement that I am also waiting for the autumn final report. But what about the private services that, according to the Swedish Tax Agency, are to be taxed but not, probably largely because the persons in question are not even aware that they are to be taxed? This is the case, for example, when we as individuals exchange services with each other. Today it is happening privately and on a small scale, but with new technical possibilities it may take place in a considerably larger range than today, and somewhere goes the limit when it becomes something for the legislation to deal with. Uberpop is a car sharing service where individuals via an app offer others to ride in their car for payment. In Sweden, the taxi industry reacted quickly to Uberpop and pointed to the different regulations that exist and are not being followed. Judgments have confirmed that Uberpop violates rules, drivers have been convicted of illegal taxi traffic, and Uberpop is no longer available with us. One might wonder what would have happened if the taxi industry did not push to stop Uberpop. Skattevet has developed guidelines for what applies when driving people for payment and when renting out your private residence. There is also information on what applies when switching services, but the demarcation is difficult. If I help the Minister for Finance to change the ceiling against the Minister for Finance helping me paint my house, will we comply with the regulations with safety measures contained in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on roofing, with anchoring with lifelines and other things? Probably not. We probably do not even think that it is a service that is taxable from the first crown, nor do we see ourselves as part of the collaborative economy. At the same time, it goes without saying that no one wants to engage in the regulation of private individuals who help each other; it is something positive with helpful people and, in principle, impossible to follow up and control. Nevertheless, it is an important issue, and it may become increasingly important as private services are provided and exchanged on an ever-increasing scale. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore how we ensure that the demarcation is treated equally in all areas where individuals perform services.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-52	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the interpellation. This is an interesting issue which needs to be debated and analysed more than has been done so far, as these phenomena grow. As Anette Åkesson points out, this is something positive. It is about using existing resources more efficiently. It is about using the houses, toilets or whatever it may be, which everyone owns, in a more efficient way. This is basically a very positive thing, and it can, of course, open up to new forms of enterprise and new entrepreneurs. Here only imagination sets limits on how we can use the new technologies to make more effective use of existing resources than we do today. As Anette Åkesson points out, it will also lead to a need to have a closer look at what new border drawing problems may arise in this type of activity. Switching favors with each other is nothing new. It's been around for a long time. You help each other to move, Neighbors or friends help each other to repaint the house, redo the garden or whatever it may be. This is nothing new. On the other hand, there are some phenomena today that increase the number of services that are exchanged, and it is important to look at the problem of border drawing and how to ensure that the necessary regulations are complied with. I think we're just at the beginning of that work. New analysis work will have to be carried out here. I look forward to the Swedish Tax Agency's final report, which will be published in October. It will look more closely at how control activities can be carried out, so as to ensure that there is the right tax collection in these activities.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-56	Mr President, I would like to I was one of those who hung on the lock when the Tax Agency released the report in March, so I'm also looking forward to October. Of course, there have always been services that you trade. But the question is whether people really know that they should be taxed according to the rules. In Sweden, the services provided by private individuals are taxed. It is a matter of tax depending on the amount, the employer's contribution, the declaration for the recipient and, if the sum exceeds 999 SEK onor, the control task for the buyer. However, digitalisation opens up more opportunities for people to help each other in more and more areas. Uberpop as a phenomenon has aroused emotions. In some, feelings are positive when you may see an opportunity to earn a few extra dollars in your spare time or to get a ride home in a cheap way. In others, they are negative, because it is considered that competition is not on equal terms and that quite different requirements are imposed on professional performers than on private individuals. Following a few convictions, Uber has, as I have said, discontinued his Uberpop service, which was directed at individuals who offer carpooling to other individuals for payment. An interesting situation therefore arises when a state institution, the Swedish Post and Telecommunications Board, finances the development of an app for carpooling. Sure, the target group is the parents of children in sports clubs, but it is all about the same thing: private individuals drive other private individuals for less money. The Minister for Finance must also see the irony in this. It also clearly demonstrates the problem of border drawing. What can be done? As I said, the Tax Agency returns with a final report on the collaborative economy. Various proposals have been launched to facilitate the collaborative economy, such as the proposal put forward by the Muf and Green Youth and by the companies Baghitch and Flexidrift e, which means that the first SEK 20 000 earned will be tax-free and a reduced regulatory burden. An alternative could be to spin on the popular RUT and ROT deduction concept and extend it with additional concepts, such as RÄT, for However, the question remains as to whether it is enough to focus on the collaborative economy, because there is still a problem of borderline problems when it comes to helping or exchanging services rather than making money in a market and how to get rid of the regulatory burden. I admit that I am also curious about how the Minister for Finance would react if the construction or cleaning industry were to make the same demands on equal terms as the taxi industry has done. I have not heard of that being the case, perhaps because it is so common that we help each other in these areas in Sweden. Perhaps the question is more hypothetical in nature. However, depending on how we increase the regulatory and regulatory framework for professionals in these areas, in parallel with the increasing opportunities to help each other in private or to exchange services with each other, it may be wise to have at least thought about it. Googling is taught that barter is relatively common in several other countries, often with their own local currencies. This is not the case in Sweden, although there are so-called exchange rings. The reason for this is said to be precisely our tax rules. If the government is as positive to the collaborative economy as it says – and I do not doubt – why does it not take all kinds of private services into account and also look at the services that are exchanged?
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-65	Mr President, I would like to I believe there is great potential in the collaborative economy, for a number of reasons. Of course, I think it is a lot about us being able to use our existing resources more efficiently. In this way, there is a clear green perspective in the collaborative economy. Sharing cars in car pools is one way to achieve this. There are also other ways, for example, of sharing cars or using existing homes more efficiently than today. That's very positive. The tax rules are generally clear. This has also been achieved by the Swedish Tax Agency's interim report. On the other hand, control activities may become more difficult if there are a lot of transactions between private individuals. We know from the past that in transactions between private individuals, the risk of tax errors increases. Another aspect is that it may not always be clear to those who buy or sell services or share their goods what rules really apply. It is of course important here that we can work to clarify the rules for those who use the collaborative economy in different ways. On the other hand, I may not share Anette Åkesson's view that the way forward is to reduce or abolish the tax in parts of the collaborative economy. But there is also a clear difference between the Moderates and the government parties. We in the government parties stand up because we think it is important that we can finance our common welfare, but we know that the Moderates and Anette Åkesson are more interested in continuing to move forward with large and extensive tax cuts.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-69	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the Moderates are interested in reducing taxes, but it is in order to obtain additional resources for welfare. It has been shown that they increase when taxes are reduced. The Minister of Finance's response is still largely related to the collaborative economy. But that wasn't really the focus of the interpellation. These are exciting times with new technologies that open up completely new opportunities. As legislators, we will create good conditions for development and competition, while at the same time people and companies may need protection against unhealthy working conditions. It is also about consumers and about being able to compete on equal terms. But we cannot ignore the problem of border drawing. And the tax system is one of the areas concerned. Investigations and analyses are carried out by the Swedish Tax Agency regarding the sharing economy. However, exchanges of services between private individuals, or when people help each other, are certainly not yet the subject of an investigation into how we might need to change the regulatory framework. The exchange of services is an area where new technologies can make it easier to match. It is therefore only a matter of time before the exchange of services in Sweden could grow in scope. This should be considered as positive as the collaborative economy, as there are the same opportunities for sharing resources. The tax area concerns the payment of taxes but also control data and declarations. It is likely that ways will have to be found to draw new limits in terms of the amount of tax to be paid, but it is also about how bureaucracy can be limited. It may affect tax revenues, but it can also facilitate, not only for those who exploit the benefits of digitalisation. With this, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-75	Mr President, I would like to I share Anette Åkesson's view that we may need to look at and analyse further what sharing economy can mean in this regard. That mindset and the platforms that may arise from the new technology, which facilitates the exchange of services, and how this could grow is certainly something that one can analyse more closely than what the Tax Agency has done in its interim report. I'll take that as an input from this interpellation debate. It has been a useful Friday morning in the Riksdag. I'm sure you can think about it more. There is something important to say about the collaborative economy and now that new digital platforms are being created to make more efficient use of existing resources – it may also come to enable us to switch services with each other in a more efficient way than we do today. It gives digital prints. As long as you have digital platforms, it also gives impressions digitally. This means that tax authorities in Sweden and in other countries have more opportunity to check that taxes are paid in as they should than when it is pure exchanges that do not pass any kind of digital platform. It will be interesting to see what the Swedish Tax Agency will come up with in this regard. This applies both if you share houses, cars or other things and if you switch services. There's the digital prints. I would like to thank Anette Åkesson for an interesting interpellation. This is an important debate to take, so that we get a closer analysis and know what measures need to be taken to ensure that we have good revenue even when the economy develops in this way. And that, of course, gives room for new entrepreneurs and new entrepreneurs, which I am the first to welcome.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-80	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Sundin has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to investigate hyperloop as a possible form of communication in Sweden. Let me begin by saying that I welcome new technologies aimed at creating more efficient means of transport. The Government works with research and innovation to ensure that Sweden is a leading research nation, where research and innovation are conducted with high quality and contribute to society's development and the competitiveness of the business sector. The Government works in collaboration with academia, authorities and industry with research and innovations in the field of transport. Examples of such collaboration are the development of self-driving cars and demonstration of electric roads for reduced environmental and climate impact. When it comes to hyperloops, the technology, as Mathias Sundin says, is young and much can be changed. At present, therefore, I have no intention of initiating any investigation into hyperloop in Sweden. However, the government is following with interest the development of this new technology.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-84	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. This is precisely about a new transport and communication technology – hyperloop. The idea of it was born in the United States out of frustration over high-speed trains. It was thought to cost a lot, and the money did not provide much speed. We recognize some of that debate here in Sweden too. Then Elon Elon made a suggestion about this which he came to call hyperloop. He usually says a little jokingly that it's a mix of pipe mail, an air hockey table and a Concorde, all in one. It is wagons, or pods as it is called, that are transported in pipes. The pipe has almost a vacuum, which means that the air resistance is very low, and you can operate these wagons very efficiently and very quickly with electric drive. You're supposed to get up at speeds of over 1,000 kilometers per hour. The initial estimates are that the cost is in any case considerably lower than for high-speed trains, but of course we know what is going on with all the infrastructure projects, and the Minister of Infrastructure probably knows more than anyone else that it is willing to go. There is no guarantee of how low the costs are, but it is still a very interesting technology that has been developed. At these speeds, it would take the Minister 30 minutes to go home to Gothenburg from Stockholm. Going down to Malmö from here would take about 40 minutes, and from here up to Luleå would take an hour. It is nothing that would even come close to high-speed trains, although we will of course need more tracks in Sweden. From my description, it may just sound like a fun idea that some elf in California has figured out. But it's more serious than that. The first proposal was developed by engineers at Spacex and electric car manufacturer Tesla. The Obama administration has become very interested in this and put a research team to look at the basic calculations: Can this in theory work? The Minister for Infrastructure in the United States is following this closely. The Slovak Government has initiated a project on this. Here at KTH in Sweden, there is an interest as well as at MIT in the USA, and a variety of research groups around the world are now working to refine and develop this reform. Just a few days ago, the first live test of the Nevada technology was carried out. What I think is that the government could play an active role in it. Of course, we cannot and should not make any decisions about building something like this. It would be very unserious in this situation when the technology is so young. However, we can contribute to the development of research. If you don't even want to spend any money on it, you can ask the Finnish Transport Administration to look at the technology. There are also projects here in Sweden, Åland and Finland to build a hyperloop between the countries, serious projects where some money is collected. The Swedish state could play a role in driving this development. We're not going to lock ourselves up at it in any way, but at least that's what we're going to do. The answer from the Government is to some extent positive, but still negative, at the very heart of the matter. Why is that?
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-92	Mr President, I would like to As Mathias Sundin says, this is a very new technology, and it is still unclear whether it can be realised. I would also possibly like to raise some scepticism about how it would affect, for example, the landscape. Of course, building costs if you had this technology underground would be very, very high. All of this, of course, is what you get to look at when the technology becomes more developed and you can make more realistic and substantiated analyses of what it could mean. There is a rather intensive research on this new technology, and as I said in my answer, the government intends to follow it. It is also exciting if, for example, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, other universities or research institutes of various kinds in Sweden have an interest and are looking for collaborations on this. There is, of course, a great freedom within the framework that universities and colleges have in Sweden to participate in this type of cooperation project if this happens. However, at this stage the government has no plans to add an assignment to, for example, Trafikverket for the simple reason that we believe that this technology is a little too immature for such a concrete mission to prepare or enter into any concrete discussion on the part of Trafikverket. If you are going to link something a little bit to what is in the planning in Sweden, the work that is going on around Sweden's negotiations and the new high-speed railway expansion here, you can probably say that this new technology does not really solve the challenges that high-speed rail between our three major cities would solve, for the simple reason that there has been chosen not to build a completely separate high-speed network. Sweden probably has too low population density to be able to bear the investment costs of a runway that can only be operated by high-speed trains and also has a very strong focus on end-point traffic. Part of the function of what is now planned, or that is being investigated, is to provide capacity also in order to be able to divert traffic when errors occur in existing infrastructure. The idea is also to be able to develop intra-regional traffic, where rapid but regional trains can operate mainly in the vicinity of the end points. Of course, such functions would not be included in this kind of technology, but would be a completely different function from that which we are now planning for. It is therefore not enough just to look at the cost, but also to look at the benefits of certain technologies. At this very stage, however, I would consider that in the process we are in relation to high-speed railways in Sweden, this technology might not respond to all the needs of the Swedish rail network.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-99	Mr President, I would like to I think it's important that you really lift your eyes when you think about this technology. It is clear that it would not fit right into our current transport system so that you just jacket it somewhere, but it is a new way of transporting using new technology to tie a country together. One can imagine how quickly one could progress down to the continent. Infrastructure systems in a nation are, of course, something extremely complex. But that's why it's important to raise your eyes sometimes and see what's on the horizon – or not even so far away – in order not to lock up in the old system all the way. With a new technology, there are of course a variety of problems and challenges you need to solve in terms of safety and everything possible, including how it affects the landscape. But we know that trains today have a huge impact on the landscape and cities. Where trains go, there is often some form of line or wall, visible or invisible, through a city. This connects people with fast transport but can also divide in this way. The idea here is that you should have it on pylons so that it does not have as much impact on the landscape on the ground itself, but you can also have it in tunnels or underground in some other way. As I said earlier, I'm not suggesting in any way that the government go into this and bet the iron. I completely understand that you don't want that. But when such developments occur, signals are important. You do not have to pump a lot of money into this, but it is important that you take it seriously and contribute to development. That doesn't mean you're locking yourself in that this is supposed to be the way we're building in five ten years' time, but you're contributing to development. The U.S. government is perfectly capable of this. You contribute to development; you are not locked up at this in any way. The Slovak Government is doing the same. Now we see that it pops up a variety of initiatives. A lot of money is being pumped in – one of these companies just received three quarters of a billion dollars for the development of this technology. For those who invest in this kind of technology and research, signals are of course important – what does the government say about this? Are you negative or positive? Is this being taken on board? Is there any possibility that something like this will be built? Of course, it affects their investment decisions. N is it about the project Sweden – Åland – Finland I have no idea how realistic it is or whether there will be something of it, but positive signals allow you to take it further. Now they have given a mission to KPMG to do an idea study on this. I think the first ideas will be presented in Almedalen. It's great that the government doesn't dismiss this completely, but I think you can have a more active role in development than just watching. Actually, it doesn't take much. This is one of many future issues where the government can push forward. I hope the future doesn't end now just because the minister of the future got fired.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-108	Mr President, I would like to The future is still very much present. Now there are also a number of very interesting and exciting reports that look a little further ahead in the future than we normally handle within the Government Office. It feels like a good support in the further work. I would like to say that we have a generally very positive attitude towards new technologies. We know from experience and see in the outside world that new technology can have a strong impact on social development. In times of leaps in development, it has often been a technical achievement that has reached many people, thereby transforming society as a whole. In the transport sector in particular, I would say that we are in such a mining period right now. Many new technologies are being developed at about the same time. The old truths about the petrol-powered car that everyone has standing in their garage or possibly on the street outside as the prevailing way of transport, that era, is turning into something else thanks to new technology but also new patterns of behaviour and completely new demands from society. That is why I think it is important that we acknowledge all sorts of new technological achievements and do not lock ourselves in that this particular technology will be used in the future. I also think it is unfortunate if we take political decisions on which technical solutions or technology development projects to invest in. I believe that we should clearly safeguard the freedom and freedom of research to take on the various research projects that are of interest to us. Should we make political decisions and say that this technology should be looked at more closely but not that one, then I think we are squabbling rather than encouraging research into various new technological solutions. That is not to say that we should not be involved in developments. The government currently has no intention of taking any concrete initiatives on this particular technical solution, but will follow with great interest both this development and developments in other areas of transport and much more.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-113	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that politics should not put this technology before another and so on. That's not what I'm suggesting. What I suggest is that you have a positive attitude to this, that you give, for example, the Swedish Transport Administration – there may be someone more appropriate – to look at this technology to see how it could be used in Sweden. That doesn't mean you should build it. As I said, it is a young technology; we do not know where it goes. But what has happened now, and it is a sign in time, is that h yperloop has become a global project that thousands of people in many different countries are helping to develop. Governments and states must not therefore be the driving force that represents the majority of the job here. It's happening anyway. But in order for people to want to contribute to and see opportunities in this and for money to be invested – it still takes a lot – governments and states are important because they are the ones who will then build this. There may be some private funding, but this type of heavy investment in infrastructure accounts for states. I think you say so many right things, Anna Johansson. It's just the action that's missing. I think we are in the middle of a shift in self-driving cars, much cheaper access to space and much more in communications and transport around our world. Then the government and you, as a minister, have the opportunity to act on this development – not control and direct it but push it forward and be a positive factor. You say the right things, but act too!
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-117	Mr President, I would like to To put a very specific task at Trafikverket to be involved in researching or developing this particular technology is just such a detailed control that I hear we agree that we should not have. On 1 June, the Prime Minister will present a cooperation programme in the transport sector, and this autumn we will present a research policy proposal in the Riksdag. Both have a strong focus on how research and innovation can contribute to societal benefit and how the state through active participation with resources for research projects, collaborative platforms and so on can be a driving force in allowing those who have research results and are technical experts to interact between different research areas – technology but also behavioural science and urban planning issues – to find the wisest solutions for the future. There is enormous potential in this, and for the ambitions of the government to reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, to reach the climate targets and to develop Sweden into an equal society in which you can work and live in all parts of the country, this type of research is extremely important. I therefore believe that we will also be able to find each other in the continuing work.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-120	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Sundin has asked me what I and the government are doing to ensure that Sweden is fast to implement PSD2. First of all, I would like to point out that I agree with Mathias Sundin's analysis that the emerging fintech sector is important. That is why I have visited and had dialogue with stakeholders in the industry. I myself led a delegation of fintech companies to Hong Kong at the beginning of the year, with the aim of promoting Swedish innovative companies' growth. Last year, we commissioned Finansinspektionen to investigate how companies that act in the field of crowdfunding should be regulated, in order to create long-term rules of play. The PSD2 or revised Payment Services Directive, as it is also known, was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 25 November 2015 and will be implemented and applied from 13 January 2018. In order to ensure the rapid and correct implementation of the PSD2, the Government decided already on 1 April 2015, i.e. before the adoption of the Directive, to invite a special investigator to propose, among other things, the legislative amendments required by Swedish law to implement the Directive. The investigation, which adopted the name of the 2015 payment services inquiry, shall report its mandate by 30 June 2016 at the latest. The report of the inquiry will be referred in the usual order, after which preparation within the Ministry of Finance and other relevant departments will take place. In view of the fact that the provisions implementing the Directive are not to be applied until 13 January 2018, the legislation cannot enter into force earlier than that.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-123	Mr President, I would like to Sweden, not least concentrated around Stockholm, is extremely successful in what they call fintech, financial engineering, tech companies in the financial field, startups. Although you know many of the companies, you are almost a little surprised by how good Sweden has delivered in recent years. Over the past five years, Sweden has received 18% of the investments that have taken place in this area throughout Europe. What percentage of the population do we have – some percentage? We perform extremely well. The number of employees is also increasing rapidly: plus 44% between 2010 and 2013. I suppose it has accelerated even in the last two years, although I do not have any figures on it. Such a sign applies to one of the payment companies, Klarna. According to a compilation for last year Linkedin made of the number of new positions in Stockholm, they were on the top-ten list together with companies such as H&M and that type of traditional large Swedish companies, so the fintech companies are now also coming up in terms of employees and not only in terms of investments and values. We have a lot of such companies. I could use my full speaking time to list them. Klarna is one of these who has gone very well. Trustly is another, and Qapital and Tink are another pair. In particular, the two I mentioned last time are quite affected by the Payment Services Directive. It's a big directive. These services enable you as a private person to better control your finances. You use the service to log in to your bank or collect information from your own bank account and get compilations of how much you spend on petrol, food, restaurant visits and so on. You can get a wake-up call when you look at these figures or. Access to this information is something that banks often don't enjoy at all that any third party gets. Although it is their customer who says that it is perfectly acceptable for that information to be read, the banks are often quite negative to this. The Bankers' Association has had a number of different statements against it. It is good that there is an investigator and that the proposals for 2018 are being prepared. But there is a more urgent issue in this. In the period up to 2018, the Directive does not require banks to be able to impede this access. The companies have been in contact with Finansinspektionen about this. Finansinspektionen says that if any bank should obstruct access, they do not have tools or mandates to stop this, provide access or act in that situation. They need some kind of signal, some kind of directive or something from the government in order to be able to act on the matter. Most of this will be introduced in 2018. But it is precisely in this section that we should ensure that access already exists today. Is the Government aware of this question? If so, what have you done?
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-131	Mr President, I would like to I think that the development we see in the fintech sector is very exciting and good for society from many points of view. Of course it is good for Stockholm and Sweden. We recruit a lot of competent people here and get an exuberant economy. It also contributes to the economic development of Sweden and puts Stockholm and Sweden on the world map when it comes to digitalisation and to be innovative and come up with new solutions. But it is also good for us consumers. It makes our everyday life easier. We will have access to services that we could not have obtained if we had gone in old ruts and only used old services. We can now make secure and secure payments online, no matter where in the world it is. We can feel confident that our account numbers are not misused, that problems are not created in other parts. We see how small traders have access to digital payments through new solutions that would not otherwise have been available. In many ways, this technology makes our everyday life and world better. That is why the government is trying in every way to encourage and create better conditions for this. That is why I think it is important that we have a dialogue with the actors, which we have, and I am pleased about that. But we are also trying to ensure that you get an even easier journey by being able to distribute your services and products worldwide. That is why we initiated a delegation of fintech companies to Hong Kong, and it was very successful. There were economic contacts, and it was noticed that there was a great deal of interest in the solutions to a global arena. It is also good that this provides a diversified market, where there are several players to turn to and there is a less concentration on the traditional, large banks, which is good for the consumer, because it simply gives more choice. Of course, we must ensure that legislation and regulations are in line with digital developments and adapted to the new players. It should not be too high thresholds to enter a new market, but there should be opportunities. There PSD2 is an important step forward. I am very pleased that the EU can now agree on the common rules. At the same time, it is important that countries do this in a coordinated manner, that they do not have completely different timetables. For example, we want cross-border trade to increase and cross-border financial services to be used. This will of course create problems if some countries introduce PSD2 while others remain in the old regulatory framework, PSD1. We have agreed at European level that we will implement the legislation at the same time on 13 January 2018. In Sweden, we have been proactive in setting up an investigation, even before the directive was completed. So to the management of the regulations until 2018. The investigation will come in the near future. It's only a few weeks away. There will also be a great deal of clarity about what the changes in the rules will look like. It also provides greater opportunities for dialogue with stakeholders in the industry, both with those who are now third-party payment service providers, such as new entrants to the market, but also with the existing ones, such as banks. It also provides opportunities to conduct a dialogue with the authority, such as Finansinspektionen, and hear how they view the proposals and look at the time that is now up to 2018. When the investigation presents its proposals, the situation will become clearer, and we will have a better basis for considering how we can move forward in the near future but also how we can ensure that the regulatory framework is adapted so that we enable and create better conditions for new technical and mental solutions in the financial market. I think we have only seen the beginning there and will see many exciting solutions that will be developed in the future. I'm very happy to be able to do what I can to make it easier.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-143	Mr President, I would like to When changes like this occur in large parts of our society, linked to digitalisation, it is easy for those who are already established to resist. You might think that they should have learned from all the rounds in history, from Spinning Jenny and onwards, where you can see that it is perhaps better to adapt quickly. However, I have some hope for the Swedish banking system. Recently, I think that this has been taken seriously. It has started to invest quite a lot in this type of new company. But I think you have a very long journey. There is a lot of technology in the banking world that is very old. It is difficult to find programmers, because this was something that was programmed in the 80s. It is therefore important that these new players are not excluded from this. From the Bankers' Association, at least according to the media, there have been many very negative signals about, among other things, this directive, PSD2. In some article, this Directive has been treated as phishing. That is, to say the least, a rather bizarre comparison. I understand that you don't think it's super fun that other actors can work on this so that you are competitively exposed. But that is life in a market economy. Then you have to adapt. We now have an important period until January 2018 to ensure that Finansinspektionen, if there are any banks that want to put a stop to these new companies and if it is unclear who should act against this, has the opportunity to act. Finansinspektionen says they don't really have a mandate to go in. This must be made clear. I hope it will happen quickly when the investigation comes and that you and the government will get to grips with this matter quickly. These companies that grow up are, of course, fragile. They do not have the resources that banks have. They can't wait two years to get more customers. They are always close to not being able to raise more capital, not getting more money and not being able to continue their business, even if they had a very positive growth and many of them work well. Then it is very important to get support from the legislator, of course, but also from the government, so that they have this support. It is not a question of benefiting these companies in particular, but of everyone having to comply with the rules – the banks and these new companies. As soon as this investigation is presented – there is not much time left – I hope you will address this specific issue and ensure that Finansinspektionen is given a clear mandate to act on this issue.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-149	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that Sweden is far ahead when it comes to taking in new technology and making use of it. We see this not least in the financial market, where Sweden is actually unique globally. We have come much further than many other countries in terms of the digitisation of our economy. We have a big technology impact. We are a people of early adopters, as is usually said, that is, we are quick to embrace new technical solutions and start using them in our everyday lives. It is clear that it also opens up new technological solutions and new players in these markets. It has even gone so fast that cash management is beginning to decline at such a rate that it will be difficult to supply the whole country with cash in the way that many operators would like. Now, rather, we have the problem of ensuring that people can use cash in their daily lives. It is clear that this is something that we need to try to resolve in collaboration between the industry and politics. We must also understand that some people find it difficult to learn new technical solutions. There may simply be obstacles that make it difficult for them to do so. We must also respect that. It is important to stress that this development is fundamentally very positive. It creates completely new opportunities for us as consumers. I can say that I personally cannot see how my everyday life would have gone together if I had not had the opportunity to use mobile phones and computers to manage my finances. I think many people recognize themselves in this situation. I hope that Sweden will continue to be at the forefront. We shall be at the forefront of this. I am convinced that digitalisation will reshape our entire society at a global level. And those at the forefront of developing new products and services are also those who will gain the greatest benefits from this development. I am very pleased that we have incredibly prominent Swedish companies that really lead technological development and that are also able to implement it in practice and gain market shares in a global arena. Large players are already starting to produce and sell their services on a world market. From the government's side, we really want to do everything we can to make it even easier to take the step from innovation to launching in a Swedish market and then take the step fully and become a global player. I hope that there is an interest not only in politics but also in other market players and that one looks with curiosity at this development. I would like this to be seen as an opportunity for collaboration rather than trying to protect its sometimes outdated market models and obsolete solutions. I think it is better to welcome new technical solutions and try to see how we can work together to create better conditions for consumers, for example. I have also made that clear when I have had talks with the actors. We have a close dialogue with the authorities responsible for the financial market, including Finansinspektionen, and I have just pointed out that we should not unnecessarily obstruct new and digital solutions. It is important that we actually ensure that we create regulations and systems that make it possible to find new technical and business solutions to old problems. This is therefore an issue on which we have already been very committed and which we will continue to engage. We have also looked at the new aspects that are about to come in quite a lot. In this discussion we have talked a little bit about the sharing economy and that it is a sector that is growing, including in the financial markets. In this regard, we have set up an investigation that works throughout this year and until next year with precisely the sharing economy and what conditions are needed for its development. Do we need to review the regulatory framework and legislation to make use of sharing services rather than owning, for example? It will also affect the financial sector. We also have an interesting development in Europe with the Capital Markets Union, which seeks to break down barriers between countries and seeks to have common regulations. I also believe that this is a very good prerequisite for creating greater opportunities for Swedish operators to export their services.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-159	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for this and I agree that we have a huge opportunity here, not just because, as Per Bolund says, the world is now being transformed in terms of digitalisation, but because in so many different areas – business areas and others – we are very far ahead. We have many successful companies in the music field, in fintech and other types of startups in the gaming world, to list a few. Some of them have the opportunity to become the new really big companies, as well as those we know for 100 years in this country. These new companies may have the opportunity to become even bigger because they may become completely global in quite a short time. They become platforms that dominate an industry all over the world. These opportunities are staggering when you think of them. As I said, we have a very good chance. Then it is very important that we, from politics and, of course, from industry and from other parts of society, support this development without favouring any particular party or driving development in any particular direction. But we must, not least, remove obstacles when they arise. It can be about the apps and services that give private individuals access to their banking data in a good and educational way, so that they can see how much they have for Fridays. If the actors involved are hindered by the incumbents, they may stumble in the coming years. Competitors are present in other parts of the world, for example in London, which in this particular area is our main competitor here in Europe. David Cameron toils in these companies and benefits his own in different ways. This is because the government really stands up here and gives positive signals. I hope to see action in the future too.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-162	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mathias Sundin for the interpellation and commitment to this issue and to this sector. It's welcome. I hope that it is a view that we can share widely in politics that we must try to work together and find common solutions for how we can create better conditions for these companies. Of course, as it often does in the case of new companies, there are many different factors involved. It is about regulations and laws and access to, for example, information in the financial field. We're working on that. It is also about such things as access to capital in order to develop your business. We have heard other actors who have talked about the housing market. That's where we work hard to try to make sure we get more housing, so that it doesn't become a bottleneck. The tax system is also something that we are constantly trying to evaluate to see if we can find new and better solutions that are suitable for these actors. From the government's side, there is no doubt that we see the development that is now going on in Stockholm and in Sweden, where there are an incredible number of new and exciting companies that can really drive Swedish business and the Swedish economy forward, as a great opportunity that we must seize. We're very focused on backing up this business as much as we can. We will create good opportunities as the conditions allow for continuing to lead technological development and deliver these services in a global market. I am focused on both continuing a very close dialogue with the industry – and of course, as always, with the agency so that it is also on the track – and continuing to work internationally to put Stockholm and Sweden on the map. I think that we have a huge opportunity here that is too good to be taken advantage of. We are therefore very much in favour of this sector and of the new innovations and solutions. We see this as a huge and good opportunity for Sweden. As I said, my hope is that we can do so in broad collaboration in the Swedish Parliament.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-166	Mr President, I would like to This is not the first time I have been in this Chamber, but it is the first time in a while. It feels very nice to be back. Roger Hedlund has asked me what reasons lie behind the distribution of funds for building housing for newly arrived residents and for the rest of the Swedish people, due to the government's contribution in 2016 of SEK 1.85 billion in state aid to the municipalities for increased housing construction and thereby making another effort to support the construction. First of all, let me say that we in Sweden do not have a system that allows construction for a certain group of people in the al männa housing stock. The fact that 60% of the aid is intended solely for the construction of newcomers' homes is therefore a misconception. The aid is granted to all dwellings started during a twelve-month period, and the amount of aid granted to each municipality thus depends on the number of dwellings started during this period. Some municipalities receive and have received a large number of new arrivals, which means a further increase in pressure on the housing market and of course increased costs for municipalities – at least initially. Therefore, the aid is constructed in two parts. The dwellings started during the period, which correspond to the housing needs of the new arrivals, receive support from the pot that accounts for 60 per cent of the total. The remaining dwellings receive support from the second pot, which is 40%. The idea is that the support should be slightly higher per housing unit if it is taken out of the 60% pot. However, this does not mean that 60% of the aid goes to housing intended for new arrivals. It will not be checked who lives in the homes, but the support can be seen as compensation for the municipalities facing increased challenges as there is a great need for housing – a need that has increased further as many new arrivals have arrived in Sweden.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-171	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the answer you are delivering, Peter Eriksson, and welcome to Parliament as new Minister of Housing! My question you have answered to some extent, I think. Let me repeat that answer by the government: those homes that meet the housing needs of new arrivals receive support from the pot that accounts for 60% of the total. So there is talk of the housing that corresponds to the housing needs of the new arrivals in these municipalities, and it cannot be interpreted in so many other ways than that the focus is on ensuring that new arrivals have an opportunity for housing. It is these municipalities that are the first to be given priority. Take, for example, Gävleborg County, which is the county I myself come from and represent. We have received the largest share of new arrivals to Sweden per capita. We also have the highest unemployment rate. Is it on the government's part the right priority in housing policy that this county should primarily receive the money? That is something that I question. Of course, the need is greatest in the metropolitan regions, where there is a possibility of getting a job. Students find it difficult to study because there is no housing in the metropolitan regions where many universities are located. Companies have problems recruiting. Young people who want to move away from home and families who need more housing – it is those people, in the metropolitan regions, that we think that one should first of all focus on housing policy. It is about those people, not only Swedes who are currently in need of housing to be able to take a job but also new arrivals, being able to get a job. Instead, according to the Government, we should give priority to the municipalities that receive the most – perhaps because there are vacant dwellings there – being the ones that will receive the support in the first place and to the greatest extent. It's a housing policy The Swedish Democrats are questioning. When the government finally comes up with some kind of policy in the residential area, the answer is therefore that 60% of the subsidised housing support for construction should primarily go to the municipalities that have received new arrivals, to meet the needs of the new arrivals. You cannot interpret it in any other way when you read the letter the government has presented.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-176	Mr President, I would like to I too would like to take this opportunity to welcome Peter Eriksson here as a new Minister for Housing and also a party colleague to me. It's gonna be exciting. Sweden is facing one of the biggest challenges we have had in a very long time. We have a large housing shortage among almost all categories. We have 300 000 young people outside the housing market, we have many older people who want to move to an apartment and we have families with children who want to move into terraced houses. I am pleased to note that the Government has taken the challenge seriously. I like challenges, and I hope that Peter Eriksson will do it so that we can work on this together. The government has put forward proposals for investment aid. We spend money on energy renovation and renovation of the existing housing stock. We spend money on older people's housing so that the elderly have the opportunity to move to homes they want. We spend money on land remediation to enable additional land for new homes. Then we come to what the interpellier has chosen to ask about, namely the municipal bonus. All municipalities have a legislative responsibility called housing responsibility. The municipalities must live up to housing responsibility, and this means that a municipality should enable housing for those who want to live in the municipality. With the great challenge facing Sweden, many municipalities have also received an even greater challenge, and municipalities that are already growing – and want to grow – need more support. That is how I have seen that the government has chosen to make the priority. The first question I intend to ask Peter Eriksson is whether he does not also think that the municipalities are absolutely entitled to support. When they have a housing responsibility that the state has chosen to impose on them, should they not also be entitled to state aid as we now face the great challenge we are to face together?
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-181	Mr President, I would like to I thank both Roger and Emma. I have to say, I don't think you should take this job if you're afraid of challenges. That poses a lot of challenges. Sweden has great challenges in the residential area, and I go in with the intention that we will cope with them. But I also think that different actors in Sweden, both in parliament and government as well as in business and in municipalities, need to pull in the same direction. I would also like the Swedish Democrats to try to pull in the same direction as the rest of us in this regard. I may not think Roger has a good approach if he is opposed to the newcomers in Gävleborg getting good support to get a place to live. I think it is important that Gävleborg, who has taken a great responsibility, also receives support to ensure that the people who are in Gävleborg can live somewhere and have decent housing. That is what we want to contribute from the government. However, it is not the case that the support goes to the municipalities that receive the most new arrivals, but it is they who build the most and have many new arrivals who will receive the support. There's an important difference. This is about support for building more and ensuring that people have housing. That is why it is not in contrast to what applies to people other than new arrivals. It is also a support for young people who need housing. The government's housing policy is now becoming quite extensive, including in the economic field, unlike the previous government.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-186	Mr President, I would like to Thank you so much for your answer, Peter Eriksson! Peter Eriksson says that the Swedish Democrats should pull in the same direction to solve the housing problem in Sweden today. I may think it is a little ironic when the government chooses not to invite the Swedish Democrats to the housing policy talks that are being held with the opposition and the Left Party. How, then, can we contribute to this? Of course, we can hold talks in other arenas, as in this House, but it is well in the housing policy talks that we shall be able to agree across the block. Otherwise, it'll be a little difficult. This pull, Mr President, does not feel quite honest on the part of Peter Eriksson. The question is whether he has the great interest in actually getting things in politics going in the same direction here in Parliament. We can see that the government's commitment to housing policy is basically zero. We have had an extremely high level of immigration for a number of years, but above all in 2015, and the situation that we have today has been created. It takes an average of six years to build a dwelling, nine years in the metropolitan regions. This is not a quick solution. Then you introduced a law on 1 March that obliges municipalities to accept new arrivals, while municipalities have housing responsibility. You believe that subsidies of SEK 1.85 billion would be some form of support for this. But there is not much support when we talk about quickly finding new homes. Modular housing is perhaps the solution that needs to be found in a situation as acute as in 2015, when we received 162 000 asylum seekers. And we know modular housing isn't cheap. So this is the compensation provided by the government at this point. We have major problems today with the housing shortage. Students are unfortunately forced to give up studies or to choose another direction in order to have an opportunity to study. This is particularly true of those who live in sparsely populated areas and who are unable to enter the big cities for study, while those who already live in the metropolitan regions have the opportunity to live at home and study at the same time. This is something that hits the smaller municipalities in the country that are not able to get their young people to study – students who might very much be able to come back to the smaller municipalities and contribute with the skills that companies need and get the whole of Sweden to live. I can pick up a great many problems caused by immigration. But everything can be summed up by the fact that the government has no foresight in housing policy. The solution is therefore the subsidy of 1.85 billion. It's not a responsible government, I think. I hope that in the future we can begin to look at a more complete form of immigration ban in order to reverse the housing crisis we have in Sweden and to concentrate more on getting the people who have been refused their asylum applications to move home.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-194	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for wanting to take on the challenge we face! It is amazing that so many people choose to come to Sweden and that they actually manage to get all the way here. For many of them it has not been an easy journey. Now, together, we're gonna make sure they get a place to live. The municipal bonus is aimed at those municipalities that want to build permanent housing, which I think is important to emphasise. Peter Eriksson talks about the need for all actors to pull in the same direction. What does the Minister of Housing see he's going to have to do first? What is the first step for us to do even more? The government has done a lot, but we need to do more. That's what the Minister of Housing himself said. What is the first step? What will you do?
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-198	Mr President, I would like to The major and most important step we have to take in the coming weeks and months is, of course, to try to reach an agreement between the government and the opposition on a policy with a common direction in order to achieve more efficient, faster and cheaper construction, so that we can meet this challenge. I think that's fundamental. Of course, the fact that it will be a good result is also very important, but if we do not pull in the same direction, it will be much more difficult. That is basically my view. I and the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry's people in this area are going to do a lot of work in the near future to solve everything that goes, so that we can have a good common direction and get along. I think there are a lot of points also in the policy of the opposition and issues they have raised here that are worth listening to and that we could have included in such a deal. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, I think what Roger is showing here is, unfortunately, a worrying attitude. This explains quite a lot why it is difficult for the Swedish Democrats to participate in these processes. They say: Sure, this is support, but in reality we should invest a lot more. But the money should not go where the great needs are, where the many new arrivals have come and to those who build the most, but they should go to other places. What's the starting point? It must be reasonable and sensible that it is the municipalities that take a great deal of responsibility, both accept many new arrivals and show that they are prepared to invest in building to meet this challenge, to which we are giving the support. Then it is wrong that this is the only aid. It is a wide range of forms of support that the government has rolled out in the budget, and this is one of several. But I think it's not the money that matters. What is crucial is whether the municipalities and the state want to pull in the direction of ensuring that people have a place to live, have houses, have a roof over their heads and a decent way to live. That is what this is all about.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-203	Mr President, I would like to I think this was your first debate as Minister of State in Parliament's Chamber, Peter Eriksson. If this is what you, the new Minister of Housing, are presenting as solutions to the housing crisis in Sweden, then I am really worried about the situation. You do not say a single word about the lack of foresight, not a single word about the fact that we may need a break in immigration in order to get the housing situation right and prevent the collapse that the welfare system may be subjected to. We also know that not all the people who have come to Sweden have yet entered the unemployment statistics. It takes about two or three years before you get into it, so it will look much worse in the future. So this is the solution that the government has. It worries me. There will be extremely high costs for municipalities in the future for increased support and housing construction. And what does the government deliver? Well, through the Left Party they managed to process 10 billion crowns. But what does it cover? It is a one-off sum that does not even cover the costs of immigration policy for the municipalities today. In the modular house model, for example, it is a cost of SEK 12 – 19 billion, depending on the calculation you choose to make, to meet only the needs of the new mandatory law to receive new arrivals. That's an extremely high amount. If we are then to repeal the EBO Act, even more new housing will be required, and the costs will be even higher. In this respect, the government has not allocated enough to compensate.
i-a3ee3dfda8e73a21-208	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Swedish Democrats are backing from what Roger Hedlund said about the support of 1.8 billion being the only one. Now it emerges that we also have general support of 10 billion, and that is a fairly large-scale investment in the state budget. In addition to these 10 billion for municipalities, there are a number of other support for building housing. I agree that it will be a challenge for us to cope with this. However, great efforts have also been made to enable us to expand and create resources to deal with the growing number of new arrivals. In this area too, major decisions have generally been taken by the government. The argument that nothing has been done is not in line with reality. The government has made major, important decisions and has also shown that it has brought about changes in reality.
