i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-10	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Legal Affairs' motion for a resolution on issues relating to young offenders. The report contains many good motions from the Moderates and from all over the Alliance. I support all reservations with which we Moderates are involved, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 8 and 9. Most heavy criminals have started their criminal career when they were young – very many even before they were 15 years old. I have spoken to many of these, and they say that they wish that society had reacted sooner and more clearly so that they had not been caught up in crime. For us Moderates, it is therefore very important that society reacts quickly and forcefully when young people are entering crime. School, social services and the judiciary have a heavy responsibility to cooperate in the case of young people who commit crimes. I should also like to mention here that it is very important to combat violence in close relations. Children living in violence, both those who see a loved one being subjected to violence and those who are themselves, suffer far more often from failed schooling, mental illness, depression, abuse and crime. It is important that the social heritage is broken. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have good proposals to combat juvenile delinquency. I can't bring them all up, but I mention a few. For example, we want social services and the police to hold more concerns when a youth is at risk of falling into crime. We want more preventive work on drug crime among young people, for example through more field assistants on duty outside office hours. We want social intervention groups in more towns and that young people under the age of 15 should also be included in these. We want to improve the quality of closed youth services. We also want more crimes committed by young people under the age of 15 to be investigated. Madam President, I would like The former alliance government implemented several measures to combat juvenile delinquency. In 2010, a number of legislative changes came into force in order to investigate more crimes committed by children under the age of 15. It was also possible to conduct forced drug tests if one suspected that a youth had used drugs. The Crime Prevention Council has assessed the legislative changes, and unfortunately they have not produced the desired results. In the case of minor offences, the proportion of investigations has even decreased. The major crimes are investigated more often, but not always; about 25 percent of the major crimes are not investigated. We believe that all serious crimes should be investigated, as decided by law. So it can be manslaughter, aggravated assault, rape and such, and it is very important that it is investigated – not least with regard to the victims. Investigations initiated by social services have been halved between 2005 and 2012, which is contrary to the legislator's intentions. It is unacceptable that the law should not be complied with, and it is unacceptable that 25% of the serious crimes should not be investigated. Before I entered the Riksdag, I worked as a detective in Gothenburg, and for three years I was an interrogator at the then Youth Division. I met a lot of young people who committed crimes, and many had started their criminal career before they turned 15. Sometimes I asked these young people what had happened on the occasions when they had committed crimes before they were 15 years old, and I would like to quote what several of them said. They told me, "I was at the soss talking a little bit with a sosstant who patted me on the head and said ajabaja, don't do this again. ..................................................... That's what they said. This means that young people did not take this seriously. I'm not saying it was, but that's how the kids put it. It was clear that they did not find it very serious to be in social services and talk. I hope they're wrong, but that's how they understood it anyway. We therefore believe that further action should be taken to investigate more crimes. In this context, it must also be added that it is important to investigate those crimes which are not serious. It's simply because most youths don't start with the serious crimes directly; they start with minor crimes, and it gets rougher and coarser. The earlier you investigate and the earlier the society indicates that it is wrong, the better it is. Hopefully they'll never get to the serious crimes. The committee's answer to the motion that more should be investigated is that it assumes that the government will follow the question and take action if necessary. But the question is not, in fact, whether it is necessary. It's necessary! 25 percent of the serious crimes are not investigated, and the law says that all serious crimes should be investigated. So the question is not whether it is necessary. It is necessary, and I wonder what action the government intends to take. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about the so-called penalty rebate for young people. A youth between 18 and 21 years of age who is convicted of a crime receives a lesser penalty than he or she would have had if he or she were over 21. An 18-year-old gets about 50 percent discount compared to what he would have received if he was over 21 years old. Penalty is a sliding scale, so you get full criminality when you turn 21. This age limit has persisted since the age of 21, but it is over 40 years since the age of majority was reduced from 21 years to 18 years. Much has happened during that time, not least when you think of the gross gang crime. Unfortunately, younger and younger people have started committing serious crimes there. In fact, the penalty discount may also be a disadvantage. Because sometimes criminals persuade younger people to commit crimes, because if there is a risk of getting caught, they know that the younger ones are being punished more lightly. Last week, some of us from the Justice Committee visited the police in Gothenburg and were informed about the serious gang crime. During 2013, there were 56 shootings in Gothenburg, i.e. more than one a week. There were eight dead and 31 injured in a year. Many of them have started their criminal career before they were 15 years old, and I asked about how old the gang criminals are. It is clear that there were no statistics, but it was estimated that in any case most of the gang crime in the case of shootings is somewhere between 18 and 35 years old. This means that many in the age range 18 - 21 have committed serious crimes, time after time. They are therefore more or less professional. That is why we Moderates believe that it is wrong for myndiga people to be given a general reduction in the penalty. We believe that the births of young people aged 18 to 21 should in principle be the same as those of adults. Therefore, the government should review and, if possible, abolish the penalty rebate for offenders between the ages of 18 and 21. The committee's response to the motion is that the government prepares new sanctions, but nothing is said about when these proposals will be presented. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we will not be able to support our proposal here today. However, we believe that this is wrong and we intend to come back again.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-26	Madam President, I would like If I were to offer you Members sitting in this House an offer to buy a brand new car from me, and to buy it for half the market value, is it an offer that makes you more or less motivated to buy a car? Perhaps even one environmental party feels motivated to buy a car and make a clip. Such an offer of products and goods is called a discount in the marketplace. Another thing that there is up to 50 percent off in Sweden is murder, i.e. a penalty discount for the person who performs the murder. But you have to take the opportunity to murder someone while you are between 18 and 21 years old because the penalty discount applies only to offenders between 18 and 21 years of age. That is what the law simply looks like, and that is something that all parties here think is perfectly okay, except the Swedish Democrats. The Moderates have certainly celerated a little since last year and now want the government to review whether they might possibly abolish this penalty discount. But, as I said, it is only the Swedish Democrats who again this year propose that the penalty rebate should be removed for legal perpetrators. It is actually a little strange that no other party has supported the reservation of the Sv erige democrats because before the 2014 elections, all the alliance parties stated that they intended to remove this penalty rebate. But after the elections, only the Swedish Democrats worked to remove it. Almost exactly a year ago, we dealt with this very issue in Parliament. Since it was only the Swedish Democrats who wanted to remove the penalty rebate, I asked the then popularist spokesperson on legal policy issues, Johan Pehrson, why they say that they want to implement one thing before an election and then after an election vote against the same proposal. The answer to the question was not very impressive. And, Madam President, if that is why the People's Party subsequently changed both the legal spokesperson and the party name, I leave it unsaid. But there is clearly a problem of credibility when you do not vote for the proposals that are being asked for the confidence of voters to implement. Unfortunately, I have to say that this is not the only issue in which the Alliance has acted in a similar way. If you want to enjoy something, the Moderates as an individual party, not the Alliance, but the Moderates individually, have gone from removing the penalty rebate in the election movement to post-election writing a special statement on why they are voting against removing the penalty rebate. This year, at least, they agree with a proposal of their own, asking the government to review whether they might possibly remove the penalty rebate. There is still a step forward between the yards for the Moderates, although most of the steps so far have gone backwards. It's actually a little positive, although most of it is negative. We must hope that the Alliance will change tactics next year and be inspired by the Swedish democrats' working method: to say one thing and then, hear and astound, do exactly as they have said. Well, this penalty discount for young adult offenders between the ages of 18 and 21 is likely to last a while longer. And that is a pity, because as in my initial example of buying something for a half-market price, that is exactly how it works in the criminal world. This is exactly how you reason. An adult under the age of 21 can both stress himself into committing serious crimes before the penalty period expires, or you can be pressured by adults around in a criminal environment to commit serious crimes because of their age. One example is the so-called Solvalla murderer, who has today spent 18 years in prison of his 38-year life. When a couple of weeks remained until the Solvalla killer was 21 he decided that the murder had to take place before his birthday in order not to risk a life sentence. He said he'd be prepared to take a time sentence. That's why the murder had to happen before he turned 21. Young adults who are next to start establishing themselves on the labour market or continue to pursue further studies should not be tempted by law to take the opportunity to carry out criminal acts. Then it is better to have a deterrent effect and consistent punishment or to allow the person who still commits a serious crime to spend longer in prison. We still have the most important perspective in this context, and that is the victim perspective, that victims get a proper redress and do not need to see their perpetrators covered with different forms of penalty rebates. If something serves the victim's perspective, it is just proper and consistent punishment and not penalty rebates. As long as that is in itself reason enough to immediately abolish these penalty rebates. Although the Swedish Democrats have clear and concrete proposals in the field of young offenders, we are open to showing our support for other parties' reservations if we feel that they can add something. A couple of such reservations have been supported in this report, one from the Moderates and another from the Christian Democrats. One is about concerns about the conversation that the police are going to have a dialogue with parents whose children have a risk behaviour and end up in crime. The second is about increased cooperation between police and school. It is a form of openness that I think all parties can be better at. I feel that there is still a little too much play in this congregation and far too little workshop. It still avoids voting on proposals from the Swedish Democrats, although in principle it is the same. The purpose of this is, of course, to feel that there is a stigmatisation about supporting the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. Here I think that we can all tighten up a little and try to make sure that good proposals are implemented that there is a majority in Parliament for but where we may have a little different angles of entry and angles of view in terms of design. There we can be better at implementing proposals together between the Swedish Democrats and the Alliance. To conclude, I would just like to mention that we have a reservation on reducing the age of the criminal authorities, and that is nothing new. It is about the fact that in many cases social services are not a sufficient measure for certain young criminals. Sometimes more clear and robust consequences are needed to control the lives of certain young people. It is no stranger than that we are prepared to do just that. I agree with all the reservations that I have mentioned in my speech, but for time winning in this House, I only call for reservation 10. I can inform you that we have a special opinion explaining why we also support the Moderate reservation on something similar.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-42	Madam President, I would like Among the most important things we have to deal with in our committee is the issue of young people who commit crimes. With the right policies, more young people who are going awry in life can change direction and start a quest for a good life in security and without exposing others to crime. With the wrong policies, we risk more young people developing criminal lifestyles to the great detriment of all those who are victims of these people's crime and also of the criminal himself. A life of crime is a life without access to the security that most of us take for granted. The risk of self-inflicted crimes is hugely greater. The risk of ill health is also greater, and the almost infallible consequence of a criminal life is social and economic exclusion. Crime simply pays very rarely. When, about a year and a half ago, I took over as the judicial spokesperson of the Center Party, I started a thought work to try to find out what is precisely the Center Party's ideological view of justice policy. In many other areas, it may be easier to assert just the locality, but for me there is a clear and important difference between the individual perspective and the collective perspective. To see the individual is not to look after oneself and ignore others, but to regard each individual as unique and as one's own, with the right to be viewed as an individual and not as a representative of a group. Madam President, I would like I believe that the development of justice policy through the last century may have been based on the collective perspective to a somewhat greater extent than I, as a centre party and liberal, am comfortable with. One example is how we view the points of order. Who is the legal system for? We talk a lot about the perpetrator and try to analyze the causes of someone becoming a criminal. We put a lot of effort into trying to build away or at least around the factors that lead to it. It is in itself an important job, and it is even more important when it comes to young people who commit crimes. At the same time, however, we must never forget that the person who, in my opinion, is the most important person in all these processes is the victim of crime, i.e. the individual who is exposed or at risk of being subjected to a crime. It is therefore reasonable for more crimes to be investigated, even if the suspect has not reached the age of the criminal authority. No one who is not a criminal is to be sentenced to punishment, but it is still important that the crime to which someone has been subjected is taken seriously. Even if no punishment can be awarded, it is extremely important to clarify what has actually happened, partly in order for the victim to feel seen by society, and partly in order that even less serious crime can be a strong indicator of where a young offenders are going. It is of great importance to the victim, to the perpetrator and to society that early action can be taken. There are a wide range of reservations from the Alliance that focus on this very point, which highlights, among other things, early intervention. I'm behind them all. But for time winning, I only agree to reservation 8 in paragraph 8 for more crimes of persons under 15 years of age to be investigated.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-53	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Justice's report focuses on young offenders and the provisions of the law on young offenders. The committee has touched on everything from social intervention groups to how to improve the quality of closed youth services. Liberals have for many years, individually or together with the Alliance, raised the need for local crime prevention. We have high hopes for the local prevention work, so it is disappointing that the government does not prioritise this resource-wise but mainly through various assignments to Statskontoret, the Crime Prevention Council or the Police Authority. The Liberals in their budget option, which has unfortunately been rejected, have allocated SEK 25 million more than the government to the local crime prevention work. Madam President, I would like We are also closely following the results of the new police organization. It is not the subject of this debate, but parts of it are involved in the report. It concerns the contact between police and school and the importance of local district police. The latter is central to the attacks and access to the environments that unfortunately exist in our country where heavy criminals, such as drug traffickers, bikers and arms dealers, exploit and recruit children under the age of 18 and young adults to commit criminal acts. Recently, in an updated report from the Police Authority, we learned that Sweden has 53 areas that are considered vulnerable. 14 of these are considered to be particularly vulnerable. This means that the police and the authorities do not have full control of the situation and that there are parallel structures. There are threats, blackmail, violence and criminal gangs in parallel structures where no one dares talk about who took your bike or who shot you in the lap. We do not have the courage to testify, nor do we have our rights guaranteed by the rule of law. In this connection, the Liberals recently put a question to the Minister for Home Affairs about the readiness of the government. Unfortunately, the concrete answer I would have wished for from Anders Ygeman did not exist. Instead, he referred to the way in which the work of the Political Authority and attempts at prioritization are to be carried out. The government parties do not recognise the seriousness of the issue and choose not to comply with any of our requests for efforts to increase confidence in the police and for an increase in the ambition of the social groups. That is very regrettable. Neither have we met any of our requests to strengthen the work of local police and district police. Madam President, I would like Another point that the Liberals particularly want to raise in the debate is the importance of more cases being investigated even if the person is under 15 years of age. We have noted in committee that not all of the priority cases relating to the most serious crimes are being investigated, which is not satisfactory and shows that, unfortunately, the enforcement that we did in July 2010 has not yet been fully effective. We have therefore proposed that the committee and the Riksdag should act against the government, but here too the Social Democrats and the Green Party reject our claims. The majority refers to the fact that work is under way in this direction. The representatives of the government parties are welcome to tell me when you come up to the pulpit what measures and decisions are referred to in the report. Do the Social Democrats not think it is a problem that 25% of the most serious crimes are never investigated? As my colleague Ellen Juntti from the Moderates said, neither the gravest crimes nor other crimes are investigated when the person is under 15 years of age. We have been saying in several debates for years that it must have some sort of consequence if you shoplift, snatch a purse from an older lady in the square or whatever it may be. That is why the reinforcements were introduced into the 2010 Act. I therefore support reservation 8 on the investigation of crimes against persons under the age of 15. We have not put forward any sharp proposals on penalties in this report. But the issue is being discussed in our party. In my discussions with researchers, the Bar Association and other actors on prison sentences for young people, difficult questions of principle arise. Are young people of 17, 18 or 19 years in prison for ten years? What kind of person do we get out of prison after ten years? I have been to a number of terrorist conferences where there has been talk of young people being radicalised and at risk of becoming terrorists. Some countries, not Sweden, put ten-year-olds in prison. What future will these ten - year - olds have? Yes, according to existing studies, they will not be less radicalized, but rather the opposite. They come out, get star status and become even more radicalized and dangerous to society. We must avoid this.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-68	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad touched on the penalty rebate, which I mentioned in my speech. In the 2014 election campaign, the People's Party expressed its support for removing the penalty rebate for 18- to 21-year-olds. It also showed support for similar measures proposed in the penalty investigation that came in 2012. In the election campaign you said that it was a concrete problem and a mistake that would be remedied if you got the power. But in Parliament you say that it is a bit problematic to do this because young people can become more criminal if they go to prison. If you do that, you haven't really been honest with the voters in your policy. I must therefore ask Roger Haddad: have you changed your political opinion on the penalty rebates? If you have not, why do you not support the proposal from the Swedish Democrats when it is sharp in Parliament?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-73	Madam President, I would like I have already answered Adam Marttinen's question in my speech. The Liberals have set up a working party on legal policy, which I have the privilege of chairing. We have one more year to work, and one of the issues we raise is penalty rebates and quantity rebates. There are two different aspects to how many sentences you can get as a sanction, how much we can collect on one person and what we can remove. We will also discuss what was included in the 2012 Sanctions Report. Yes, we have opened up to tighten up the system and make it a little more restrictive. Adam Marttinen does not address the issue of young people in general but highlights 18 to 21-year-olds. A major challenge that the Swedish Democrats do not address at all is those under 18 years of age, i.e. 14, 15, 16, or 17 years of age. Shall we judge them? Are they going to be in youth service? What does the Youth Service contain? Is there supposed to be something on paper? Is it supposed to be a visit to the social welfare board? There's a lot of questions coming up. It is not black and white that Swedish democrat Adam Marttinen is trying to make it sound like. Therefore, at least in my party, we need to look at this properly.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-78	Madam President, I would like It may be that many of the points raised by Roger Haddad are issues for the Liberals to discuss. We already have answers to them, and we have put forward concrete proposals regarding the reduction of the age of the criminal authorities, past efforts for young offenders and clearer consequences. This is to be read in our penalty exercise. What we are discussing concretely here and now is that the People's Party, which has changed its name to the Liberals, has also changed politics. At least this is the case in practice because in 2012 they relied on a sanction investigation and said that it was a good thing and that it would be carried out after the 2014 elections. Now it has come to 2016, and now it is said that we will sit down and look at and investigate this for another year before perhaps we have a clear line on the matter. When you say in an election campaign that you have a clear line and that you are going to implement it, it sounds a little pushy when you then, two three years later, say that we should continue to look at the issue. I am not entirely satisfied with the crooked line the Liberals have taken. I'd rather we had done a little more workshop instead of investigating all the time.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-81	Madam President, I would like I represent the Liberals, and you, Adam Marttinen, are elected for the Swedish Democrats. It is positive that you are so interested in our party and our internal processes. You are welcome to look at our forthcoming country meeting, because then this issue will come up. But it is correct that we have pushed the issue. We ran it for the election. We have also taken this line in the past through my predecessor, and it has been investigated. Then the alliance parties have changed their opinion to be in favour of penalty rebates. Some may want to remove the penalty discount in certain age categories. We disagree on these issues. There was no ready-made proposal on which we agreed, and therefore there was nothing in the 2014 elections. But now we're writing 2016. As I said in the speech, we think that the penalty rebates are too generous in certain categories, but we do not have any sharp claims. That's because we're looking at the whole age spectrum. We have specific challenges with regard to young offenders, whom we are discussing right now, and then we will look at this issue in the same package.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-85	Madam President, I would like When we debate young offenders, it is important to emphasise that we must continue to prioritise early and clear efforts with a focus on each individual young person. According to the Crime Prevention Council, young people's crime is decreasing, and fewer people think it's okay to commit crime. One reason is that it has become more difficult to commit crimes. For example, it is harder to steal cars, and there is camera surveillance in stores. But it is also a question of a change of attitude. The Crime Prevention Council's report states that those who do not commit crimes are said to have better contact with their parents. A policy that strengthens the family and enables parents to spend time with their children is therefore in itself crime prevention. Measures are also needed to increase young people's confidence in the police and society at large. This can be done, the Christian Democrats suggest, by having a special police officer attached to each school and that there are more district policemen. The police play a crucial role in crime prevention through continuous presence, contact-building and collaboration with municipalities and civil society. This is important in order, for example, to prevent anxiety and insecurity and to address problems such as gang crime. Earlier in the debate, my colleagues in the alliance have gone through several actions and proposals on which we agree. I will not repeat everything here, Madam President, but an alliance-based initiative that the Christian Democrats have pursued and which we support in the report are social intervention groups. We believe that the number of social action groups should increase and want them to be more used to tackle young people under the age of 15 who commit criminal acts. We believe it is important for all relevant actors to be involved in the work of young people with criminal problems. We also welcome the greater involvement of non-profit organisations and groups in the social action groups than is happening today. Madam President, I would like More than a quarter of serious crimes committed by children under the age of 15 have not been investigated, despite a change in the law with the clear intention that all serious crimes should be investigated, as Ellen Juntti preferred in her speech. The Christian Democrats support the need to review what further measures are needed to investigate more crimes committed by persons under 15 years of age. This is important not least from a victim's perspective. We therefore call for the approval of reservation 8. There is a need to thoroughly reform and strengthen the quality of closed youth care in Sweden. According to the Department of Criminology at Stockholm University, inpatient youth care is the least effective sanction in terms of relapse. The State Department Board, Sis, has evaluated how many have relapsed into crimes leading to conviction. Sixty-eight per cent of those sentenced to closed juvenile care received a new sentence within three years, compared to prison sentences, where 60 per cent received a new sentence after the same period of time. In 2011, the government introduced a number of measures to improve enforcement and increase the possibility of gradual lock-out in controlled forms. An enforcement plan shall be drawn up for the sentenced person. There were also calls for stronger cooperation between Sis and social services. In order to improve the lockout, the alliance government increased the allocation to Sis in order to take greater responsibility. We believe that there is a need for follow-up to these measures and a thorough reform to strengthen the quality of closed youth services. Madam President, I would like I am, of course, behind all the motions that we have written on behalf of the Christian Democrats and together with the Alliance, but, as I said, for time-winning, I am in favour of reservation 8.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-99	Madam President, I would like I will continue where I left off with the Liberals, because the Christian Democrats also expressed support in the election movement to remove the penalty rebates that exist for young offenders between 18 and 21 years of age. The chairman of the Christian Democrats' Youth League has written articles about this that can be Googled for those who are interested. Then this strange thing happens that once the election day is over, it is more interesting to investigate the proposals, to wait and to do nothing. I find that a little remarkable in the light of how clearly a problem was located in the electoral movement. A small credibility problem arises when you do not do what you have said you should do. My question to the Christian Democrats is: when will we see sharp proposals from the Christian Democrats to remove the penalty rebate for young offenders, as you promised before the election that you would do?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-102	Madam President, I would like I do not know what election meetings Adam Marttinen was at and listened to Christian Democratic representatives in the electoral movement. On the other hand, when we decided during the period of exercise what to encourage exercise about, in this case we have chosen not to raise any exercise related to the penalty discount. We did a series of penalties during the time of the Alliance in the government. The Christian Democrats have proposals for various punitive measures where we see that this is needed. As Adam Marttinen described in his speech, this is an area that we believe needs to be reviewed. We have highlighted this on the part of individual Members, and our Youth League has been committed to it. When we chose to write motions, we also wanted to wait and make an assessment of the penalties that we did in the Alliance Government and ensure that we follow up on how the penalties we have imposed affect the outcome of sentences. We are curious to see how the government is working on the Sanctions Investigation, which has made proposals. That is why the Christian Democrats have no motion in the report, and so we have no reservation there either.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-106	Madam President, I would like The effect of removing the penalty rebate for young offenders is that it is less attractive to commit serious crimes for young offenders. Another effect is, of course, that those who still commit serious crimes and are between 18 and 21 years of age may spend a little longer in prison. This will be the concrete effect of removing the individual penalty rebate. And it is precisely the individual penalty rebate that high-ranking representatives of the Christian Democrats have denounced loudly in the election movement, and it is precisely the concrete penalty rebate that we Swedish democrats are proposing to remove. I see no support from the Christian Democrats on this issue, nor any support from the other alliance parties. I think it is a small problem of credibility that one tries to be so clear in an election campaign and then, after the election, mumble forward and say that one should look forward to investigations and what the government is doing in this area. Take your own responsibility! Stand up for your policy, as you have promised the voters! Carry out what you have said! You can do this most simply by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation, which specifically proposes that this penalty rebate be removed for adults between 18 and 21 years of age.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-109	Madam President, I would like I can reassure Adam Marttinen of his concern. The Christian Democrats take responsibility for the policies we pursue. Of course, we want to discourage the attractiveness of committing crimes. We believe that it is possible to do things in different ways. In the alliance government, we have helped to tighten the penalties in a number of areas. We have various proposals on the part of the Christian Democrats. We'll follow them up. However, when we wrote motions during the general period of exercise discussed in this report, we did not come up with a sharp proposal, because we want to make an evaluation, as I explained in my previous reply. Anyone who is concerned that the Christian Democrats would not have a victim perspective, because we do not want to make it less attractive to commit crimes and that there are the sanctions and reviews needed to reduce crime, I can reassure you that this is something we Christian Democrats take very seriously. However, in this report we have no exercise or reservation.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-112	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. Today we are debating young offenders, JuU23 report. The report contains 21 requests for exercise from the general exercise period. Youth crime affects me a lot. I've been working on it a long time. Many of you sitting in this Chamber have met young people through your old occupations, whether police officers or teachers, and have seen what youth life looks like. I had the privilege of working at Fryshuset under Anders Carlberg's leadership from 2001 until I entered the Riksdag. I don't want to brag, but I want to share my experiences. Sometimes it's good to do it. It is very important when it comes to juvenile delinquency. I started a project at Fryshuset. The purpose was to counteract honor-related violence and oppression, and it was directed at young guys. To work on the project, I have to find guys who volunteered. That is why I did field outreach work in the evenings and nights. I started working in the suburbs and focused a lot on Botkyrka, Fittja, Norsborg and Hallunda. I've seen the kids, especially boys, living out in the evenings, their life situation. Many of them were already criminals, and some were entering crime. I was very worried and worried. Then I turned to the leisure leaders and social secretaries for help. How can we work? Do you know what answer I got? There were a lot of people who warned me, "Beware of those kids-- they're gonna hurt you!" You're supposed to take care of yourself! But it made me more encouraged to do this job. I'm sorry to say I've had another life. I used to be a guerrilla in Eritrea. Then I thought, what can these young guys do to me? I was more motivated to work. What I've seen is these kids lived in no-man's-land. These kids saw no one who saw them, no one who had seen them. M steam of young people was disappointed in the community. I've learned a lot from these kids. I haven't just taught them. They want trust. We built the mutual trust between me and them the way I lured them to Fryshuset. Many of these youths, who had been criminals and who were perceived as lost children, have returned. Many of them have been trained six, seven or eight months at Fryshuset. One of them, the youngest, was Leo Razzak. He is today one of the very best lecturers in Sweden. Three years ago he was among the best speakers in Sweden. Number one was the Minister of Finance, and he was number 10. I am proud to see these young people leave crime and become role models for many others, hundreds of young people. I'm proud to see these kids today. Many of them have made a good career. One of them works in a bank as an advisor to private companies. He said to me, I was going to rob banks, think, today I'm working in a bank-- I feel proud. I am raising this issue because it is very important. It's not just about money, it's not just about decisions in parliament, although decisions are important, because we have to legislate – that's why the parliament exists, it's the instruments of democracy. But it is also important that there is money. There must also be people who care, people who give their time, people who are real enthusiasts, people who are good role models and who sit and listen instead of coming with pointers and saying: You are criminals, you are bad. That's the need. Unfortunately, our debates often focus – that is important, I have to say – on juvenile delinquency. It is very rarely that we talk about what puts young people in that situation. For example, what does it look like at home? What is the family situation? For example, Ellen Juntti mentioned violence against women. I agree with her. But there are many other things. There are families who are addicts, depressed parents, long - term sick parents, long - term unemployed parents, parents who feel vulnerable and cannot cope with their own lives. It is when it does not work at home that these young people want help from society. But here there are shortcomings in society. When there is no functional leisure activity, when there is not enough field workers, where do the young people end up? Well, in a market that is open 24 hours, a no-man's-land where there are criminals, drugs and extreme groups that can recruit these young people. The area of crime prevention is wide. It's not just young people. How are we gonna take care of these kids? Most of the time, we have to work on what's around these kids, what the situation around them looks like. It's important to me. I feel proud and happy when I look at the government's efforts at school. We are making enormous efforts at school today, for example, to reduce school classes and get smaller groups and also to make special efforts at primary school, so that teachers have more time with students. Special efforts are also needed in schools with difficult conditions with poor performance. Efforts must be made for young people who lack upper secondary education. We are talking today about 24 to 25-year-olds. Despite their age, many of them lack education. Who will hire these young people? We make efforts to get them an internship or go back to school to get real jobs. I am pleased that these efforts are being made. There is also investment in Komvux, vocational training, folk high schools and universities. In particular, the 90-day guarantee is an important contribution. I would also like to comment on the claims made by the Alliance in particular. Many of them are important. I do not see that we have political conflicts. These are things that can develop. These are good practices that provide tools for young people to make it all the way. I think that's good. These are things that need to be spread. But I don't think there's a need for announcements from Parliament. When it comes to social efforts, even the National Police Board thinks they are good and yield results. You work with them. This activity remains, and I hope it will develop. The National Board of Health and Welfare also conducts an evaluation that will be reported next year. There are also other requests concerning the prevention of drug crime. The government has taken initiatives with which it has been working since last year. It's a good job. I do not think we have major conflicts in these areas. As far as sanctions are concerned, an investigation is under way which should not be pre-empted. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is important that we combat the growing divides and exclusion in society and invest in school and in good leisure activities, so that children and young people can make it all the way and not end up in crime.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-136	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that what Arhe Hamednaca tells me about her work at Fryshuset does not seem to me to be bragging. I think it sounds very good, and I think he has every reason to be satisfied with it. I agree that prevention is extremely important. The best thing is if young people never start with crime at all. It would be great if it worked. I think we need to put a lot of effort into this. Arhe Hamednaca also mentioned why youths commit crimes. I also mentioned this in my speech. I've investigated a lot of domestic violence. I see and have seen how terribly bad these children father. When the children and young people who have grown up in these homes and under ten fifteen years have seen how mother gets beaten up – sometimes it's dad, but most often it's mom – come out to town they're like gunpowder. Arhe Hamednaca surely knows that they are so frustrated and feel abandoned in every way. That is why this work is very important. In 2010, a legislative amendment was made to investigate all serious crimes committed by children under the age of 15. Even the slightly less serious crimes are to be investigated, as it is one way to try to stop the criminal course before it has gone too far. The committee's answer is that it is assumed that the government will follow the question and take action if necessary. I believe that this is necessary because 25% is not being investigated.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-141	Madam President, I would like I thank Ellen Juntti for the question, but above all for her speech. I think we have similar experiences from our professions. With regard to the question of the importance of investigating all serious crimes, we see that there are shortcomings in this regard, which is worrying. But the government is following the question and working on it, so that it can get better. If further things need to be done, the government can do so. But I trust the government will follow the question and work on it. But it's important that all crimes are investigated.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-143	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask questions about the penalty discount that many have raised here. It is linked, as I said in my speech, to the fact that the age of government was previously 21 years. But it was lowered to 18 years over 40 years ago. That is why we think it is time to remove this penalty rebate. Many people are more or less at the age of 18, and it is not reasonable for them to get a 50% discount on the penalty. The government parties have replied that work is under way and that the intention is for proposals to be made. I wonder when there will be proposals. A while ago, I asked Morgan Johansson a written question about the holiday break-up with a ankle buoy, about which the Parliament made an announcement over a year ago. I got the answer that the government is working on this. But there was no mention of when these proposals will be presented. My question is: when are the proposals coming? It can't take forever.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-146	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. As the committee has replied, the government is working on this issue. Once this work is completed, proposals will be presented. This is a priority. I cannot tell you today whether it will come next month or the following month. But as soon as the Government Office is done with this, the proposal comes. The government itself says that it is a priority issue that you are working on.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-147	Mr. Old President! Arhe Hamednaca gave a very nice post based on his expertise and experience. I fully share the view that there is a need for action in the fields of education, labour market policy, adult education and more. But that is not the focus of this debate. This debate is about young offenders. When youths under 18 commit crimes, how will society deal with this? If they're going to jail, they're going to get youth service, we're going to hook up the social services or what are we going to do with them? Because of the fact that not all crimes committed by persons under the age of 15 are investigated, despite the law enforcement carried out by the Alliance in 2010, we addressed a clear question to the government parties. You refer to future or announced measures. What are these measures? Name at least one measure. Unfortunately, I did not receive this answer in Arhe Hamednaca's speech. Mr. Old President! Arhe Hamednaca also mentioned the issue of vulnerable areas. That is why I asked to speak. We from the Liberals have just asked the Minister for Home Affairs the following question: How can the police give priority to the vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas, where 6 out of 14 particularly vulnerable areas are located in the municipality of Gothenburg? In these police regions, no matter who you talk to or visit, they say they do not receive any new resources. It is the police who are supposed to conjure up resources, and it is the police who are going to increase the prevention of crime. As Arhe Hamednaca shares the view on the need for this, I would like to ask what information he has for these police regions. In addition, I can inform you that the Minister for the Interior has commented only on the 14 particularly vulnerable areas. The other vulnerable areas – that is over 30 – he has not endeavoured to comment at all. But now Arhe Hamednaca has the chance to answer this.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-153	Mr. Old President! I am not a Minister of the Interior, but I trust and believe in the Home Secretary's answer. When it comes to crime prevention, Roger, I was talking about schools and labour market measures, but you're saying it's not the focus. For me, the real crime prevention work is actually investing in the school. We should not talk about what happens when young people have fallen into crime; they should not end up there! We're going to bet on the school. We are going to invest in labour market measures. They are important and correct in the prevention work. We can't say we shouldn't talk about school when it comes to young offenders. We should not say that we should not talk about young people in terms of the labour market situation. It's crime prevention. That's what it takes. I am convinced that this is where proper efforts are needed. When it comes to investigating these crimes, I just replied that the serious crimes need to be investigated. That's what I've been saying. The government also follows the questions. If you ask me to mention measures, I cannot mention any. But the government is following the work with great interest. As far as the police are concerned, the purpose of the new police organisation is to get as close to society as possible. But now we also see that the police, with the new district police, are getting closer to these areas. 200 police officers will now be stationed in Rinkeby. We need to give the new organization a chance.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-159	Mr. Old President! The last time I had a debate with the Minister for the Interior, he brought up the 200 police officers. But this initiative comes about thanks to the Alliance, mainly the Moderates and Liberals, who have been pushing the issue in the district council for several years. But I only found out after my debate with the Home Secretary. It's not the government's credit. Let us return to this debate. I debated high school, drop-outs and youth unemployment yesterday. But it was in a high school debate. We now have a debate in the Committee on Justice on young offenders. That is what we are discussing. Are we going to investigate or not? Should there be a penalty for those under 18 or not? How are we going to deal with those under 15? That is the focus of this debate. Arhe Hamednaca says we need to investigate more and that the government is showing interest. But that is what we in the Alliance want an announcement to the government about. Because we do not think it works well enough. That's why we want to send that signal to the government. But you say no to that, Arhe Hamednaca. Why do you say no to that? With regard to the question of police resources, it may well belong in another debate. But you are using the area organisation and more visible police officers in your argument in the report to propose rejection of our claims. You're saying there'll be more local policemen and there'll be more district police. But the reform is not fully implemented. Particularly vulnerable areas are a breeding ground for particular radicalisation and crime. They are environments where especially young people are recruited – in Örebro, in Gothenburg, in Malmö. They must also have a better police presence and increased police resources for crime prevention. The message of the liberals is that it is missing. Here, too, you say no.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-164	Mr. Old President! As regards the role of the police in these vulnerable areas, we must give the police and the new reorganisation a chance. We're already seeing how they work. We have visited different regions and have heard them tell us how they work. They also report their contacts. However, it is not just about the poise. The police are still doing a good job. But alongside the police, civil society, the authorities that are there, and municipalities are needed. It's not just the police who are supposed to prevent crime. I think the police also need the good community around them. We should not just focus on how many police officers are to be stationed in these areas. The police are doing a good job. You bet and you'll be more visible. We're seeing what's happening in the areas now, in Rinkeby, which I mentioned-- I don't know if it's come about thanks to the district council or not. It's a new organization. The police are reorganizing. This is how they invest in those areas.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-167	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal on this matter to be approved. There has been a lot of exercise on the subject. I can agree that there are many sensible proposals. Many suggestions are interesting to take forward. At the same time, the report clearly responds that this is happening. Saying the same thing over and over again doesn't make things any better. The government listens to Parliament's proposals and works on them. It's a little bit to break open doors. I cannot help but point out, like the previous speaker, Mr Arhe, that I recognise this theme and subject. My wife and I ran a women's home in crisis for 15 years. There we received women from environments described here: criminal environments, substance abuse environments and so on. I know how important this is. Much, however, ends up in the border country. We in Parliament should be a little humble there. These are largely municipal issues and about the cooperation between the Riksdag, state authorities – for example Sis, the Prison Service, the police – and municipal activities. What is difficult now is to lift this, now that the municipalities are starting to recover and get work started in social areas again. Several speakers have been to the police organisation, for example. The Committee on Justice has been on three visits to the regions so far. I've been present at all three. I would particularly like to highlight the last visit to Borås last Friday. We were drawn by the local police in Hässleholmen and Hulta. I was incredibly impressed by their work and what they described in terms of contact and presence in the area and prevention. I feel that much of that is what several of the Alliance's movements are aimed at, for example. As I have pointed out on several occasions in the speaker's chair recently, I come from Södertälje. We also have vulnerable areas there. I know how difficult it is to move forward, to anchor the work in such a way that we reach those young people who are at risk of getting caught up in the law. It is important that they are given clear answers. That's absolutely right. And we do. I'm impressed by the way the reorganisation of the police takes place and slowly finds its shape. In Borås, for example, it turns out that this is on the right track. I'm sure there'll be things that can get better and so on. But here we show that things are happening in vulnerable areas. It's getting better. It doesn't just get worse. This is also reflected in the committee's response to the various motions. Then I can't help pointing out that I was very happy listening to Roger Haddad just now. He explained the problem of what happens when you deal too carelessly with young offenders' age limits, imprisonments and so on. Here we will listen carefully to the research and see where the balance point lies between stricter penalties, clarity and effect. It is a question of reducing the number of young offenders. Like Ahre, we want to save young people from crime. We want to create a safer society. It is also a question of having faith in these people. That is why I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-178	Mr. Old President! We had the discussion about penalty rebates for young criminals in the last line shift. Mats Pertoft mentioned the need to strike a careful balance. Now it is only the Swedish Democrats who have called for the penalty rebate to be removed. The Moderates have a reservation, but they have chosen not to agree to that reservation. It will therefore only be the Swedish Democrats who in this House this year want the penalty rebate for young offenders between 18 and 21 years of age to be removed. One should investigate the effects of the punishment and one must be careful to see what the consequences are. I would just like to hear how the Green Party is reasoning in cases where people considered by society to be adults commit serious crimes. What is the point of giving them reduced penalties of up to 50 percent? I would like an explanation for that.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-180	Mr. Old President! The point is not the system, but the point is that we from the Green Party have respect for Sweden's courts making the right assessment based on the laws that we have decided on here in the Swedish parliament. We are not having any discussion in the Green Party about lowering that age limit. Above all, we are thinking more about how to prevent more criminals, about young people not choosing the criminal path, about how to build a working life for those who need it. It's not like someone's born a criminal.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-182	Mr. Old President! It is never good that people commit crimes, it must be the starting point. If you are going to rate it, it must be worse for younger people to commit serious crimes, because it risks destroying their lives in the very long term. Many of those who commit serious crimes have less inhibitions to commit further crimes. That is why so many of the young people who have committed serious crimes are relapsing into crime. It must be worse for young people to commit serious crimes. We know that there is organised crime that exploits young people because there is a penalty discount of up to 50%. There is organised crime that exploits the fact that young people can commit the same crimes as adults, but they receive a reduced penalty. They are thus motivated to commit these serious crimes. We know that this is the case, and I have not heard any other explanation for the fact that it would be positive for adults to have reduced penalties. Then I understand nothing, so I have to ask the question again: what is the point of adult people having a reduced penalty of up to 50% when they commit serious crimes? I still don't understand it.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-185	Mr. Old President! My assessment is also based on my knowledge of research and how we can help and support these young people so that they come back to the right path, to a non-criminal life. After all, it is not entirely unknown that prison sentences have no positive impact on young people. But that doesn't mean they're not going to get any punishment, that's not what I'm saying... so I won't be misunderstood. But there is a strong problem about long prison sentences and young people and what it means for their lives to be thrown further into criminal circles. That is the great difficulty. Punishment itself won't help.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-189	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-191	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the Prime Minister of the European Parliament spoke about, among other things, the importance of competing with knowledge in Europe. At the same time, in this House, our proposal for Sweden's students to have more math in school was discussed. It opposed Stefan Lövven's party and the government base. My question is: Why was it important to deny the students more math in school?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-194	Madam President, I would like That's not true. We suggest that we expand mathematics classes in school in grades 4 to 6, so that is not correct. However, unlike the former, this government has decided to invest in school for real. We make a big effort to ensure that students have more time with their teachers and that teachers' salaries can be increased so that the teaching profession becomes more attractive. We spend more money on a more equal school. We're making a big effort at school. In the Moderates' budget, however, there are cuts in school with quite a lot of money. School cuts mean less time between teachers and pupils and less resources. It won't be a better school. We've chosen to invest in school. We will hold on to it, and I wish the Moderates would join that course as well.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-198	Madam President, I would like The fact that it is a melodic festival on Saturday does not make it more suitable with a tonart rise. One does not give the students more math in school. That's what this is actually about, Stefan Löfven. We voted yesterday in this House on primary school issues. At that time our proposal to strengthen math in high school and give Sweden's students more. It opposed your party and your government colleagues. My question is again: why is it important for the Prime Minister to deny Sweden's students more math in school, when we need to compete with knowledge?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-201	Madam President, I would like Melodies or not, you still have to stick to the truth. We propose an increase in mathematics classes in the Swedish school. In addition, we want to increase resources considerably. The Moderates talk a lot about school. You're talking. But that's not enough. You have to put resources in there to make a difference, and that's what we do. That's a big difference. You intend to continue lowering taxes; it is your highest dream. We think we should invest more in our children, and our children need a much better school. Let me remind Anna Kinberg Batra that it was during your reign that not least the school results fell considerably. I am pleased if you also want to prioritise school, but let us get back to that when we present budgets and see how much resources the Moderates are prepared to spend on school – for once.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-206	Madam President, I would like You have heard these words before, but it does not make them less true: it is work that is the key to integration. In the Center Party we take this very seriously. We don't sit around and roll our thumbs waiting for this to work itself out. Instead, we have put forward a large number of proposals on how jobs can be increased, not least by investing in companies being able to grow and making it easier to hire. However, we have also called on the social partners to shoulder their responsibilities by concluding agreements to hire newcomers who may lack language skills and have insufficient training for lower entry wages. We have also said that if the social partners are prepared to do this, we intend to pursue politically that it should be matched with reduced income tax or social security contributions. Madam President, I would like The criticism of the Prime Minister against the Center Party's proposal for jobs for the new arrivals has not been put on hold. It is something strange, especially as the only person in Sweden who has been involved in lowering people's wages is Prime Minister Löfven. During his time as President of IF Metall, he made an agreement that reduced the salary of most of Metall's members. It was an agreement that actually meant that there was less money in the wallet for the employee. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Why is it more important for the Prime Minister to protect an IF Metallare's job than to create opportunities for new arrivals to enter the Swedish labour market?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-211	Madam President, I would like It was a very strange question. Why is it more important to protect an IF Metaler's job? Is it the Center Party's dream not to protect the jobs that exist? Is that what you're after? I intend to protect the jobs that exist, yes. I'm also going to make sure that people who come here get jobs. There is an important fundamental difference here, and that is that I stand for the Swedish model in full. It means that it is the parties who put wages on the labour market. They're negotiating. They're the ones who find the balance. Now the Center Party says: Yes, we think the parties should do it. The Swedish model is good. But if the parties do not do what we want, then we will legislate. Then the Swedish model has been broken, and it is not Sweden's servant of. Sweden has a long successful history and will have a long successful future with the Swedish model. Then don't break it. What IF Metall did – Anders W Jonsson will probably have to read a little more – was not to lower the salary for most IF Metall:are. We concluded a central agreement between the parties which allowed working time to be reduced if the parties at company level agreed on it. That's the point. Then it turns out that the parties take the responsibility that the parties should take. But then the parties do so because the parties can handle this. I'm just saying, with all due respect to Anders W Jonsson: You're not good enough to manage wage formation in the Swedish labour market. You're not supposed to do that. The parties shall do so. I stand up for that, and that is the Swedish model.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-218	Madam President, I would like I would remind the Prime Minister that the foundation of the Swedish model is that people come to work. Today we have a huge challenge. There are 300 000 people in this country who lack education or have inadequate education and, moreover, do not know the Swedish language. In this situation, the Center Party has proposed that the social partners, together with us politicians, must be prepared to take responsibility for this by accepting lower entry wages for people with a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language who also have a lack of education. What is surprising is the breast tones that the Prime Minister uses in this situation, when Metal was actually prepared to use precisely this instrument during the crisis. That was right, according to the Prime Minister, but it is not right when it comes to solving the huge challenge we are facing today in Sweden, namely how these 300 000 newcomers with inadequate education and also poor knowledge of the Swedish language should be able to enter the labour market.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-222	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me remind you that at the moment employment is rising and unemployment is falling. Unemployment is falling for the long-term unemployed, for young people and for those who have come from other countries. Above all, and I am pleased to see, employment goes up for immigrant women. That's good. A great deal remains to be done in this area. I'm absolutely convinced of that. But that is precisely the point of the labour market model. It's the parties who settle. If the Center Party wants to call on the parties to settle, fine, but if you threaten with legislation when the parties do not do what you want, you have not understood the Swedish model. Then you risk it. No parties want salaries to be paid in the Swedish parliament. Keep our country out of this!
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-227	Madam President, I would like The other day Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and other leaders of various EU countries met Turkey's Prime Minister. The negotiation was about finding a system in which refugees are to be expelled directly from the EU to Turkey. It's a troubling setup for a lot of reasons. Turkey is not a safe country for people on the run. Turkey has repeatedly sent refugees back to Syria. Turkey does not grant refugee status to refugees who are non-Europeans. There have been slightly different interpretations of what the statement means, and it should also be clarified before a final decision is taken. But one of the clearest wordings in the statement means that all new ones will be sent back. That is what it says: all non-regulars, as they are called, are to be sent back to Turkey. This also applies to Syrians, for example. At the same time, the Prime Minister has made a partly different interpretation and in several interviews said that there should be an individual examination. This is what the right to asylum and the conventions are based on. That is what the UN claims. It is a fundamental pillar of the right of asylum. The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) expresses great concern that the agreement will put an end to individual examination and the right to asylum. That is also how I interpret the text when I read it. There's black and white that everyone should be sent back. Now we will soon know what it will be like, when you have chiseled this out in a more legalistic form. If it is as the UNHCR fears and as I also fear, that there will be mass expulsions from the EU without individual examination, in other words, in violation of the right of asylum, will Sweden say no and that it will not agree to this?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-232	Madam President, I would like I share the view that there are a lot of concerns in Turkey. I am thinking of the armed conflict with the PKK and what people are exposed to in the south-east of the country. I am thinking of the role in the Syria conflict, the threat to democracy and what is being done to the media. There are a lot of challenges. There's no doubt about it. At the same time, we are witnessing at the moment how thousands of people are paying large sums of money to traffickers, who are taking over the water that unites Europe and Turkey. This year alone, more than 400 people have died. I think it is important to try to do something right to stop this. To this end, one must try to break this business model. It has become a business model for totally unscrupulous people who take people on these rank boats over the water. Something must be done to stop this. Ideally, we should come to a system in which we can receive refugees from Turkey in an orderly manner. That is the change that I want to achieve. Sweden – it was, of course, myself who was present at the hearing – drove exactly the wording that is important in this document, namely that the work to be done according to the mandate that Tusk was given should be done with respect for international law and the EU acquis. This should guide the job, and it is based on this that it should then be measured.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-236	Madam President, I would like I do not think the smuggling of refugees will be any less dangerous if people are massacred. I think it's getting more dangerous. I don't think that's the argument. The document then contains wordings that are contradictory. There are wordings that stand up for international law, but then there is the crystal clear wording that everyone should be rejected directly, that is, without trial. It is contrary to international law. The problem is that there are very few countries, perhaps just Sweden and some other country, which, at this point, stands up for the right of asylum. It is now up to Sweden to say that we do not accept mass demonstrations without trial and that we do not accept the fact that the right of asylum is actually being eliminated by the European Union. These are the words I would like to hear from my Prime Minister here today, because those words are needed in Europe today.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-239	Madam President, I would like There is a reason why I did this in the document. It is as clear as in the other wordings that this concreteisation and formulation of these rules should be done with respect for international rules, international law and EU law. There's a reason for that, and that's because I think so. But we have this concern, and I do not hear any other suggestions as to how to deal with the problem. It is a huge problem that people are exposed to this. We must put an end to this and we must be able to switch to an order in which this is done. I would, for example, like to see greater cooperation with the UNHCR, so that we create legal ways for people into Europe without having to take the dangerous path and let themselves be fooled by unscrupulous traffickers. We need to stop this. I think that is as important a task as anyone else, and I am obsessed with that.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-242	Madam President, I would like We have all been occupied with what we call the refugee crisis. I always recall that the refugee crisis is, above all, a crisis for those people who are forced to flee war and persecution. The crisis we are seeing is really about leadership in Europe that is not working, where we could be able to provide much more people with protection. In the situation we were in last autumn, we in the Liberals took responsibility together with the government and the entire Alliance to find a number of measures for a few more to seek protection in other European countries and a few fewer precisely in Sweden. We had had good talks, but after that, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister went to a press conference and announced, unilaterally and rather unthinkingly, that Sweden should now have the most restrictive policy possible in Europe. Just a short time after the Prime Minister stood on Söder in Stockholm and talked about not building walls in Europe, he himself made proposals to close the Öresund Bridge. Soon these proposals will now be on the table of the Riksdag. One of the most serious things we Liberals think is that the proposals involve dividing children and parents. The proposal that the government now wants to vote on means that if a mother or father has applied to Sweden and if the children have escaped, the children should not be allowed to come to Sweden. I think that is an ill-considered proposal, Prime Minister! A moment ago, the Prime Minister described something that I think is deeply worrying, namely that people are being forced into the hands of refugee smugglers with shrill boats. It's a huge problem. What the Prime Minister is proposing, however, is to close one of the few legal ways in. My specific question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister convinced that the proposal the Government is now making will not lead to more children being forced on board boats to meet their parents in Sweden?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-246	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is worrying that the EU is not able to act as it should. I have said many times and will continue to do so that if 28 Member States were to assume their responsibilities, this would be all right. We could do it. We are a continent with 508 million inhabitants. Of course we can do that. But now it didn't work. When I say that my Europe is not building walls, I mean exactly that. I do not think that Europe and Europe should build walls. The EU should be accessible to people who need to flee for their lives. It is precisely for that reason that I am fighting for Europe to have a common policy. But when it's not done, we have to do what we do. That's why this government is doing what it needs to do. It was not a fun decision, but, as Erik Ullenhag says, we have discussed this with the opposition in order to find a solution that gives us rules that are equal to those in other EU Member States. It is absolutely necessary to come to another order. We had such a dramatic increase last autumn that social services are not working. It doesn't work well enough for kids coming here. It doesn't work well enough for children who are already here. I went to Mölndal at the time of the tragic murder to talk to the council and others. The municipal management together with the trade unions, Save the Children and others, describe that they do not have the grip. They hardly knew about this new home. Then we have a problem that we have to deal with. For this reason, we have the new rules. I believe that these are sometimes rather difficult balances to make. But in the long run, this is the right thing to do.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-252	Madam President, I would like The TV viewer or the one sitting in the gallery who thought it was an answer to the question can gladly send an email to the Government Office and thank you for the answer. My question was very specific, Prime Minister. I am deeply concerned about a policy of breaking up families with children. These are people who have fled Syria, who sit in Sweden and have their children somewhere on the run. I am deeply concerned that the policy you are proposing means that those children will still try to get to Sweden. We have had a system where those children have been able to legally come to Sweden. You want to change that. I repeat the question: Is the Prime Minister absolutely convinced that this will not mean that more children who want to get to Sweden are forced on board boats? It is a paradox in this context that, while this is being done, the government is proposing that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should become Swedish law. I think that's good. But I am thinking of the referee on this proposal, Prime Minister. The Ombudsman for Children writes that it is completely contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Red Cross says that this is the most critical referral they have ever submitted and also says that it is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. My second question, Prime Minister, is: can you explain how this is compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-257	Madam President, I would like The problem is that the EU does not accept its responsibilities. We had 35,000 unaccompanied children. It's not just bringing in a child and putting it somewhere on the street. The child must be taken care of, must have education and must live somewhere. Clearly, in such a dramatic situation, we must do something else. That's why the pressure should be on those who don't do anything. It is unreasonable that the greatest criticism should go to the country that has done the most. We have to look at that situation too. Social Services in Sweden say: We cannot really take responsibility for how this works. In some municipalities, many people in social services resign. The social secretaries are resigning. They say, "We can't take it anymore." We can't deal with this situation. We must take responsibility for this. I will take responsibility for the fact that we have order and order in the reception of refugees in Sweden. And we're gonna make it through our welfare.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-261	Madam President, I would like Nine out of ten young people reply in the Youth Barometer report that they think it is very important for them to choose which school to attend. 315 000 students in Sweden have made an active choice to go to a school with a certain focus, profile or pedagogy that suits them best. Madam President, I would like The free school agreement, where six parties agreed, was intended to give the free schools long-term information and conditions. But at the 2015 Congress of the Social Democrats, it was decided that municipalities should be given a veto and be able to stop the establishment of free schools. With this decision, the Social Democrats have created a great deal of uncertainty in the free school industry about what development will look like in the future. No municipal veto was included in the free school agreement. The uncertainty as to whether you dare to start a free school today is mainly based on the unclear information that the government has given about the future. I would therefore like to ask, Madam President, whether the Prime Minister today, at Question Time here in Parliament, can remove this uncertainty. Or is the idea that the government will implement the Congress decision of the Social Democrats: that the municipalities should have a veto on which free schools are to be established?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-265	Madam President, I would like We have a deal in this area. Yes, we basically think that the municipality should have an influence on how school development is in the municipality. I think it's important. That is why there is also an investigation in this area. We will have to come back to how this is to be done. It cannot be just a market issue. It can not only be the market players who are allowed to decide what schools should look like in the municipalities. We must have a system in which democracy also has influence. It should not be the case that those responsible to the residents of the municipality for the budget and tax revenue have no say in what school expenditure you should have and how many schools you should have. School's not a market any day. We think it is right to be able to choose a school – absolutely. But there must also be some limitation in the power of the market. We have an investigation in this area. We will have to come back to exactly what those rules should look like.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-269	Madam President, I would like Should I interpret the Prime Minister as being in favour of a municipal veto on free-school establishments? Is that the message to the parents who, together with their children, are going to go through which upper secondary schools they can choose for the autumn? They may now sit and think about which direction to choose. Is the answer that the Prime Minister thinks that it is municipal politicians who have the best knowledge of what parents and children should decide? Or what information does the Prime Minister want to give them? What information does the Prime Minister want to give to those actors who are passionate about establishing a school that can offer pupils a different education or profile, which can appeal to more and which can thus increase freedom of choice? This is not primarily a market issue, Prime Minister. This is a matter of choice. What information does the Prime Minister want to give to the parents and students who sit and think about which high school to choose?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-271	Madam President, I would like It should be interpreted exactly as I said. We are in the process of investigating what the proposals should be. I think it's important to do that. Of course, we want students and parents to have the opportunity to choose a school. That's right. But we also need to think about: Should we have a system in Sweden where it is free to open schools and collect money from the municipality's treasury, and where the elected representatives in the municipality have no opportunity to control what development should look like? Is that a fair order? I don't think so. It will, of course, be on market terms. Let's say I want to start a school there, there and there! Then the municipality says: Yes, we really have enough schools, but we will pay for one more. Maybe we'll have to put someone else down instead. I think that is a problem complex that is well worth considering. That's why we do it.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-276	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! I love Sweden, and I'm proud to live here. But something is breaking up in Sweden. It saddens me and worries me. A wave of assaults and sexual assaults on girls sweeps across the country – from Skåne in the south to Jämtland in the north. In Östersund, there have been eight attacks outside within just over two weeks. There, women are now warned against going out on their own at night. In recent times, there has been a dramatic increase in sexual abuse, not least in our baths, where you can now have both the guard and the police. The latest national safety survey shows that 25 percent of women feel very insecure outdoors in the evening. 10% of these choose not to go out at all because they feel insecure. This is what the Prime Minister's Sweden today looks like. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is this a social development that we should begin to get used to? If not, what steps will the Prime Minister take to make women and girls feel safe in our society?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-280	Madam President, I would like No, we'll never ever accept such a development... never. I am very upset that women and girls cannot feel safe in the streets and wherever it can be and that they are being violated and sexually harassed. It upsets me deeply. We will never ever accept that. We must first note that, unfortunately, this is not a new phenomenon. Unfortunately, girls and women in Sweden have been exposed to this for a long time. I'm saying, unfortunately, because I find it so regrettable and so rotten. That is why we must both work proactively and be clear about what is okay and what is not okay in our country and put a very great responsibility on us men to take responsibility for how men act in this regard, I mean. Then the police will have enough resources. It is the task of the police to ensure that women can be safe.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I am concerned that the measures proposed by the Prime Minister will not be enough. I think we need to put in a battery of measures and turn every stone around to understand why this is actually happening in our society and not turn a blind eye to anything at all. That is the only way to find a solution to this problem.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-286	Madam President, I would like I share that view. We are going to turn every stone around to get to this problem, because it should never be acceptable for women in Sweden to feel insecure, be sexually harassed or molested. That's where we're gonna put all the punches. We are also working on a strategy for the protection of women. Then, once again, the police must also be given more resources.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-288	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Industry is an invaluable asset for Sweden. Actually, our entire well-being is built on industry as a basis. We are also one of the world's most internationalized countries, where half of what we produce is sold abroad. At the moment, large parts of Swedish industry are doing very well. For the first time in 20 years, we win export shares. We have a top-class growth. With the exception of the mining and steel industry, most things go well. At the same time, we are in the middle of a restructuring of the industry, what is called Industry 4.0. After the steam, electricity and electronics come digitalisation, automation and robotics. This can be a threat but can also be converted into an asset for Sweden. In some sectors, we can see that investments are starting to return when smart factories are to be set up.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-292	Madam President, I would like That is quite right: the importance of industry is and will be great. Those who thought the industry would disappear were wrong. I would like to remind you that it was, I believe, three years on the day after Reinfeldt in Davos exclaimed that industry is We believe in the strategy, we believe in its possibilities. The strategy is based on a few points. One is digitalisation. We will strengthen digitalisation and exploit its opportunities in the Swedish industry. We must also have sustainable production; for example, resource efficiency must be at the forefront. We're going to have an industry based on high knowledge, because that's where we're going to compete. We will also make sure to develop test beds that enable us to take research into reality and show the world around us that this is what Sweden can do, and then produce strong products that we will sell around the world and take more market shares.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-295	Madam President, I would like At the moment, intensive discussions are taking place in the EU on migration and the refugee crisis. People are still forced to flee, and as long as there are no legal alternatives, the deadly journeys across the Mediterranean will continue. Today, five more people drowned, one of which was a three - month infant. The Prime Minister gave a speech in Strasbourg yesterday, and my Green colleagues from different countries expressed how good it was that the Prime Minister talked about the need for all countries to take joint responsibility and the right to asylum to be safeguarded. However, I am concerned about the proposal now under discussion on the situation in Greece and Turkey. I am therefore extremely pleased that the Prime Minister has made a clear effort to respect international law and the right to individual examination. My question is: how will the Prime Minister work in the future to ensure that the right of asylum is safeguarded at a time like this?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-299	Madam President, I would like The mandate given to Tusk was to negotiate on the basis of a number of principles – the return from Greece to Turkey and an orderly migration from Turkey to the EU – in exchange for the EU also looking at whether it is possible to speed up visa liberalisation rules, whether it is possible to open new chapters to the application for membership and also speed up the use of the money that the EU has allocated to helping refugees in Turkey. This is the mandate, and what I fought to get in and also got into the text was that this work should be done with respect for international rules and the EU's own regulatory framework. That's how these rules will now be developed. Now we are following it closely, and it is clear that, as I myself pushed for the text to be included, we are constantly following the proposals. I see a very, very complex situation in front of me.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-303	Madam President, I would like The Swedish model is that the social partners determine the conditions of the labour market. This is often done through collective agreements, but the Swedish model also includes the right not to sign collective agreements. This regime is now being abandoned by the government through collective agreement requirements in public procurement. Madam President, I would like Six out of ten companies with fewer than 50 employees have no collective agreements. Far too few bid for public procurement. With the government's proposal, it would be even fewer. My question is: why is the government abandoning the Swedish model? Why do you want to make it harder for companies to grow and get jobs to grow? I hope that the Prime Minister does not now accuse us of wanting to reduce wages or reduce the conditions for workers. We don't want that. We want fair conditions, and the one who has actually reduced wages is the Prime Minister himself during his time as Chairman of Metal.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-307	Madam President, I would like Yeah, I'm gonna say it. You want to lower the income of people, because that is exactly what your proposal is about. It's just to read inside. If you assume that you will work a certain number of fewer hours it becomes so permanent. It'll be a smaller income. The Moderates are very clear that they would rather not have anything to do with collective agreements at all. Collective agreements are an important part of the Swedish model. It has served us extremely well and will do so in the future. It drives productivity, efficiency and flexibility, but it also ensures that what is achieved in production is distributed fairly fairly and fairly. We'll take care of that model. Should public procurement not promote the Swedish model? I mean, it's supposed to. That's the kind of requirement we're going to have. When we spend so much common money, we're gonna make sure it's the nicest job and nothing else.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-311	Madam President, I would like Revolutionary Communist youth is an organization that actively works to overthrow democracy in Sweden through an armed struggle and a bloodbath against all those they call. The organization's party program is a poorly hidden preparation to turn Sweden into Cambodia in the 80's. On International Women's Day, SSU and Green Youth, together with Revolutionary Communist Youth, participated in joint manifestations around the country. In Stockholm, RKU co-organized demonstrations on International Women's Day together with among others Green Youth, SSU, S-women, Left Party and FI. Revolutionary Communist youth has also themselves described how they often have good cooperation with SSU and Green Youth. It is true that parts of the SSU have dissociated themselves from revolutionary communist youth, but parts of the SSU are also clearly positive. How does the Prime Minister believe that confidence in the government's work against terrorism and violent extremism is affected by SSU's openly cooperating with organisations that clearly stand for violence-promoting extremism?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-314	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether this was a general policy issue. The last statement, that SSU supports or supports this, is directly wrong. SSU doesn't. Then, as Prime Minister, I don't have exactly all the events that are done around the country and who does what with whom. However, I am very clear about what we stand for. We stand for democracy. It is the Social Democracy that, together with the Liberals, has once made sure that we have democracy in the country, and that is what applies – nothing else. We stand up for women's rights – nothing else. If there is a demonstration together with SSU where other organisations do not stand up for this, that part of SSU will have to stand for it, and it is SSU who will answer such a question. I stand up for democracy and human rights, and I will not fold one millimetre from that.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-317	Madam President, I would like The other day the police announced that they had completed and closed the investigation after the horrific, according to the police racist, hate crime that took place in Trollhättan at the school Kronan on 22 October. Dreams went out, families were in grief, and the country was in terror. It was about bodies whose only sin was a darker pigment. What conclusions has the government drawn, the Prime Minister, from what happened and from the closure of the investigation? What measures does the government intend to take?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-320	Madam President, I would like The conclusions must be drawn and then we can see what they may mean. It's too soon. I am as dismayed at this act as did Said Abdu. We must work very clearly against violence sextremism. That is why there is work with a national coordinator. There must be coordination nationally, both politically and locally, between municipalities, police and others that can be helpful. It was obviously an act of racist insanity. Unfortunately, it is too early to draw any conclusions from the decision on the preliminary investigation.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-324	Madam President, I would like On Tuesday, International Women's Day was celebrated worldwide. It is a day when women's struggle for equality and freedom is recognised. Today it may seem obvious that women should have the same opportunities as men to influence their everyday lives and create a future based on their own dreams. But there is a great deal of inequality between the health of women and men. Women are on sick leave to a much greater extent than men. Two out of three people on sick leave are women. It is a historical pattern that has persisted. The psychiatric diagnoses are currently the most common cause of sick leave, and they are increasing for both women and men – but the increase is greater in women.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-327	Madam President, I would like This is a very important part of the equality that we must achieve in Sweden. There is an equality work in the long term to both close the tangible gap in health that is uniquely large and has become larger, as well as the gap between women and men. An important starting point is to reduce the disease rate. At least 60 000 fewer people should have to be on sick leave, but then we need to know what is the biggest problem. We should be honest and say that it is not least the common sector. There, staffing is far too cheap in many parts – in elderly care, in health care and in social services. We're trying to fix that. The greatest and best thing we can do is to ensure that these women have a reasonable working environment. For example, they need more colleagues and more colleagues, not reduced taxes. We will make sure to deliver more co-workers in the common sector.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-331	Madam President, I would like During the time of the Alliance, it was invested in welfare. A laborious and long-term work began by systematically shortening waiting times and increasing the availability of healthcare. Instead of taking hold of waiting times and increasing accessibility, the government wants to redraw Sweden's map. That's the wrong focus. Place the map in the trash, and focus on equality and ensuring high quality in health care. If the Prime Minister had done so, Sweden would have been in the international top class. It is the waiting time that places Sweden far down in the ranking.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-335	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to remind you that it was under the previous government that the number of people employed in the well-being of the population actually fell drastically. Now the government has turned this around and steered Sweden from tax cuts to investments, so that there will be advice to hire more. That's why there's more in welfare. The waiting device introduced by the previous government was certainly well-meaning, but it led wrong. It led the doctors to say that it is not based on health and the individual's needs that they should control, but it is to get as much money as possible. It was a wrong system. That is why the system must be redesigned. We're going to aim for as short a waiting period as possible. It includes, for me, making sure that professionals actually get to be professionals, that doctors get more time for patients rather than for administration.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-339	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister himself has shown how often and gladly he reads the Swedish Energy Agency's reports with great care. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the latest report from the Authority. It shows that the increased tax on biofuels introduced by the government at the turn of the year was not at all necessary under the EU acquis, as the government has consistently argued. In fact, it was completely unnecessary, just as we in the Center Party have always said. The government's tax increase of at least 300 million has effectively knocked away the bones of ethanol and for a great deal of biodiesel, and sales dive. Does the Prime Minister and the Government intend to change their previous decisions and reduce the tax on biofuels in the forthcoming spring change budget, or will criminal taxation remain as it is today? If the government is serious about fossil freedom, it is time to reduce that tax.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-343	Madam President, I would like Notification of what comes in the budget when we present the budget. The information we had at that time was that that was how Sweden had to do. Now, of course, we will review the tax, but what information will be given in the budget when the budget comes.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-345	Madam President, I would like The other day there was a report from our law enforcement agencies called The future volume of activities in the justice chain. The report clearly shows a forecast in which there will be fewer and fewer court proceedings during 2016 – 2019, and fewer and fewer crimes will be prosecuted. That's because the police are deprioritising everyday crimes. When there were bad figures under the previous government, it was careful to talk constantly about the clearance percentage, but this government is silent. Last autumn, the government did not consider that resources were needed for the police, nor that the target of 20,000 police officers was needed. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with a development where fewer crimes will be prosecuted in the coming years? If the Prime Minister is not satisfied, what is the plan?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-348	Madam President, I would like Of course it should be a high clearance percentage. The police are going to clear up crimes, as a first part of that chain. That is why the police also need more resources. We have received such a request from the police. Let's analyze what the police want. On the other hand, I doubt that the Moderates have decided exactly how to man the authorities. For which other authorities do the Moderates intend to decide how many should be in different professions? It is clear that the police must have more resources, but exactly what the distribution should be like, we must be able to discuss with the authority so that it can design the operation and organisation itself in the way that the authority considers to be the most effective. That's how much I think we should stand up for the pros to be pros. They are better sent to make that distribution in their staff categories than moderate MPs.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-352	Madam President, I would like A few years ago, the investigation began on special high-speed trains between our three largest cities. If this was a broad consensus across the block border. The calculations at the time suggested that the tracks would cost about SEK 125 billion. Since then, the cost forecast has been written up considerably – the latest figure is about SEK 300 billion, and this does not include station buildings or connection tracks. We need to develop the railways, but the knowledge we have now gained shows that the high-speed routes are much more expensive than we thought. What is the Prime Minister's view of the risk that a high-speed train investment will push away other rail initiatives that are even more important for us travellers, for freight transport and for the climate?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-355	Madam President, I would like Infrastructure is a high priority, for the simple reason that in our elongated country we must be able to transport both people and goods in such a way that we can have high efficiency and productivity. I have seen that Sweden, too, at some point – 40 – 50 years after Japan – might be able to have high-speed trains. I think it is a good project to develop. These negotiations are now under way, as you know, and I think we should wait for them. But we also have to do a huge check, because it is quite right that the cost increase we have now had to take part in is so dramatic that we cannot just ignore it. A cost estimate was made by the previous government, and it turned out to be far too low. Now comes a whole new message, and with that, of course, we must review it. However, as there are negotiations going on in this part, I think that they must be brought to an end, quite simply.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-358	Madam President, I would like The Swedish haulage industry is in a very vulnerable situation today. One can legitimately say that the Swedish model is strongly questioned – yes, even disabled – in parts of the haulage industry. Unfair competition, dumped wages via false F-tax notes and temporary agency workers occur every day in this industry. There are companies with more than 200 cars but not a single employee. You can ask yourself how things work out.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-360	Madam President, I would like This is a really big problem that threatens the entire Swedish model. Much has to do with the so-called cabotage rules. They make it – quite rightly – possible for foreign hauliers to come in to leave goods, and there are some rules on how they can drive in Sweden before they go out again. These are the rules that have not been complied with at all. There, unfortunately, the previous government looked between its fingers, and a black market in the transport industry developed, which is very unfortunate. This means that serious road hauliers experience impossible competition. I had the discussion with the haulage industry before the election about exactly what needs to be done. Now we have put in place the regime whereby those who do not comply with cabotage rules may be fined up to SEK 40 000. Is it that you experience a risk that someone does not intend to pay or otherwise do not behave like a tramp wheel? You lock the wheels, and the truck gets standing there. I hope that is part of putting an end to this.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-363	Madam President, I would like My question concerns compensation for increased costs associated with the identification checks. Region Skåne's geographical location means that the majority of refugees come via Skåne. The introduction of ID controls implies carrier responsibility. There are therefore extra costs for Skånetrafiken, which is run by Region Skåne. Other problems also arise for travellers and commuters, but my question concerns financial compensation. On 4 February, Region Skåne wrote a request to the Government requesting compensation of SEK 15 million per month for the extra costs and reduced revenue due to the ID checks. My questions are: Does the Prime Minister agree that it is reasonable that not only Scanian taxpayers should pay for a national decision on ID checks? Does the government intend in any way to approve Region Skåne's request? There is still no answer, as far as I know. I think it would be reasonable to compensate for this, at least financially.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-366	Madam President, I would like It was important to do this, in order to get things straight. I think we agree on that. After all, this letter has come, and it is then dealt with by the responsible minister and the department together with the region. The discussion is therefore still ongoing, and it is probably better to put the question there so far. I have no answer to the question right now, but work is in progress.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-369	Madam President, I would like I would like to return to the agreement between the EU and Turkey on which the summit is to work on 17 and 18 March. One of the points included in the settlement is the preparation of Turkish membership of the EU. This is happening at the same time as Turkey departs from many of the fundamental rights and freedoms we want to guarantee to people. There is persecution of human rights activists, and at present there is a serious threat to the free press – the state has attacked a large opposition newspaper called Zaman through military and police. My question to the Prime Minister is how we can safeguard the Copenhagen criteria while moving towards Turkey with these negotiations. Do you see us getting tied up somehow by these negotiations, Prime Minister? That's my question.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-372	Madam President, I would like I am concerned about developments in Turkey, as I also expressed in my reply to Jonas Sjöstedt. This applies to many aspects, not least what you mention, Lawen Redar, namely the attacks being made against the media. This has also been pointed out directly to Prime Minister Davutouslu in the deliberations we had on Monday. I did it myself, and several other colleagues did. Should you open chapters in the membership negotiations, they mean an orderly process for what is to be done in order to be considered at all. It is primarily chapters 23 and 24, which concern human rights and democracy, which are crucial in this respect. It is true for Turkey and for all the other countries that want to be part of the European Union that these requirements and criteria have to be met, and there is no shortcut or route. But let us first see if there will be any such negotiations at all.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-375	Madam President and the Prime Minister. Yesterday many politicians and many citizens in Sweden were quite upset, I think. There was a proposal from the Division Committee and I have not yet seen any happy faces. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Government and the Prime Minister intend to push through the proposal or whether it should be done on a voluntary basis. Similarly, I would like to have a comment on Halland's cooperative Social Democrats, who might consider a referendum on this issue. How does the Prime Minister feel about that?
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-377	Madam President, I would like We must realise in Sweden that the county division we have had so far has its roots in the 1600s. Something has happened between the 1600s and 2016 – quite a lot. The previous government completely failed to address this issue. It just waved around, and nothing happened. Some became regions, and others were allowed to be a little later, while some were not allowed to be. It was unclear on what criteria one was given and the other was not given. Now we have an investigation proposal. We wanted to set up the investigation to get a proposal on what it might look like, and now there is the proposal. It's going to be a referral, and there'll be a discussion about it. When the discussion is finished, we will come back and hear how it has gone. What's for, and what's against? What is the problem, and what are opportunities? I think that's a reasonable time, so I shouldn't judge from this now. Now we have a proposal, and let us start discussing it. However, doing something is a good thing.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-380	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Prime Minister about inventions. Inventions carry Sweden forward. Inventions make us a pioneer country in many ways. Unfortunately, however, women are still under-represented when it comes to inventions. Six per cent of the patents signed in Sweden have a woman as their holder. It can't go on like that, absolutely not. There must be a change. It's about women's entrepreneurship. It's about women in senior positions. It's about women's work environment. What will the Prime Minister do to make it more female inventors? Obviously it is not about industrial chancellors, and it is not about industrial councils. These are completely different measures. Nor is it always about more women in technology training, for there must be many more women who have a technology background than the 6% who sign patents. Something else needs to be done. That must be foreshadowed. It has to be borrowed. There must be a positive climate.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-384	Madam President, I would like Yes, and that may be exactly what Margareta Cederfelt listed at the end. I lead the world's first feminist government, and I do so with pride. This means, among other things, that all ministers will have to review how they contribute to gender equality in their different areas. It also means that our draft budgets should be transparent from the point of view of equality. I'd love to take this with me. I don't have any concrete proposals right here and now on how to get more female inventors. However, it is a subject that appeals to me very much, because equality must take place in all areas. Let us then help to find the necessary proposals for this to become a reality. Even in that job, I'm absolutely willing to contribute.
i-e5ecd0bae37d7301-388	I would therefore like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members.
