i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-0	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the President, who accepted this debate on how we can create good conditions for fast-growing growth companies to stay in Sweden. They are the engine of our economy in the future. Sweden's start-up scene and all the tea chb olag that counts have created something unique, something that inspires and something that impresses other countries. In these hubs, innovation environments and creative clusters there are people who have good business ideas, ideas that are scalable and globally viable. But these are also people who take a risk, who dare to bet with hope of success. They work hard, often without pay or the security you have as an employee. It takes respect. In Skövde, entrepreneurs are developing games that have achieved great success internationally, such as the Goat Simulator game from Coffee Stain Studios. In Sundsvall there is Crystal Alarm that gives its users a safer everyday life. In Karlstad there is Speakify that helps new arrivals to learn Swedish. In Malmö there is Hövding, which manufactures bicycle helmets. In Stockholm there are global meeting places such as Start up Grind and SUP46, where entrepreneurs from all over the world gather and help each other become successful. But that the Swedish start-up scene is a success story, that we are now at the forefront, does not mean that our position is unthreated. Swedish startups compete in a global market that is changing incredibly fast. Therefore, access to venture capital must be secured. Companies must be able to attract talent. Startup companies must also be able to offer employees participation in the company in a more competitive way than they are today. We can't lose speed. We can't end up in the wake. That is why the Center Party has initiated this current debate. The government must provide answers to how they want to improve for our fast-growing companies.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Center Party, which has requested this debate, so that we can have a discussion on how to get even more and growing companies in Sverig by. It is a prerequisite for more jobs and for meeting tomorrow's challenges. I have just come from a lunch meeting in Rosenbad, where I met India's IT Minister together with some of the traditional major companies such as Ericsson and Telenor Connexion, but also with Truecaller, one of the highly successful companies on the Indian market. Truecaller has revolutionized India's market and grown enormously. It was a very exciting meeting where we talked about what Annie Lööf mentioned in her introduction – their fascination with how we, as a small country with 10 million inhabitants, have managed to create so many internationally successful companies in this area. The exciting thing is that we have created these companies in several parts of Sweden and in many different industries and sectors – it is not only in one sector that we have come forward. We also have many different actors that create a strong ecosystem in the digital economy. These start-ups challenge prevailing business logic. They streamline, they solve problems, they entertain, they save lives and they develop our traditional industry and business. They are often international from the start and create a huge attraction for Sweden. They are bigger than their sector itself. They affect Swedish business and Sweden in addition to that. I'm thinking about the fintech business. Our banks are challenged from various quarters, not only by Klarna but also by other new payment models and loan operations, such as Lendify and Toborrow, which have found platforms to match capital and investment objects. An incredibly exciting development is taking place for companies' funding opportunities. I'm thinking about life science. Here are Swedish innovators on solutions to some of the greatest challenges of our time. This applies, for example, to improving the efficiency of care. Glionova develops a method against the most common and aggressive form of brain cancer. Swecure develops preventive treatment for allergies. In the education sector, world-leading development is taking place. For example, Schoolido has translated the entire school curriculum into a digital platform that can support teachers, students and parents. When you describe and discuss Swedish technology in different contexts, both internationally and here at home, you often ask yourself why. How can Sweden, with its 10 million inhabitants, not so far from the North Pole, be so successful in digital entrepreneurship? And how can it be that it is only Silicon Valley that manages to produce more billions of new companies per capita? The answer given is often about the Swedish model. We have a secure society with a well-developed well-being that gives all people the courage and security to think freely, create, create and make a reality of their dreams. It is a society where it is okay to fail, where we do not initially choose the winners and who will succeed in the future, but where we provide opportunities for everyone to try their luck and develop according to their conditions, not least through our education system, which has given a lot of people the opportunity to make an educational career and study at universities and colleges. We want to try new things. Through decades, the business community, academia and the public sector have collaborated and thus created the conditions for innovation to become a big company. Reforms such as the Culture and Music School have played a major role in the creative sector. In the digital sector, the home PC reform allowed many families and households to have their own computer at home. Together with broadband expansion and mobile telecommunications networks, this has created a breeding ground and a prerequisite – a unique opportunity for Sweden to be at the forefront of this area. But of course it is also important to see to the needs that our startups meet here and now. The government has therefore since we took office started work to create good conditions for these fast-growing digital companies to become more and grow strong. It is important for the entire digitalisation of Sweden and for the development of our business community. What, then, are the prerequisites for this? We have chosen to focus on three areas that we believe are particularly important in order to grow and make a big difference in the future: skills, capital and international markets. At a time when the Swedish economy is going extremely strong – we have 4 per cent growth, and 90 000 more people go to work compared to election day – a situation arises where there is a shortage of labour in many sectors. This is why the government is doing the biggest upgrade of competence in many years within the framework of the Knowledgelift. We are expanding universities and colleges. We're expanding the university of applied sciences. We also invest in Swedish schools in order to secure the long-term supply of skills. We are making a major investment in capital and finance, which is one of the biggest growth barriers for these companies. We restructure government venture capital to work more actively with private and public capital and make sure that the money makes a difference, especially in those phases where it is difficult to obtain capital. We have expanded the market-based lending business, not least at Almi, which in 2015 increased lending to growing companies by nearly SEK 900 million. We have presented an export strategy for Sweden. There is a group specifically identified, namely the digital companies, which have a different logic and which do not first detour via Norway and Denmark into the international markets, but become "bron globals" from the beginning in order to reach the markets. I think this is the right way to go. We will look at the conditions for skills, capital and growth in international markets. This debate is therefore welcome.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-17	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Center Party for inviting us to discuss the conditions for job creators, especially the fast-growing start-up companies, which account for a large proportion of all the new jobs that are emerging. They are not only responsible for an essential part of the jobs, but are also important for the innovation climate in Sweden, as they affect the dynamics, creativity and development of other industries and other parts of the economy. That we in Sweden should have a start-up scene that is one of the largest in the world after Silicon Valley we can never take for granted. We can lose that position tomorrow. The fact that Swedish fast-growing companies that compete in a global market will continue to have their home field here in Sweden when they become larger and more mature is also no obvious. Companies such as Spotify and Klarna put Sweden on the international map. They've been startups. They have now grown and become more mature companies with many jobs, and they contribute to common welfare. But their home market is not only Sweden, of course, but it is global. They are in a market with sylvass competition. When Spotify's founder recently wrote an open letter to highlight the problems encountered in Sweden, it was a warning signal to take very seriously. The letter was followed up last week by some protesters – if you can put it that way – outside the Riksdag who came to talk to us politicians. Those of us who met them listened to the criticism, namely that policy does not provide sufficient conditions for companies to be competitive. Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of political responsibility here. We Moderates want to take that responsibility, and today we want to give some information to all the innovative companies that are thinking about whether Sweden is really the right place to be to carry out their business. Firstly, we want to introduce a maximum period of 30 days for processing work permits at the Migration Agency. Today, it may take several months for smaller companies to have access to world-leading skills. I recently had the pleasure of visiting the game maker Dice and also King. Major Swedish employers are world leaders in the computer gaming industry. They told us that the gaming industry has only a limited number of senior game developers and programmers available. That's why you need to attract skills from all over the world. However, there are obstacles for companies to take in workers from other countries. One of them is the long and varied processing times of the Finnish Immigration Service. This creates uncertainty for the employer, of course, and for the employee who does not know whether to move to Sweden or not. This is totally unacceptable because access to good skills is so crucial for Swedish fast-growing companies. That is why we want to introduce a 30-day guarantee so that no company that has submitted a correct application will have to wait more than a month. Secondly, we need more generous conditions for employee options. Most entrepreneurs who start new businesses work at an early stage long hours with low pay. At the same time, it is precisely in the new companies that the desire is greatest to grow. But there are problems with growing. It is not simply to give a market salary to a key person in a small start-up. Why should an engineer who has a well-paid job in an established company choose to work in a small company where the risk is much greater? One way to attract staff is to use employee options. They are heavily taxed in Sweden today, harder than in other countries. In order to facilitate recruitment, we Moderates want to make it easier and more competitive to offer employee incentive programmes and partnerships. We want to see more generous conditions for employee options, and we are prepared to consider different solutions to promote entrepreneurship while always taking into account and taking into account basic tax law principles. One thing is clear: we need to make a change. Thirdly, Mr President, we want to strengthen the education system by introducing programming and more mathematics. Together with the parties of the Alliance, the Moderates have carried out several reforms to strengthen the school knowledge line. Among other things, an extra hour of mathematics a week has been introduced at both low and intermediate stages. We want to go further and introduce an hour of extra mathematics a week even in high school and also introduce programming from year 1. This is how we can equip our young people for today's and, above all, tomorrow's labour market while at the same time facilitating the provision of skills in important sectors. Mr President, I would like to Our information today is some of the information that can provide the conditions for fast-growing companies. Now the government also needs to take the warning signals from Spotify and many other companies seriously. Jobs are moving to Sweden. Jobs should not move from Sweden.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-28	Mr President, I would like to Today, following a request from the Center Party, we are debating the conditions for more fast-growing companies. The discussion on the business environment is always welcome. The Swedish Democrats have placed great emphasis on these issues and presented broad reform programmes for both Swedish industrial policy and Swedish SME policy. With regard to fast-growing innovative companies – which today's debate is primarily about – it is worth pointing out that it is often about companies that grow up in the wake of our industry. Similarly, it is important to point out that such things as taxes, health regulations, rotation rules and bureaucracy are crucial factors for the survival of growing companies in international competition. This applies, of course, to other things, such as the existence of venture capital. Here, the Swedish Democrats have a clear reform agenda to simplify and increase the opportunities to make a profit. One of the reforms we in the SD want to see to facilitate new and growing companies is better conditions for employee options, which is one of the proposals in our industrial programme. Giving a partnership in the company to the employee in exchange for a lower salary can bring clear benefits. On the one hand, the start-up phase can be cheaper by recruiting the right skills early, and on the other hand participation can motivate the employees. The conditions for employee stock options are not so good today, and the Swedish Democrats are awaiting concrete proposals in this area from the government. Mr President, I would like to It may be interesting to discuss the Center Party's policy for the business environment in Sweden. The Center Party – who would like to profile itself as a party for entrepreneurs – is, as I said, the party that has requested this debate. Perhaps there will be a great deal of wisdom here today about proposals for reforms to strengthen Sweden. I mean, however, that the Center Party has quite little to beat its chest for. If I had been an entrepreneur myself, the Center Party would have been a long way down on the list of parties I prioritised based on the role of entrepreneur. In spite of rhetoric, few parties are actually acting so destructively for the nation and for the business climate. The Center Party – or former Bond League – began as an interest party for farmers and rural voters. But since the peasants today are relatively few, it is hardly remarkable that the party has sought new electoral groups. But what is more remarkable is the patchwork of ideological contradictions which today make up the Center Party. The core voters in rural areas are often to be regarded as universal conservatives, while attempts to break into the big cities have been made with extreme neoliberal ideas seasoned with a number of core issues directly from the extreme left. A few years ago, when the Center Party was to try to innovate, the debate on ideas on polygamy, free immigration and the abolition of compulsory schooling came to an end. I can say with certainty that there were many general-conservative rural voters and farmers who felt significantly alienated. The peoples of reality rarely have much to do with this kind of neo-liberal fluke. Mr President, I would like to In their eagerness to be the green voice of the right, the Center Party has allowed the Green Party and various activist environmental organisations to define what is a good environmental policy. Instead of fighting against the worst and most obvious stupidities, the problem formulations have been adopted. The difference in madness against the Green Party, for example in terms of climate policy, is fine. Despite Sweden's small size and the fact that Sweden already has the lowest carbon dioxide emissions per capita in the industrialised world, Swedish companies as well as citizens will have to be loaded with perhaps the most expensive and far-reaching climate policy in the world. It is hardly something that benefits the Swedish business environment. Rather, this means additional charges that drive Swedish industrial jobs out of the country. Furthermore, the Center Party has entered into an alliance with the Left in energy policy, which means that the Swedish energy system is being destroyed in a raging tempo. Sweden's traditionally stable, affordable and safe base power is replaced by large subsidies of unreliable weather-dependent energy types that risk forcing the Swedish base industry to move out of the country. Is this a business-friendly policy? I don't think so. The Center Party is a party that rarely avoids large and anti-competitive subsidy programmes to force political change. The electricity certification system that seems so destructive to me is closely linked to the Center. The same applies to the plans to introduce the so-called bonus – the Malus system for cars, which is a reversed Robin Hood tax where less well-off rural people who need the car for work commuting should be involved in paying for the city dwellers' expensive Teslor. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say something about the branch of trader called farmers. Although there is a far-reaching agricultural crisis in Sweden, it was with the Center Party Minister for Rural Affairs as well as the Minister for the Environment that further major tax increases were introduced on diesel. Sweden went from a high-level European perspective to one of Europe's highest levels. In a country where it is perfectly possible to produce food that is both environmentally sound and otherwise of good quality, this is how it is done. Reality sometimes surpasses the poem.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-40	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to begin by thanking the Centre for the initiative for this debate, which is important for all of us. I am happy to talk about the Swedish companies and their conditions, and I welcome the chance now to bump and wet our thoughts and ideas on this. A thriving business community is a prerequisite for Sweden to develop and feel good. It is no secret that SMEs are the key to new jobs. Sweden needs a policy that makes it easier for companies to develop and grow. Let me tell you about Jakob who works at Spotify. He's about 35 years old, and he has two children. He is a media engineer – an education he received for free at the Royal Institute of Technology. He lives with his family in a new built rental in central Stockholm. When the children were young, he was on parental leave for almost a year. Often it is Jakob who leaves the children for preschool and school and then takes the subway to work. Then I want to tell you a little bit about Caroline. She works at Google in New York. But now she's moving home. Why? I got it. Yes, she is expecting a child, and she wants parental leave in Sweden. She wants to be able to continue her career and know that the child is in safe hands at preschool when she goes to work. She wants the child to grow up in a safe environment with clean air. Why am I telling you this now? I do it to show that companies are part of society. Spotify and other service companies depend entirely on the creativity and skills of their employees. They fight for it with others. In order to attract these talents, it is important to offer a high salary and stimulating tasks. But I'm sure it's at least as important, and I'm sure it weighs at least as much, for employees to have a working life outside of work. They want good schools and preschools for their children. They want to be able to take parental leave, they want a functioning healthcare system and they want good and functioning public transport. They want to live in places where it's safe and clean. Some go out into nature, and others are drawn to the city. Let us therefore talk today about how to build a society that creates the best possible conditions for both companies and their employees – not only here in Stockholm but throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to In order for companies to grow in the long term in Sweden, we need to modernise society in a way that makes it possible to have confidence in the future and long-term planning. The government and the Green Party have taken a number of important steps in creating a modern sustainable society. We invest in broadband throughout the country, modern transport and renewable energy. At the same time, through the urban environment agreements, we ensure that this goes hand in hand with the development of public transport. Good communications are a prerequisite for jobs and development throughout the country. Of course, not being able to offer employees an opportunity to get a roof over their heads means that it becomes more difficult to recruit. Therefore, I am proud of the housing initiative that the government is currently implementing with a total of SEK 6 billion that will lead to new rentals. The government has cross-block talks to create long-term guidelines for the housing market. The Government is also working on reviewing building and appeal rules to see if it is possible to simplify them. During the eight years in power of the Alliance, housing construction was basically stagnant. The small Attefallshusen are charming and certainly welcome to the homeowners who want the grandchildren to visit more often. But there is hardly any cure for the large housing shortage that exists in Sweden today. In fact, the bourgeois government made a number of decisions that have had a negative impact on the housing market. Several major reforms were implemented that contributed to less mobility and low housing construction. For example, the property tax was removed without other changes in the housing market. In Stockholm and elsewhere in the country, bourgeois government chanced out the commons' tenancy rights. The Center Party's solution to this problem is more free renting on apartments. But even today it is possible to put higher prices on newly built rental apartments. Jakob, who I told you about at the beginning, pays 18 000 SEK a month for his newly built four-bedroom apartment in central Stockholm. Much more than that, I don't think it's reasonable. Education is an important part of a sustainable construction of society. Here, too, the government delivers. With Minister for Education Fridolin at the head, the government is making major investments in schools, Komvux and higher education to meet new challenges where the increased digitalisation of society is one. The Swedish National Agency for Education works with a national IT and digitisation strategy for the education system. Developing how programming should get into education in the best possible way is also a topical issue.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-51	Mr President, I would like to After the introduction of the Swedish Democrats, we can see that they have a business policy that ends after 52 seconds. Enough about that. Spaltmeter has been written about how Sweden has become the mecca of the start-up stage. Analyses have been made about how it is that it is only Silicon Valley in the United States that has more so-called unicorns per capita than Stockholm. The most important ingredient – the decisive factor – is, of course, the entrepreneur. Entrepreneurs have dared to bet, have failed at times, have risen again and have succeeded. Our openness to the world around us, an accessible internet and our language skills in English have been important pieces of the puzzle. But without the entrepreneurs and their ability to offer the market a service at exactly the right time – without their timing – the Swedish start-up scene would not have been where it is today. This is what makes Sweden unique. These are our success factors. The task of politics must therefore be to ensure that entrepreneurs do not lay hooks. Our focus must be to remove obstacles and create the right conditions. Entrepreneurs will continue to be creative, develop their business ideas and think globally from the moment the ideas are born. But there is nothing to say that they must do so in Sweden, but vice versa. If the business environment is not good enough, there are incentives for them to move elsewhere. We must create good conditions for companies to start, develop and want to stay in Sweden. London, New York, Berlin, Silicon Valley – for these companies, the world is already open. The warning bells that have started to ring must be taken seriously by politicians. Companies may be forced to leave the country, which not only leads to job loss but also to drains on skills, innovation and creativity. Instead of being at the forefront, we will be left behind. Mr President, I would like to National laws and systems must be changed and measured with those of other countries. Geographical limits do not apply to companies that deliver, grow and produce in the cloud. Change is therefore needed in the following areas. Firstly, capital must be available to start-up companies. It is crucial for startups to grow and develop. We need more business angels. It must be profitable and attractive to invest capital in early stage companies. Secondly, we need to strengthen digital knowledge in schools – both among teachers and among students. The foundation for future employees and founders of start-ups is largely added to school. Therefore, programming must become a natural feature of the lessons. We need more teachers with knowledge in programming, and interest in math, NO and technology needs to increase. Thirdly, we need more free renting and simpler building rules. The government must leave its subsidy system and stop putting money in the pockets of developers in Stockholm and thus contribute to higher building costs. Instead, efforts are needed to make a real difference. More housing is needed, and they are needed quickly. That is why we need to relax the rules and requirements. We need to change the appeal process so that matters cannot be pulled in the long run, have temporary building permits, make it easier to rebuild your home and sublet, and ensure that there are public transport and robust roads throughout the country so that people can easily get to and from work. Fourthly, the taxation of employee stock options must be changed. This is something that the Center Party alone has been pushing for a long time and for which we have set aside funds in our budget. I welcome the fact that more and more people are embracing the need for clear reform. Getting the opportunity to own a part of the company is important as a complement to salary, but it also creates greater participation in the company and is an incentive to stay. Now the government has the investigator's proposal on the table. This is a proposal that Mikael Damberg has the opportunity to change in a way that suits the tech companies better. I hope that Mrs Damberg will take this opportunity to greatly improve the current proposal. Use the UK as a model, include more industries and make the proposal less narrow, so we can compete with other equal countries. The competition for talent is fierce. Every day, every hour and every minute there is a struggle for the sharpest talents, those who can lift the company to new levels, who have the right know-how and skills for the start-up company to grow. An effective system of employee stock options also provides rings on the water. Success breeds success. Synergies arise when capital is released and can be used to start and build new businesses in turn. That's what the success of Silicon Valley is coming. Fifthly, in the face of simple entry companies! An idea and a mobile phone should be what it takes to start a business. These companies shall be subject to a flat-rate tax of 25 per cent up to a turnover of SEK 250 000. In this way, the regulatory burden and bureaucracy are minimised so that more people can start businesses and use the benefits of the collaborative economy. Mr President, I would like to My concern is that the government continues to treat companies as it has always done. There is a warm talk of small businesses, but they continue with their half-measures and their tax-enhancing policies – contrary to what fast-growing companies need. I hope that Mikael Damberg realises that companies can easily move and that they do not have to operate in Sweden under our laws and taxes. When, Mikael Damberg, does the government abandon its anti-growth policy?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-66	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to begin by thanking the initiators of this current debate on the conditions for more fast-growing companies in Sweden. In headlines and debates held in the media, it may sound like Sweden would be a disaster country for new start-ups. But in fact Stockholm, mentioned here, is the second best city in the world for startups. It is only Silicon Valley that has produced more companies per capita that are valued at $1 billion, so-called unicorns. When you talk about innovative companies with a potential to grow quickly, it is often about companies in the IT industry. I have enjoyed reading the start-up manifesto which I believe is one of the reasons why the Center Party initiated this debate. There the writers say that four out of five jobs are created by small businesses – and that's right, that's right. What they do not note, however, is that these large companies, over which they are a bit ralliing, run the Swedish economy. Without these companies, Sweden would be quite weak. In fact, without companies working with real resources, service companies could not exist for much longer either. It should be remembered that renewable resources in the form of food, forest products and also our high-tech basic industries that process minerals and forest products are the basis for the rest. Then we should not forget the car industry as well as two truck manufacturers who rank as some of the most prominent in the world. Wherever you turn, they're there. Without these basic foundations, many service companies would not have the platforms of prosperity in our country at all. We've raked the manage for them. What we would need more of are companies processing natural resources to the maximum. Here I would like to highlight residential construction in wood and modules as a great example where rural areas are connected with cities in an extremely good way. The truth is also that without the northern forests, minerals and our expanded Norrlands rivers, Sweden would not be able to boast how well we have managed from various financial crises. I am convinced that whatever government we have had in recent decades, our basic industry and forests have benefited us well. Of course, Sweden as a business-friendly and modern country will look at the challenges that these fast-growing companies highlight. I am convinced that these companies are important and on the rise in our country and that they will increasingly be integrated into industry-related tasks. However, believing that tax rules alone can determine how to solve the recruitment of skilled workers or how to make venture capital available is naive. I think that one must probably also form an overall picture of society where employees in these companies should spend the time when they are not at work. As I started with, Sweden is a good country to open up companies, run companies and even expand companies in. Then not everything can be disastrous, as is often pointed out. There are many things that this start-up manifesto highlights that you can of course look at. Some things are good, but some things really make me worried and disappointed. For example, regional policy is defined as something that should not be addressed or that it should not be linked to state risk capital. It is completely incomprehensible, at least for me trying to pursue a policy where the whole of Sweden will live. Let me remind you that Sweden has this prosperity where education is provided free of charge to all children, child benefit is granted, parental insurance exists, care is well-developed and almost free of charge and many common social benefits exist, which many other countries lack. Then consider how we have been able to have basically the same conditions for children who come from less well-off families so that they have also been able to educate themselves and realize their dreams. That is what the Left Party wants to protect: a society where everyone should be given the conditions for a good education and where we stick together in a common society that becomes stable and that also lasts in worse times. Here we could mention countries that are listed as possible countries of refuge for these start-ups. The truth is that they lack many of our social benefits that make us strong and attractive in a different way. We have built up these benefits together with employees and companies. The Left Party naturally welcomes the government's declared ambition that Sweden will become the world's best state for start-up companies. But here the whole picture of society should be painted on this map. What I can agree with in the manifesto, as I mentioned earlier, is, of course, the lack of housing. The Left Party has highlighted this as a priority for the whole development of the welfare society, whether these are rapidly growing companies or existing companies. The fact that some forms of business could slide on a shrimp sandwich can bear in mind before such proposals receive support, at least from the Left Party.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-80	Mr President, I would like to Free enterprise is a liberal idea. It is about people being able to realize themselves, their ideas and their dreams. Free enterprise is about jobs, but it's just as much about creating welfare. Every time a company closes or moves abroad, it is also a loss for our social welfare society, for school pupils, for health care and for the care of our elderly. That is why social liberals are inspired by the idea of free enterprise. The age of globalisation is here. The age of digitalisation is here. It's progressing at a raging rate. International competition is stinging hard. Mediocre ambitions will not be enough. Social democrats who dream their way back to the 20th century do not follow these developments. Mr President, I would like to One click on the computer is all it takes to move a tech company from one country to the next. Spotify, Klarna, Skype, Mojang is not an industrial company that derives its value from the Swedish forests or mines. Their business idea does not fit in any factory buildings with chimneys. They are formed in the heads of creators and are realized in technological innovations. Their natural resources are people's ideas. Their work cannot be packed in a cardboard box and sent with SJ. Their work is stored in the cyber clouds. Their success is based on the ability to recruit the best talents in the world. We have talked a lot about Spotify, which started ten years ago. It was young Swedes with an idea that you could listen to all the world's music on your mobile phone. Today, the company is worth SEK 75 billion, just as much as Skanska is worth, but Skanska has had a hundred years. But now there is a risk that Spotify will push the button and move parts of its business abroad. Sweden risks Brain Drain, if we do not wake up in time. And one of the most important reasons, Mikael Damberg, is the high taxes on success that Sweden has. These are the same treasures that once drove Ingvar Kamprad out of Sv erige, and Spotify may become the Ikea of the 21st century in this unfortunate regard. Mr President, I would like to Jantelagen is widespread in Sweden, but unfortunately completely dominant within the government party Social Democrats. It's okay with companies that bring taxes to the state, but successful entrepreneurs don't give the Social Democrats much for. With the world's highest marginal taxes, successful entrepreneurs are combated. For start-ups to be able to establish themselves, they need to be able to recruit skilled people who dare to take the risk of leaving a secure career in one of the old corporate giants. They weigh the career job against the risk of building a company that may not exist in a few years' time because it is a big chance or risk-taking. One way to reward risk taking is to offer options that can in future be converted into shares and ownership in the company. It is a very common way in fast-growing companies. We from the Liberals want to see a substantial reduction in the tax on options in start-ups, and today we are presenting the most far-reaching proposal that someone in Sweden has presented to such a large tax reform. We want to remove employers' contributions and we want everyone in a company to be able to take part in the options. Over time, an increasing proportion of the value will be taxed as capital income, and eventually they will be taxed at the full value. Instead, the government is taxing away those who believe in their own ideas. Mr President, I would like to My call to Mikael Damberg is: the proposal of the investigation is completely inadequate, and it should be thrown into the trash. Mr President, I would like to It is an anti-business policy pursued by the Social Democrats. It strikes at the very core of the modern welfare state, at free enterprise and at our belief in affirming development. We Liberals are looking to the future while the Social Democracies are still in the past. In the 90's, they wanted to ban satellite dishes. Today, it is the taxi company Uberpop that is to be punished. Instead of adapting policies, legislation and rules to technical progress, those who are not left yesterday can leave Sweden. Startup companies are now at risk of leaving Sweden if we do nothing radical about the conditions. Then they build prosperity somewhere else in the world. My call to the government is to put an end to this dinosaur policy! Go for the future!
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-93	Mr President, I would like to To see something that is not there and create something new to fill that void is innovative entrepreneurship, and it is a beautiful thing. Entrepreneurship drives society forward. Better products and services create value that generates jobs and revenues to those in the company and to us jointly, to our welfare. Therefore, it is so important that innovative companies can start, grow and stay in Sweden and that people find it worthwhile. Starting a business and developing ideas are crucial for our country's future growth and opportunities. Then it is worrying that recently started innovative growth companies are experiencing concerns. As the Minister for Economic Affairs rightly said, they are international from the start and can thus also easily have their base in many different countries. It is also worrying that their specific problems are added to a significantly reduced overall nutrient climate. The government is hitting hard with the tax club on jobs and companies. You take in tens of billions in increased charges on jobs and entrepreneurship, and then you give back tens of millions in export strategies, innovation captions and Team Sweden. It's not bad things in itself, but it's a bit like garnishing a ruling princess cake with a new layer of sweet marzipan, and then marketing it as new and as good as before. It gives a bad aftertaste, Mr President. Much has happened over the past decade – and also back in time – which lays the foundation for Sweden being a relatively good country to engage in growth entrepreneurship in. Major government investment in research and training has been made, the introduction of investor deductions, more cooperation plus larger incubators and systematic tax on jobs and businesses. M a more, not less, is needed for us to cope with the competition from the Bay Area in the United States, from Berlin and from London. We have been able to read about the lock calls from 10 Downing Street aiming for startups in Sweden to let the moving class go to London. If any of the government parties or the Left Party had been in place last week – I don't think any of them were, but correct me if I'm wrong – when a series of entrepreneurs from Stockholm's tech scene conducted a friendly protest, you would have been able to hear about three areas that were highlighted time and again, and it wasn't urban environment agreements or re-imposed property taxes that were called for. Nor were there any shrimp sandwiches, but these people work hard around the clock with their business ideas. They don't expect shrimp sandwiches. On the other hand, they highlighted three areas: the housing situation, in particular the lack of decently centrally located rentals, the possibility of attracting key staff with option programmes rather than high wages and the application of labour immigration which creates unnecessary uncertainty and sometimes has quite remarkable consequences. Firstly, it is clear that the government's housing policy is not enough. Of course, more rental apartments are being built now than in a long time, but it is the result of a long series of reforms that the Alliance carried out and of investigations that were then set up. When the policy now needs to take the next step, the government has basically only one proposal, and it is old-fashioned building subsidies – subsidies that not even the companies that will receive the subsidies believe in. Secondly, the opportunities for taxing employee stock options from start-up growth companies are currently too low. The investigation presented is too narrow. It is true that this proposal would provide opportunities for smaller startups at an early stage. But the restrictions are all the more, and companies that have grown a little bit are excluded. Therefore, the investigation must be completed so that a broader proposal can be made. It must also be said that social democratic fiscal policy contributes to further tensions in the tax system, for the difference between capital and labour is now further widening. More people will pay more in government taxes. The job tax deduction is to be reduced in the case of certain income. This makes it more difficult to design the taxation of employee options in a reasonable way but also directly more difficult for these companies to compete for example for engineers in a global market. Thirdly, Sweden's basically good regulations for labour migration should be a huge advantage in this context, especially in a situation where the visa regime in the United States is an increasing problem for startups in California. But obviously the application is lacking. We have seen hair-traveling examples of how people who have built a future in Sweden are expelled on formal grounds that seem bizarre in this context. The late Christian Democrat Hardy Hedman pushed us to introduce a general clause on common sense in public administration when the application of a regulatory framework is clearly contrary to its intentions. Pending this, however, we need to review the regulatory framework, but the responsible ministers do not seem to want to do anything about it. In this particular debate, it is particularly strange that people are expelled because jobs have been advertised via Linkedin – an innovative growth company that has put the world at its feet in terms of job provision. In addition to these three issues, there are, of course, issues relating to the innovation climate and the supply of venture capital. On this I will come back later. I am content to state right now that the government has a serious homework to do to get more companies to start, stay and grow in Sweden.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-106	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the contributions! First, one can reflect a little on the tone of anti-growth policies. Sweden currently has a growth rate of 4%. It's about twice as much growth as the United States. It is about twice the growth rate of Germany and about twice the growth rate of the United Kingdom. There are 90 000 more people going to work every day now compared to election day. We see a development where exports for the first time in eight years draw the Swedish economy, which is very gratifying. I read in Dagens Industri, I think it was yesterday, that a professor at Jönköping University made the assessment that for the first time perhaps ever in modern times the companies start moving home production to Sweden rather than moving production out of Sweden. Let's see if that's the case. It is a foundation for the smart-industrial strategy that is about taking advantage of the digitalization opportunities and actually moving home production to Sweden. But all of this suggests that we are doing something very right in Sweden in this situation, and with such a growth position as we have in Sweden right now, it is bottlenecks that become the big growth barrier. Then you have to make increased investments, and this government does. I will do some reflections on this debate, because it feels almost a bit dizzy. Warning bells are starting to ring, they say. But where have you been for the last ten years? To be honest, you were in the government for eight years. Was the issue of housing construction and rental rights not on the table under the previous government? The issue of employee stock options was, frankly, discussed quite a few years during your reign. With regard to the digitisation of schools, I have had some debates with the former Minister of Education on this subject. We must therefore consider our own responsibilities, but I think it is good that we now have a discussion on how we are moving forward. When it comes to rental rights in Stockholm, it is clear that I am particularly provoked by that discussion. After all, the former bourgeois rule in Stockholm succeeded in reducing the number of tenancy rights by 21,000 by converting tenancy rights into tenant-owners. Thank you for the fact that it is more difficult for entrepreneurs to find rental apartments in Stockholm if you have converted rental apartments into residential apartments! In addition, 80 to 90 per cent of the new dwellings actually built in Stockholm were residential units. Now the government is making the biggest investment in housing policy in 20 years, where we target support and incentives for those who build rental apartments with decent rents and also have incentives for the municipalities that develop housing land, because the housing issue is a major growth barrier around Sweden. On the issue of option, I think that Annie Lööf has written some interesting articles where she has said that she was alone in the bourgeois government to think that this was an important issue, and therefore it took such time, and it is only noted that the government has not changed the investigation directives. After all, it is your investigator and investigator who has presented a proposal which is now on the table and on which everyone can have their views. I am probably more inclined to actually listen to some of the bourgeois parties thinking about how to look at this proposal and see what constructive views you have. Here come the Liberals and say: Throw everything in the trash! It is also a message to this sector in the future. Is it providing long-term rules for growing companies? I am waiting very hard for the referral points that are to come now to see what you think about this proposal and whether it is right to proceed with it. Some debaters say that we could have an American tax system in Sweden. You can have that, but then you have to have an American welfare system as well. I have not understood that this is where we are going, but we will find a system in Sweden that fits Swedish conditions and that also manages the financing of the large investments, not least in knowledge that we have to do to meet the needs that exist. Now I did not have time for all the questions in this speech, so I will have to come back to the next.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-118	Mr President, I would like to Let me just say that Sweden is doing well in many ways, and I want to share what both the Green Party and the Left Party are lifting up: Sweden is fantastic! There are many pull factors that make you want to be in Sweden. We have good parental insurance, a good preschool and much more. However, I did not think that we should use our time just to praise Sweden right now and here, because the debate is about what obstacles we can overcome for these growth companies. The economy is going well. Yes, it is. Export companies are under pressure, Swedish households are consuming more than ever, and this is largely due to the Alliance's policy that has given more people more in their wallets. It may be good to remind the government and Mikael Damberg that it is only 4 1⁄2 months that this government's budget has applied. We are here to talk about obstacles, I think, and what obstacles do we see more? What obstacles do the Spotify founders who wrote this letter see? Some are about taxation and tax policy. I can only remind the listeners that there is a huge difference between the government's rhetoric and government policy. The government and Minister for Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg are happy to talk about strategies, industrial chancellors, innovation captions and million-dollar investments. And it doesn't have to be at all wrong with these million-dollar ventures; that's not my point. But the truth is that for every penny that you choose to go for business promotion, you will take back SEK 50 in the form of increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. The Institute estimates that the jobs could be at least 15 000 – 20 000 more if it were not for government policy. In total, the government, and also the Left Party, which is a support party here, spends 800 million by 2019 on various initiatives in the business sector. At the same time, however, you are raising taxes by 154 billion by 2020, most of which are against jobs and growth. Swedish startups and other fast growing companies therefore have reason to worry. Why should they trust the minister's promise when the government has so far given with one hand and taken so much more with the other? Finally, I would like to ask Mikael Damberg once again: are the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government prepared to say yes to a guarantee for everyone? This is not about a sour cream file, it is about all companies having a maximum of 30 days to obtain a work permit if you have submitted a correct application to the Migration Agency. Is the government prepared to say yes to more generous rules for employee stock options? Is the government prepared to invest in one hour more mathematics a week for secondary school students and introduce programming as a subject for equipping our children and for growth companies and other companies to have the skills they so badly need in the future? Once again, Mr President, jobs are moving to Sweden. Jobs should not move from Sweden. Then we need to tear down even more obstacles, not be satisfied.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-126	Mr President, I would like to I would like to use my second speech to discuss the effects of immigration policy on the Swedish business environment. As I said earlier, the Center Party – which has therefore requested today's debate – is in favour of the policy of open borders, where free immigration is the long-term objective. As far as ideas about free immigration are concerned, it is a track you can say a great deal about, not least linked to the conditions for entrepreneurship in Sweden. As long as I have been politically active, the Center Party has been one of the parties at the forefront of a great reception. It has, as it were, been a political end in itself, where it must cost whatever it wants. It is likely that it has been highly aware that a large population is incompatible with the Swedish welfare state. Perhaps that is precisely why the issue has been pushed so hard. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has also basically got what it wanted. The Swedish border has long been more or less open to all-gender fortune seekers and immigrants of various kinds. Sweden has thus been flooded by people from less prosperous societies where education and culture are often far behind the Western world. For decades, Sweden has been like the boiling frog where unemployment, housing shortages and falling school scores slowly but still escalated. Last year, however, the dams completely broke down. In a single year, 164 000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden. The costs are running out, and the proposals for new tax increases are now being pushed on the slopes. Only municipalities and county councils are estimated to have to raise taxes by SEK 45 billion. This is happening at the same time as the state is now being forced to borrow tens of billions just to meet the costs of the reception system in the coming years, and this is happening in the midst of a boom. A smoking recent report from Linnaeus University states that after seven years in the country, a refugee immigrant is still a net cost to society with an average of approximately SEK 95 000 per person per year. This is, of course, linked to the exorbitant unemployment of non-European immigrants despite a long time in the country. Suddenly, hundreds of thousands of people – who have never paid a crown in taxes in Sweden – will also have a roof over their heads. It has thus created an acute and far-reaching housing shortage in Sweden. It is a housing shortage that has arisen primarily over the last ten years under the Alliance's open-border policy, which also continued until last autumn. As has already been said in the debate, the acute housing shortage has become an obstacle for many Swedish companies when recruiting. Even if they find the right skills, they may fail in recruitment because housing cannot be found. Mr President, I would like to Many parties, with the knife to their throats, made a historic turn in the autumn when reality caught up and the costs began to run seriously for immigration. However, the de facto Center Party remains in the barricades and wants to restore and further liberalise the policy leading up to today's crisis. A general approach is certainly not the answer to either companies or Sweden's future challenges, on the contrary. Labour immigration can be very important for many companies. But then it must be a means-tested exercise focusing on high-skilled excellence. Properly trained staff and politicians who look at Sweden's challenges are what Sweden needs right now. It's time to throw the politics of open borders into the trash basket, and the Center Party has here passed the best predate.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-137	Mr President, I would like to Let me get back to school. Digitalisation is increasingly affecting the labour market, and when the school is going to train both tomorrow's employers and tomorrow's workers, digital skills are becoming increasingly important. Programming is a new area of knowledge that places new demands on the education system. The Government has given the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop a national IT strategy for the school system and propose changes to the steering document to clarify the school's mission and strengthen pupils' digital skills and innovation capacity. The place of programming in teaching is part of that mission. The final proposal will be submitted to the government on 30 June. It is now out for a referral, and the last day is tomorrow. We look forward to it with excitement. This will require schools to invest in providing teachers with the necessary further training to keep up with rapid developments. There are many initiatives both within and outside the school that contribute. It is, for example, the SETT fair, which is run by the Vice-Chancellor's Academy, and Kodcentrum, which works to introduce children and young people to programming and digital creation. Many teachers also run their own projects at their schools and in their teaching that leads the development forward. Another important part of the education chain is our universities and colleges, which provide skills throughout the country and often in cooperation with local businesses. It is therefore important to safeguard higher education throughout the country. The government wants newly arrived people in Sweden to quickly enter the open labour market. It is therefore of great importance to identify what is relevant to the individual's education, experience and interests. There is a shortage of labour in many sectors. They are now being helped with their skills supply when the Public Employment Service and the industries together create fast track to facilitate the entry of new arrivals into the labour market. Many different fast tracks are developed. It is one of the things that is now being looked at in health care and other strong industries that are needed to make a society work. We know that 500 chefs are missing in Sweden. It is not possible to think of this as the first job that lacks employment only for people. The Green Party wants to change society in several ways. Some things can go quickly, and some things will and should take time to make it a good long-term solution. The Green Party has long pushed the issue of employee stock options and looks forward to the proposal becoming a reality. With the help of employee options, key employees can be compensated by being made partners rather than being given higher salaries. The proposal on employee stock options has been examined and is now being consulted. We will listen to the comments that are coming.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-146	Mr President, I would like to Last year, I went to Silicon Valley. There are plenty of capital, ownership taxes are low and start-ups are numerous. There's Google one of the flagships. There's entrepreneurship in the blood. The site has a strong attraction for talent and companies from all over the world. Last week I visited Sundsvall. At Science Park at the university, I know that creativity is bursting. There your fingers stomp against the keyboard for many long hours. That's where ideas fly into the air. It offers innovative solutions to customers from all over the world. There are two places located on different continents, and there are two very different places. One has a population of the million class, and the other has about 100,000 inhabitants in the municipality. But what unites Silicon Valley and Sundsvall is their start-up cluster where there is a climate, a culture, that makes you dare to test your ideas. For the entrepreneurs in Sundsvall, geography plays as little role as for them in Linköping, Umeå and Malmö. Today, businesses are born globally, not locally. It's their business idea, their business idea, that counts. The important thing is their visions, courage and technical know-how. It is, as in Silicon Valley, the building of successful technology hubs. I'm not the only one to spend every day with Spotify or get in touch with Klarna every month. Success stories like these also began once as small, but they grew rapidly larger. The Center Party wants more people to have the opportunity to make that particular trip. We want to create the right conditions for next generation tech companies and pave the way for Sweden's next major digital success actually to remain here, because it is from one of Sweden's different start-up scenes they will come. The Government aims to make Stockholm the best stage for start-up companies. I think that is a good objective. But the government must not forget all the companies that exist outside Stockholm. Regional innovation systems with incubators and science parks are incredibly important for regional development and global concrete power. About 700 tech startups are located outside the capital. In Sundsvall, entrepreneurs highlight the same problems that I encounter with entrepreneurs in Stockholm, most recently last night. It shows that this is not a big city phenomenon. Entrepreneurship is spread all over the country, as well as access to capital and talent, and lack of digital knowledge in school, ask estimates of options, hassles – all that – meet entrepreneurs regardless of geographical location. The corporate structure, Mr President, is different now from what it did 15 to 20 years ago. Large companies and industry have been complemented by many smaller companies. As politicians, we must keep up with the times and pave the way for the new enterprise – the knowledge-intensive, the high-tech, the entrepreneurial. We have to deal with the future, or we'll be overtaken by those who do. The US is already well on its way – Europe is being challenged; Sweden is being challenged. That's why the business environment is so important. That's why we need to stay on track, develop politics and make Sweden attractive to investors as well as tech companies. Less than that is the task. For a government that aims to have Europe's lowest unemployment in just a few years' time, this must be the top priority. Every job counts, every job is needed, and it is in the small and growing companies throughout the country that they are created. I ask Mikael Damberg once again: When will the government stop using Sweden's entrepreneurs as an ATM to just pick taxes from? That's exactly what the government does.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-158	Mr President, I would like to I said something that I saw many reigning on. This is about the shrimp sandwich. What I said was that no single company form should be able to trust that only that company form has different rules. I think it is good to do what the Minister for Economic Affairs mentions – that you look at the rules. How can we work with employee options, for example, so that solutions can be found? We're not against it. However, the fact that it would only affect a company form is something that, at least, I cannot see as fortunate. As for the math hour that the Moderates highlight as very important, I begin to wonder who would have needed it. The Alliance has ruled for eight years and thinks that now everything is going in the wrong direction. It puts the drum on when it comes to taxes and thinks that they only hit entrepreneurs, that they are only to the detriment and that they scare companies so that they move their business. But what really happened between 2009 and 2011? At that time, 13 per cent of companies with more than 100 employees in Sweden moved some of their operations abroad. There was probably a reason for that, but one can hardly blame the Social Democrats, this government or the Left Party for it. It was 6,200 jobs that Sweden lost because of moving abroad. There were certainly companies that saw other things that made them choose to move their business, but you can't run politics and always have a different agenda. It's the same in municipal politics – there's always some entrepreneur who says: If you make this decision, I'll move somewhere else, away from your municipality. You cannot pursue politics and have a vision of how to build a society if you have these contrasts in the picture. It's gonna be hard. To focus on a single company and say that now they are going away and that nothing can be done in terms of reforms or other things – it leads to a strange situation, I would say, for the government of a country. We are talking about service companies. I agree that these forms of enterprise are important. We're gonna take part in the fight, too, for them. They are important for our industry, and I think they will be even more important. But it is strange, at least I think, that it is said that it is these companies that should be protected because they are crucial for the Swedish economy. I guess that's not the case. We have a basic industry, and v i has the other industries, which means that they also have services. In Sweden we have also had a way to educate young people who have been successful for us. Regardless of what you look at, culture school or whatever, you can see that it is those pieces that have made us succeed in many ways. I am proud that we have had such an educational phase in our country. It is probably not as simple as the fact that it is only taxes that make these companies move away now and that we do not have well-trained staff available.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-167	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Industry points out that Sweden is currently doing well financially. We have a high growth rate. It is true; it is very high. That depends essentially on two things. The first is that Sweden has had nine years of alliance policy but only four months of red green policy. Nine years – first eight years in government and then another year with our budget. But yesterday, after a number of months of social democratic politics, the verdict came from the Council of Finance Policy. You should listen, Mikael Damberg. You're laughing at the Council of Finance Policy, I see. It is an annihilating criticism of the policy that is now being pursued, that is the truth, on the point-by-point. Sweden's strong position is due to the fact that we have had a responsible economic policy for nine years. That's one thing. The second is that one cannot ignore the fact that the economy is currently being dozed by zero interest rates and a very expansive fiscal policy that the Council warns against. It is clear that you can then inflate growth. The problem is that, as the Council of Finance Ministers said, the barns are being emptied. On the day of recession, you have nothing more to feed on. The fact that things are going well depends on the policy we conducted, not least in relation to what Damberg says and talks about: the business climate in Sweden. There is a fundamentally positive development. We took away the fortune tax. You voted against. We reduced corporate tax from 26% to 22%. You voted against. We raised the marginal tax breakpoints for successful people. You voted 'no' every time. We implemented income tax reductions a number of times for people who work. You voted 'no' every time. You have not brought any of this in again, for you realize that we were right. But if you were in charge, it wouldn't have happened. Now it happened, and it has been successful for Sweden. What you have done, however, is to increase marginal taxes again. In Gunnar Sträng's time we had marginal taxes of over 100 percent. By means of a number of forward-looking tax agreements between my party and the Minister for Economic Affairs' party, they were reduced to 50%. Now they are once again up to 60 percent. We just passed Aruba as the country in the world with the world's highest marginal taxes. We are now at 60% again. That is why we are having this debate, because exceptions must be made. For groups that are internationally competitive, exceptions must be made, because if you have 60% tax on them, they are going straight away. That is what the Left Party Party said in the debate: it is actually strange to have all these exceptions. Yes, try not to have them! Then you'll see what happens to 60% marginal taxes. We have very young 3:12 rules in Sweden. That's because we have the high marginal taxes. We introduced expert taxes for foreign experts coming here. They will not come here if they pay Swedish marginal taxes. Lars Ohly suggested in his time that there would be lower taxes for footballers, so that they would be able to play in Sweden. And now we're discussing option taxes for these companies. It is clear that it is essentially due to the high-tax society, Mikael Damberg, that we must have all these exceptions. Then Damberg comes with it in school. The National Agency for Education has an evaluation based on PISA. Sweden is one of the leading countries in the world when it comes to IT in school. I think it's good that we move on and introduce programming as elements in the subjects of technology and mathematics. It is good that it is now done by the Swedish National Agency for Education. But it is perhaps better to tackle the problems where we are the worst, namely in terms of taxation of options, than in one of the areas where we are actually among the best in the world, namely in terms of IT in school. Mr President, I would like to You raise taxes and export tax revenue. My advice is to do exactly the opposite. Lower taxes and thus import taxpayers who pay high taxes to Sweden. They pay a lot of tax when they come here, because there are successful people we recruit when the tax rates are lower. That is the whole idea of our policy. Make sure we get competitive option taxation!
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-182	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Damberg said we should think about the tone. You should always do that, I think. Did the Alliance do everything right? No, we didn't. We could have done more on several points raised by the Minister for Economic Affairs. Are the Social Democrats doing everything wrong? No, they don't do everything wrong. It is good that you here give a statement that you want to review the option proposal in the investigation to broaden it and make it more useful for more people. And the restructuring of venture capital that is now being carried out is a good thing. We broadly agree that these are good things. I'm sure the Minister of Industry has other ambitions that are good. But the problem for Mikael Damberg is that Mikael Damberg also stands for a policy in which the tax is raised by tens of billions per year on jobs and on entrepreneurship, so that you do not feel the confidence in the future you could otherwise feel and so that you do not feel the confidence in the back of the government in the way you could do. I think that the Minister for Economic Affairs and his cooperation parties today are giving some strange signals, all in all. We have a party that cooperates with the government on the budget, which is therefore going to put forward the proposal on options eventually, which here talks about the fact that the companies that we are now discussing are not in the process of real resources. I quote: real resources. When they move, we shall see that it was certainly about real resources – real jobs for real people in Sweden who gave real resources to Swedish welfare. The Green Party says some interesting things in the debate but still seems to have as its main focus that we should build a society so that people who leave Sweden want to come back here to travel by bus. So we are trying to have a debate here to make sure that companies feel that it is worth the effort to start, grow and stay in Sweden. That is why we are having this debate. Then I think that Mikael Damberg should take an initiative so that you, on the government side and you who have a budget cooperation, discuss yourself together. How do you view these questions? Do you have a consensus? Will you be able to put forward proposals in the budget that will actually enable us to cope better with this situation? It is not enough to come and talk about shrimp sandwiches for people who work with their ideas 24 hours a day and who want to stay in Sweden but who have difficulty getting housing for their employees and who find it difficult to find other ways when they cannot compete with wages. They also find it difficult because of a regulatory framework. It is about ensuring that labour immigration rules work better. There are a few things to work with. We also need to look at how we can make the innovation system more effective. It has been investigated several times and mapped. There are over 400 players here. It is clear that through some grip we could have a better exchange of all the good things that are being done in our country to stimulate innovation and start-ups.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-189	Mr President, I would like to I think it's important to see that Spotify is a symbol. It is a company, but many more companies are struggling to grow in Sweden. I would like to say in the debate that I see that it is important that Spotify continues to grow and develop in our country. But we cannot believe that Spotify, which is such a big company and is currently struggling with Apple in global markets, will only grow in Sweden. They will have to grow in the United States in order to compete globally. They will have to grow in other markets internationally, just as other growing companies have had to establish themselves in important markets. But there were three issues raised by Spotify. I tried to go over the housing issue, where we disagree. The bourgeois parties somehow feel that the best saving they have in the draft budget is to remove the whole housing policy. At this point, it is a short-term policy. One of the biggest growth barriers for Sweden is that it is being built too little. The government has here a reform agenda that is the largest in 20 years. Then it's about it at school. I don't comment on that much. But of course I'm glad that the former school minister now thinks it's important to have IT in school, because we had so many debates when he was a school minister and he didn't think we needed an IT strategy for the school. It went almost so far as to ban Ipadar in preschool. Unfortunately, that was the attitude that prevailed. Now we are trying to speed up the whole digitalization process in Swedish schools. I think it is good that a proposal has now been made on how to press this into existing subjects. As far as the option proposal is concerned, it was you who wrote the investigative directives. Now the investigator's proposal is on the table, and now we're going to discuss it and move forward. But in this situation, with great growth in the Swedish economy, it is bottleneck problems. This means investing in the education system and in the ability to cope with skills supply and matching. Investment in infrastructure and housing construction is needed to sustain this growth. Unfortunately, you are making your biggest savings in those areas. I think it's a bad policy.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-193	Mr President, I would like to This debate is and has been important. It reminds us of where the jobs are created. They are created in companies that are given the opportunity to hire another person, another person and another person. Stefan Löfven once said: There is no shortage of jobs. It is a lack of education that is the problem in Sweden. I don't share that picture. It is very clear in the debate that we are four alliance parties that see precisely where the jobs are created and that jobs must grow in different parts of the economy. We will need more so-called simple jobs, but we will also need many more jobs of the kind that exist in many of the start-up companies. Then we have to tear down obstacles. Then we must continue to do so. Then Sweden needs a business environment that does not build barriers for the fast-growing but that can allow the innovative growth companies to continue to grow and strengthen Sweden. They mean a lot. Many Swedish start-up companies are creating jobs today. They may well become the next generation of big companies, and Sweden cannot afford to say no to that. I would like to thank you for the debate. Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for attending! Thank you, the Center Party, for initiating the debate! We will have to continue discussing job creation in the Swedish parliament. We will have to continue to discuss how to remove obstacles. That is one of the most important things that we have to do. Of course, the most important thing is not to discuss it without this government delivering results. The challenges facing Sweden and the Swedish labour market are among the biggest challenges we have ever faced. Reforms are needed. Then it takes us to take care of every single job in every sector.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-197	Mr President, I would like to There has been an interesting debate today. Digitisation, venture capital, simpler building rules and more free renting are words that have come up in the debate. Of course, some issues are more important than others. I have attacked the Center Party and explained why I believe that the party aspires on the ground as the most destructive party in the Swedish Parliament. I heard a lot of people laughed, but I'm serious. This is largely due to the fact that the Center Party is constantly getting its most destructive proposals through. At least the Social Democrats are holding the Green Party hard on the reins. Annie Lööf thought SD's political proposals were somewhat limited. But I wanted to take this opportunity to explain to farmers and entrepreneurs what a vote in the Center Party means, hence my topic choices for the day. Otherwise, I often debate the conditions of companies in this pulpit. Finally, I would like to address Mr Damberg, Minister for Enterprise. The talk about Sweden's good growth figures should perhaps include a pinch of salt. If you borrow tens of billions to support newly added people in Sweden, bnp increases. But the money is interestd, and someone will ultimately pay. So we are shifting responsibility to future generations. That is not a responsible way of running politics. Thank you for today's debate.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-203	Mr President, I would like to Jakob and Caroline, who I told you about at the outset, are urban people. But let me be clear: not everyone needs to live in the big city in order to be able to get jobs in growing companies – quite the opposite. In Kristianstad is the head office of one of the companies that was appointed Gasell company by Dagens Industri 2015. Ace IQ is an IT company with customers across the country. They also conduct trainee programs where they see the benefits of, among other things, being close to Kristianstad University. In order to increase the attractiveness of the whole country, we need to ensure that the smaller universities have the opportunity to develop. Fast-growing companies exist in all industries; they are both large and small, and they are spread all over the country. In order for companies to grow and remain in rural areas, it is essential to have a good and well-developed infrastructure that provides opportunities for commuting to nearby larger towns. There is also a need for a well-developed broadband that provides fast and reliable connectivity and increased opportunities for companies to establish themselves and for individuals to work at home and study at a distance. Small rural municipalities can often offer lower housing prices, lower stress levels and good opportunities for recreation. Important is a good business environment that enables the start-up and development of already established companies. Many of the business owners are individual entrepreneurs.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-210	Mr President, I would like to Every day playlists sound, every day payments are made and every day young people play games via apps in their phone. Tech companies exist in people's everyday lives. They facilitate, create jobs and contribute to growth. They strengthen Sweden as a brand and contribute to our good reputation. They put Sweden on the map. Mr President, I would like to For the entrepreneur, this is a life's work, a livelihood and a lifestyle. These companies need politicians who do not turn a blind eye to challenges, but are implementing change, which not only talks but delivers a workshop and who can act and navigate in a rapidly changing world. We need to facilitate the financing of new businesses, encourage partnership and active ownership. We need to improve digital knowledge at school, and we need to create more jobs and more housing. My hope is that the government will demonstrate its ability to act and abandon tax-enhancing policies and instead create better conditions for all fast-growing companies around Sweden. My hope is that Sweden will strengthen its position as the mecca of start-ups. Sweden needs these successful companies more than they need us. That's why we need to hone the shape. We need reforms in order for more companies to grow into international greatness and create jobs here at home. It's as simple as that. Finally, I would like to thank everyone involved in the debate, especially the Minister for Enterprise for his participation. It has been a good and urgent debate. Remember that Sweden needs these companies more than they need Sweden.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-216	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. It's been interesting, and I've learned a few things. I would like to say to the Christian Democrats that there is no escape from the need for real resources. These are service companies we are talking about, and I have said that they are important and will become increasingly important. But we're not going to ignore our basic industry, which is working on the real resources. Go to the dining room and try to get something in service form instead of real resources, and you'll see how it feels tomorrow. When we visited companies in Värmland during a week we were at a company that had grown fast. They worked with different rolls, ranging from paper mill rolls to small printing rolls, ranging from 200 grams weight to 30 tons weight. When I asked the entrepreneur what he would do if he were a politician for one day, he said: It is far too easy to move companies from Sweden abroad. It should be at least two years' salary before you move. He thought it was reprehensible that we lay a good foundation, educate people and provide good conditions, and then they move. This was an entrepreneur whose business had grown a lot. In a few years he had gone from nothing to 60 employees. So there are different wishes for how to keep our companies in the country.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-223	Mr President, I would like to Now at the end, the Left Party was recognized. Instead of making it attractive to be in Sweden, people and companies should be banned from leaving Sweden. You have to close the Öresund bridge the other way, or something. I don't know how to do it. Mr President, I would like to 30 000 homes were built in 2006 when the Social Democrats were in government. Now 50 000 per year are being built. It's still too little, but it's increased. We need to liberalise the housing market. It's a planned economy. The Alliance did a lot, but we should have done more. Everyone can point to everyone and say that we should have done more historically, but now we stand where we stand. We need to liberalise in order to achieve increased housing construction. You can go on duplicating subsidies in various forms, but in reality, if it is not worthwhile building, it is not being built. It is a fundamental idea in a market economy. It takes 14 years to get an apartment through the housing queue in Stockholm. It was faster to get a Trabant in the GDR once upon a time. We have to make changes, Mikael Damberg. I hope you will realise that in the housing talks that are going on and not just complicate it further for the builders and the housing market. This with Uber Pop is an interesting aspect. Once upon a time, you wanted to ban satellite dishes. Now you can't drive a taxi unless you have a taximeter. Why should a meter be required when customers can order and pay through an app instead? We need to update the legislation. Of course you have to pay taxes, but the legislation needs to be updated. The problem of social democracy is that you speak well of business, but regulations, taxes and other things run modern companies abroad. This applies to Spotify, new service companies and digitalisation. Of course, you can have the idea of preventing people from moving from here, but that doesn't make Sweden attractive in the long run. Lower taxes, Mikael Damberg, and make Sweden a prominent entrepreneurship nation!
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-231	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago I was in the area around San Franc isco to learn more about the success there and what we can do better. There it becomes clear that it is the critical mass and the culture around it that plays the greatest role. How, then, has this developed? Some feel that it stems from the days of the gold rush and the risk that existed at that time. More recently, there has been close collaboration between federal research, private and public universities, venture capital companies, business angels and all entrepreneurs. It has become like an ecosystem – a rain forest for the development of business ideas. It is a culture in which those who have succeeded pass on their success in the form of good advice, capital, donations and investments. The wealth of everything there is – capital, talent, research and development – attracts the world's companies to continue to develop and access this ecosystem. The venture capitalists are looking for the next success, but they also accept that many will not be successful. Here, many wonder why you have not failed in seeking capital. Very few people care about who you are, but the more people care about what you can contribute. Some of this, but far from all, applies to Sweden. But we can be much better than we are today. We have raised many issues in the debate where we could be. We see that there are also problems run nt San Franc isco. There are problems with house prices, heavily enforced salaries and visa rules, which make it increasingly difficult for companies there to obtain the right skills. If we play our cards right, we can become not just a place where you want to stay, grow and develop, but actually a place where you come from outside to develop your ideas. However, this will require much more from the government than we have heard so far in the debate. However, there is still time to account for more things to make this possible.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-236	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is successful in digital start-ups. We're happy about that. We do not close our eyes to the fact that there is a challenge in keeping up with and continuing to be at the top, but we also do not starve over the problems that exist in the housing market in Stockholm, that we have not worked with digitalisation in school long enough and we may not really understand the companies' functioning in the economy in the right way. This government has chosen to focus on knowledge, capital and international markets. These are three of the most important elements in terms of the growth and functioning of businesses. It is a major investment in a knowledge boost with 50 000 new educational opportunities, so that people can also take up new jobs that are emerging, ranging from universities to universities of applied sciences and conversion courses. We are making the biggest investment in housing construction in 20 years with another 15,000 new rental apartments. We are restructuring state venture capital to get state capital to work with private capital and in earlier phases, so that companies can grow capital. We have expanded the loan facility for companies that want to borrow and expand their business, and we have developed an export strategy aimed not least at these companies in order to make it easier for them to reach international markets. Ultimately, it is people who build these companies, and it is their creativity that is at stake. When you talk about what creates attractive societies – what makes people want to come here, want to be here and want to develop their business ideas? It is about research, development, education and clusters, but it is also a good society, where school is good, where the environment is safe and where people want to live. Not least young women want to make a career here, because they know that they can combine career with caring for children and family and living a rich life. These are important prerequisites for a successful Sweden. When we talk about the development of companies, we must also talk about how we make society attractive for people to live and live in.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-254	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! After this exciting debate about start-up companies and business policy, we will move forward on climate issues, which are issues of destiny for the Earth and for our generation. Jens Holm has asked me what initiatives for new measures and instruments, in addition to those under investigation, I intend to take in order to reduce Swedish greenhouse gas emissions more quickly. I would like to start by saying that I share the interpellier's view that Swedish greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced faster than they do today. However, it is important not to overcharge emissions in individual years, as it is trends over several years that are important. The Government has stated that greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden will clearly decrease during the 2014– 2018 term. The Government estimates that the national interim target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions outside the trading sector by 40 per cent by 2020 will be achieved but has raised the climate ambition and wants to achieve the target more effectively through national efforts. The government tightens national climate policy so that it contributes to global sustainable development that keeps the global temperature desert as far as possible below two degrees, but strives to limit it to 1.5 degrees. As the interpellier points out, the government has already presented a large number of climate measures during its term of office, and these will lead to lower emissions in the future. Important studies allowing for further emission reductions are under way, not least in the field of transport. An effective and powerful climate policy is methodical, well thought out and long-term. Acting without waiting for the outcome of the appointed investigations, which Jens Holm seems to advocate in his interpellation, is not responsible. A great deal of work is also being done in parallel with the ongoing investigations. Mr President, I would like to The Government will present further measures during its term of office that contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Reducing emissions from the transport sector is central. The government is working for a more transport efficient society with more resource efficient vehicles and for a transition to renewable fuels and energy sources. The ambition is a road transport system whose vehicles are powered by renewable fuels or electricity. We will take steps towards an energy system based on 100% renewable energy. Further measures are also needed to reduce emissions from agricultural land, where a change in the EU's common agricultural policy is important. Furthermore, during the term of office, the Government will strengthen its efforts to increase the regulatory impact of environmental taxes in accordance with the polluter pays principle and continue its work to identify non-tax-related potentially environmentally harmful subsidies in order to reduce the environmental burden. I also see great opportunities to reduce emissions through the Fossil free Sweden initiative and the strengthened dialogue with industry, civil society and the local level that the government has started and continuously deepens. Sweden needs an ambitious and long-term climate target as well as a clear regulatory framework for how climate work should be carried out in order for society to be able to change and meet the climate challenge in the context of economic, social and ecologically sustainable development. The Government therefore welcomes the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposal for a climate policy framework including long-term objectives and is continuing to work on that proposal. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to mention that the Government has also decided to develop a sustainable consumption strategy to be presented in the 2017 budget proposal. The strategy will consist of measures aimed at consumer markets in general and at the sectors that account for the largest share of total emissions, such as housing, transport and food. Consumers will have access to more information to make informed choices. It should be easy to act as a consumer in a sustainable manner.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-264	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action for their response to my interpellation. I think this is an important debate because, as the Minister says, we must do more to reduce our emissions in Sweden more quickly. I do not really agree with the Minister that we must always wait for investigations. Sometimes we know pretty well what needs to be done. There is also a risk, especially in view of the fact that this is a government that has set up a great many investigations, that important issues are buried, which require their solution as soon as possible, in investigations. Some of the things I would particularly like to raise in this debate as a proposal to the government on how we can reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden more quickly concerns, for example, the so-called environmentally harmful subsidies. It is subsidies – government, public funds – that go to things that emit and, overall, weaken our environment. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reviewed these environmentally harmful subsidies a number of years ago and concluded that in Sweden it is about SEK 50 billion. I think it is good that Åsa Romson says that these subsidies should continue to be mapped. But should we just map them, Åsa Romson? Should there not be concrete decisions to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies? Why is it only about non-tax-related environmentally harmful subsidies, Åsa Romson? We know, of course, that we have large reductions in taxes on energy tax and the CO2 tax on, for example, the peat industry, mining and fishing. We have a total tax exemption for aviation and shipping. These are areas that account for very large emissions, and if we only talk about non-tax-related subsidies we do not include these exemptions and reductions. My second question I would like to raise is something that the Minister touched on, namely our consumption and what we eat. We know that our consumption of meat and other animal species accounts for large emissions in Sweden. In total, animal consumption accounts for about the same emissions as all our 4.4 million private cars. There are no instruments at all for reducing emissions from this sector. I would like to see concrete initiatives for all our schools so that they can move on to serving more vegetarian food and better, sustainable food overall. Direct support could be given to developing more herbal foods, i.e. milk made from oats and steaks and sausages made from cereals and legumes produced in Sweden. We should set a target for how much meat consumption should be reduced in Sweden. Now it is increasing all the time and thus emissions. The third thing I would like to ask the Minister is the infrastructure plan which the government, if I have understood correctly, will present in the autumn. It is a long-term planning that will extend right up to 2029. There I wonder: Will there be concrete climate targets in the plan that, for example, follow previous studies to reduce road traffic emissions by about 80 to 90% by 2030, with concrete proposals on how to increase the number of journeys by bicycle, pedestrian and, not least, public transport? There is an enormous amount of work to be done here, and I think that we deserve concrete answers here.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-273	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! The interpellation that Jens Holm put to me some time ago has its starting point in the preliminary figures that are compiled for which climate emissions Sweden had in 2015. These figures were very positive. There is still a reduction in emissions in Sweden. The Swedish climate work continues to have a strength in that we reduce our emissions, which are now 25% below the emissions we expect to have in 1990. We are therefore taking a very happy international journey in which we can demonstrate to other countries that it is possible to reduce emissions at home relatively much, despite the fact that a welfare society is being built and because a society is being made to hang together and make people see that they can contribute to an improved environment. On the other hand, there was a worrying trend in the measurements that were provisionally made for last year, and that was that we in the transport sector, especially on the passenger car side, do not see the reductions we would need to see. I am therefore pleased that we have already started investigations. An investigation was actually presented on the same day, the so-called bonus – the Malus investigation. It shows how Sweden should move from a system where you only give incentives and money and makes it easier for those who buy new, more environmentally friendly cars to a fully cast system that also ensures that those who choose cars that give more climate emissions pay more. This is really what the principle of the emitter paying is all about. You need both someone who pays more and facilitating incentives for those who do the right thing. This proposal has now been presented, and the Government Office is preparing it. Unlike Jens Holm, I belong to a party that believes that if you work in a government, you must also ensure that you make well thought-out legislation and submit prepared and thought-out proposals to the parliament. You can't just think of an idea politically, write it out in your own head and then present it without allowing the Swedish expertise and not least the preparation requirements in the Government Office to work. It is good that we do so; it shows that we are on a solid foundation when we implement reforms in Sweden step by step. To just wave and say that now we suddenly have to make a new decision is not credible. Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm raises a number of further questions which were not included in the interpellation but which he put here in the debate and to which I am happy to answer. As far as environmentally harmful subsidies are concerned, it is quite right that the identification and reduction efforts are mainly based on non-tax-based subsidies. It is because if you are going to increase environmental taxes you always have a problem if you are constantly going to raise the same amount for everyone at the same time. We have not done this in Sweden before, which I think has enabled us to be more successful with the environmental taxes. This means that some operators have to pay less in environmental taxes than others for a period of time. The equivalent, if one were to have such a slavish and square way of thinking as Jens Holm shows when it comes to environmentally harmful subsidies, is that we could never increase environmental taxes as effectively as we do today. But it is important to identify what non-tax-based environmentally harmful subsidies we have, and we are clear that the government's approach is to phase them out more and more. We need a stronger climate policy in terms of consumption, not least for food, I fully agree with that. But I wonder in which Sweden Jens Holm lives in when he does not see that what is happening now in schools and public dining rooms around Sweden is that they are making concrete efforts to get it more healthy and green with more vegetables and fruit, less meat and meat of higher quality.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-283	Mr President, I would like to If we start with meat, we in the Left want an action plan for reducing meat consumption. This would mean both reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts and would be good for public health and for animals too, for that matter. If we set a concrete target for reducing meat consumption, we also support the public sector, not least all our schools, which want to serve more vegetarian food. We know that schools that set targets for more vegetarian food are often met with resistance today. It simply comes with different powers and opposes it. If we say here that it is desirable to reduce meat consumption, we support the progressive forces, and that is exactly what we should be doing. We should also allocate money so that real cooking kitchens can be built in all our schools, so that good and healthy vegetarian food can be prepared. As far as environmentally harmful subsidies are concerned, I must ask Åsa Romson: What is left of environmentally harmful subsidies that the government wants to phase out if we remove all environmentally harmful subsidies that have to do with taxes? Mr President, I would like to I do not quite understand the logic that we cannot remove the reductions in the CO2 tax and the energy tax. We are talking about large-scale activities such as peat mining, mining, fishing, aviation and shipping – areas that obviously should not have such reductions. I must again ask Åsa Romson: What environmentally harmful subsidies does the government really want to phase out, if you do not dare touch those relating to taxes? As far as infrastructure is concerned, I agree with Åsa Romson that bonus malus is a good idea. I think, however, that the investigation that has now come up with its proposal does not really reach all the way through. But let's hope the government can make some adjustments. I have a concrete question about the infrastructure plan that the government will be presenting in a few months' time and whether it will not only be a plan for what different objects to invest money on, and so on, but whether it will also be a plan with concrete climate targets, in which, for example, road traffic emissions will be reduced by somewhere in the former 80-90% proposed, for example, in the report on a fossil-free vehicle fleet and also from the Finnish Transport Agency. Madam President, I would like I would like to raise one last point. We are debating territorial emissions here, i.e. the emissions that occur on Swedish soil. But we in Sweden are also causing emissions in other countries. I am thinking in particular of Vattenfall's large emissions from lignite and fossil gas. It is emissions that are actually larger than Sweden's total emissions. We will have a debate on this in this House next week, which I look forward to. But I am concerned that the government has a plan to sell these activities only, that is to say, in the case of German lignite, when we know that the government could choose to give Vattenfall the task not to sell lignite in Germany but instead to give Vattenfall a mandate to phase this out. This would perhaps be the biggest climate decision that Åsa Romson and this government could make if they gave Vattenfall a mission not to sell but to gradually phase out lignite in Germany. I would also like an answer to this, even if it does not concern emissions directly here in Sweden. But as the Swedish National Audit Office has said, it is this emissions that we are responsible for in Sweden.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-291	Madam President, I would like That the Left Party wants a meat tax has been debated in this House many times. I have made it clear that I do not believe that today it is possible to formulate a purely economic instrument that governs properly the environmental impact of our consumption of food and that we should try more tools in that toolbox. In fact, what I am seeing at the moment has an effect is the very concrete support of the government to Sweden's municipalities, county councils and regions to procure, not least food, in a much more environmentally friendly way. Such active support for procurement – it is tax money that is traded – is already there. There is therefore no need for more money from the state, but it is about support and rules that work in order to be able to procure food in a good way based on environmental and climate benefits. I see that more and more municipalities do. The figures go up in terms of sustainable food and having more fruit and vegetables, both from a health and environmental point of view. And the total consumption of meat has levelled over the last two years. It has increased if we look many years back, but it has levelled out in recent years. I see it as very positive. These are climate emissions and environmental impacts that Sweden has in a global perspective. I think that is very important. I appreciate that the Environmental Objectives Committee, with Jens Holm sitting in it, has debated and discussed these issues and how to better formulate governance goals. Today we have a goal in Sweden that the measures we take should not have a negative environmental impact abroad. Already to this end we have a way forward. The government is actively working to achieve this, including by creating a strategy for sustainable consumption. I think it is a very important way forward, and I welcome the fact that the Left Party wants to contribute in that direction. I come to what Jens Holm wants to call the biggest climate decision. There are many major climate decisions that could be made if you were a single violent ruler. I have often thought that there are many decisions that one would like to make. I visited China and the Chinese Deputy Prime Minister just over a year ago. There were many things that people would like to be persuaded to do because they represent enormous CO2 emissions, which could be changed. But you also have to realize what tools and limitations you have when working. Such a restriction is precisely what is about whether we should give directives to a Swedish energy company to do something completely different from being an energy company. You might think so. That's what the Left Party thinks. The Green Party has advocated such a solution for Vattenfall with long-term ownership responsibility. But from the government's point of view, the important thing has been to stop the expansion of coal operations in Germany and, secondly, to get Vattenfall to stick to a sustainable arena and actually become an important player in building the modern and efficient energy system. In this context, Vattenfall's board has chosen the way to recommend a sale. This is precisely the deal that the government is currently looking at and reviewing from several different perspectives. We'll see where the government lands in that part. But to call it the biggest climate policy decision, I think, is to reduce such an important issue. There are two parameters which determine how much coal will be mined in Europe. One is how profitable the coal business is. The second is the local rules. After all, only local authorities and national parliaments can set these limits. Sweden is one of the countries that works by far the most strongly to reduce the profitability of coal operations by increasing emissions trading and the price of emission allowances in Europe. We've never run away with that before.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-299	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Romson for that answer. There are some things I still haven't got an answer to. I'll start with the meat consumption. We in the Left Party do not advocate a meat tax, even if I personally have nothing against it. That's how it's said. On the other hand, we want a reduction in meat consumption. I asked a question about the future infrastructure planning and whether there will also be climate targets in it. It would be quite easy just to answer yes or no to that question. With regard to environmentally harmful subsidies, I wonder whether Åsa Romson can give some concrete examples of environmentally harmful subsidies that the government wants to abolish, because she dismisses the whole tax-related area. I think we have received fairly clear information from a large proportion of researchers and also from the Swedish National Audit Office and a lot of members of Åsa Romson's own party that it is the government that owns the issue of Vattenfall's lignite coal. Just as the Green Party and the Social Democrats two years ago were able to decide that Vattenfall should not open any new coal mines in Germany, one could say that this deal should not happen but that it should be phased out. I understand it's a big decision to make. But I think it's a little strange that you just duck for that question. Madam President, I would like I think this will be my last debate with Åsa Romson as Minister for Climate and Environment. I want to say that I think you and I have had a lot of good debates. When you announced your resignation, I wrote on Twitter that I'm sorry. You are the best minister of the environment that I have experienced during my time in this House and, in fact, the best minister of the environment under many governments before that.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-304	Madam President, I would like I will begin by giving two brief answers. As far as environmentally harmful subsidies are concerned – to clarify the example – neither was the Left Party, as far as I know, against when we last raised the environmental tax with an energy tax on fuels in this House. We then made exceptions for the agricultural and forestry sector. With a slavish view of what is environmentally harmful subsidies, this would not have been possible. The result would probably have been that we would not have been able to increase environmental taxes at all, which I think would have been a worse result. That explains it. With regard to coal and the ownership directives, it is clear that if we are to give a new assignment to Vattenfall that they will actively close their mines quickly, it is a new task for the company that will interest the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Riksdag. There may be different parliamentary views on this. Finally, for my part, I would like to thank not least Jens Holm for all the good and tense debates that we have had over the years, both in this House and in committees. I am sure that we will meet in different contexts and maybe continue some debates but also often work on the big and important issues that Sweden and the world face when it comes to environmental and climate challenges. Many thanks for these debates so far.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-307	Madam President, I would like Robert Hannah has asked me whether I intend to give a reply on the question of the recognition of seyfo before the UN Security Council elections take place and how I and the government have highlighted the issue of the recognition of seyfo in talks with representatives of the Turkish state. Let me begin by commenting on the government's work on the candidacy of the UN Security Council. Sweden's commitment to a better and fairer world, where human rights and international law are respected and equality prevails, is a crucial reason why we want a seat in the Security Council. The government's policy also shows that we stand by our principles. We are now seeking an active dialogue with UN Member States on these values in global cooperation. This is an important benefit of the candidacy work. However, having dialogue areas is not the same as being uncritical, and we are not compromising our foreign policy principles in order to win votes. As the interpellant noted in previous written questions to me, and in my answers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received the investigation of historical mass assault carried out by Professor Pål Wrange. The study clearly shows the complexity of the different issues. It is clear to me that these must be discussed and analysed carefully. This time-consuming work, which does not only apply to seyfo, continues in several parts of the department. We have touched on Professor Wrange's investigation in talks with representatives of the Turkish Government.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-311	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. It is clear to me that Sweden's campaign to the UN Security Council and the ongoing refugee crisis Sweden and the world are in has made Sweden a weaker voice for peace and justice in the world. In my view, the government does not stand by its principles. This becomes clear to me when, although Stefan Löfven promised to recognise the Seyfo genocide in the run-up to the 2014 elections, if he became Prime Minister and even though the Foreign Minister, about a year ago in this House, promised me that in 2015 he would come up with an answer on the genocide issue, still echoes empty. It also becomes clear to me when the Turkish Embassy is allowed to challenge the Swedish press freedom by trying to stop TV4's screening of a documentary film about the genocide and the government does not even call Turkey's ambassador. The least one could do is to call the ambassador and give him a statement of action, which is totally unacceptable. For me, it strongly indicates that Turkey is currently dictating Swedish foreign policy, while oppression in Turkey continues to cost people their lives and freedom. Madam President, I would like This is really obvious to me, and I think it is of the utmost importance that the Swedish Government recognises the genocide. If a country is allowed to get away with perhaps the most serious human rights crime there is, that is, genocide, as has been done with Turkey, it will continue to commit similar crimes. Let me give you a few examples. The repression of the Kurds has intensified in recent years. The Kurdish parts of Turkey have today turned into a war zone, and only this year 342 civilians have died. This has affected over 11⁄2 million individuals in the Kurdish part of Turkey, and their already difficult economic, social and sanitary conditions have worsened. Another example is that Turkey under the rule of Erdo has developed into the world's largest journalist prison. Today, a large number of journalists are incarcerated in the country. A lot of people have been fired, and the rest have been silenced by fear. They have taken over newspapers and turned them into propaganda machines. It is also clear that Turkey is using the Syrian refugee crisis to silence the criticisms of the EU and Sweden. According to a recent report by Amnesty, Turkey has deported refugees back to a war-torn Syria almost every day since mid-January, which is in complete violation of international law. So it seems to me, Madam President, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is leading Sweden in a direction where the principles of foreign policy are vagued. It allows other countries to dictate how to act on fundamental human rights issues – all in order to be a member of the Security Council. As I see it, Sweden's voice has actually become weaker and not stronger through the campaign. When it comes to seyfo, they have chosen to bureaucratise the issue and thereby silence themselves – I usually call it a chilling effect – in the struggle to gain a little more power in the UN. I think it is a good thing that you run for the UN Security Council, but you should not bend your principles. I believe that this has led to a slowdown in the so-called feminist foreign policy that you want to pursue, and I think that is a great pity. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a few questions. Will a decision on seyfo be taken before the Security Council elections take place, that is, before 28 June? Will Sweden show that it does not allow itself to be ruled by repressive states to enter the UN Security Council? If so, why not call Turkey's ambassador after the embassy tried to stop the screening of the documentary film on TV4?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-321	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that a number of arguments are mixed up in an almost confusing way here. The Security Council campaign puts us in contact with the other 192 countries of the UN for dialogue. To a very large extent, the dialogue is about human rights and all that is our policy. We have the opportunity to explain our political stance, so it is of course a very important platform for us. Now the interpellation concerned the question of historical mass assaults, genocide and so on. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs thus instructed Professor Pål Wrange to highlight relevant legal, historical and other aspects of both approach and designation in connection with historical mass abuse at both a principled and a general level. Now we have received that survey, which will help us to understand and manage various events in the past. Perhaps I may also remind Robert Hannah that the then alliance government left the issue of recognition without action. To a parliamentary question, my predecessor answered as follows: An open process of objectivity and thoroughness, which can be accepted by all parties, should therefore be pursued. In this way, a politicisation of events can be avoided, which benefits reconciliation processes. ..................................................... That has been an important starting point. Now, of course, we are reviewing the investigation and also looking at the consequences of it. We'll let all the Department's different units look at this. It is important, because it is important to make contacts and see what happens in the rest of the world. We have, of course, been in contact with Turkey and Turkey's embassy even though recent events have been timed. It goes without saying that we remain critical. It is simply to examine our statements and how we act both in the UN and – above all – in the EU, which is our platform. That is where we have been in favour of the defence of human rights. It is easy to control and easy to follow up.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-327	Madam President, I would like I think it is quite easy to analyse the situation and Sweden's campaign to the UN Security Council by simply saying that even the Social Democratic newspaper Aftonbladet is grossly critical. It has had several critical leaders on the issue. It is not the case that there are different opinions on the matter, but absolutely everyone can agree that it is good if Sweden is running for the UN Security Council. However, it is not a good thing if you twilight on your principles, and that is exactly what the government is doing at the moment. They hide sensitive issues, and they choose not to speak when Turkey tries to stop Swedish freedom of expression. The principles on which you wish to run and enter the Security Council are being curtailed. If you are going to pursue feminist foreign policy, then you should also be running it in your campaign and not hiding sensitive issues, as you have done all along. On the question of the recognition of seyfo, I am very pleased that the Socialist parliamentary group, together with the Green Party and the like, chose to recognise the genocide in 2010. I think Carl Bildt was wrong. That's my personal opinion. I was very happy and really believed that the question was settled when the Social Democrats promised this – when Stefan Löfven stood in front of 2,000 people during the election campaign and promised that he would acknowledge seyfo. However, one chooses to conduct an investigation. I've read Pål Wrange's investigation-- I've read the final result-- where he simply says it depends. It depends on whether to acknowledge historical events or not. To say that this is because it is very timely, because as things stand today, the issue is already politicised. The Turkish state forbids by law to say that the genocide has taken place. Survivors' children are not allowed to return to their home areas. You can't get expropriated land back. Journalists who believe that the genocide has taken place and write about it are put in prison. It is quite clear that Turkey has made it its national identity to deny this event – the worst crime it has committed in its history. Sweden, which should be the absolutely strongest voice for a feminist foreign policy and peace and justice in the world, chooses to remain silent, not to take the fight with Turkey and not to acknowledge the genocide. Then you don't stand for your principles. I do not think that Sweden should go around recognizing all kinds of crimes against humanity that have been committed if it is not the case that the country that has committed the crime does not accept its responsibilities, does not recognise what it has done and is not prepared to reconcile with other states, in this case Armenia. There is neither preconditions nor room for peace, justice and reconciliation as long as Turkey makes it a criminal offence according to its own law to say that this has happened. If you interpret Pål Wrange's investigation in relation to seyfo – to the genocide – it is quite clear that the Swedish government must acknowledge this. Sweden had a very good opportunity to address the issue in connection with the centenary of last year, when several other states did so. Now we are in a precarious situation: we want to enter the UN Security Council, we do not want to mess with Turkey and there is a refugee crisis. It is in difficult situations that one's fundamental principles and values are tested. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the fact that it is now the Swedish Government that has the chance to stand up for its fundamental values and recognise the genocide, preferably before 28 June. Otherwise, it is clear to me that the very basic principles which are the reason why we want to enter the UN Security Council are being curtailed.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-336	Madam President, I would like Robert Hannah, I admire your commitment and think it's important that we talk about this. Only yesterday, I attended a seminar in the House of Culture on freedom of expression and Turkey's role. I couldn't have been clearer than that. I have certainly not hidden what we think about these issues. On the contrary, we are very active. We are, too, through our policies. What are we supporting? What projects do we have? How do we act both in the EU context and in the UN context? Time and again we organise seminars where we talk about our feminist foreign policy and discuss all the burning issues that are at our table right now and which we are dealing with politically. I guess we didn't hide anything. On the contrary, we have openly given a mission to Pål Wrange to look at how to denote historical mass assaults. And we have received a report that is presented openly, which we are examining and on which we will of course also take a position. This is not something that has in any way been swept away or hidden; on the contrary, it is a very important discussion. It is no coincidence that very few other countries have even raised this issue properly. Parliament has done so, but governments are dealing with precisely historical abuses and the names to be used with great caution. After all, the international community has a responsibility to act against war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, and that responsibility does not depend on a situation being described as genocide. It is very important to say, because sometimes you can believe from the debate that you have changed something just by changing the name. As regards the differences between the crimes, Pål Wrange's study says that in many cases of mass assaults being discussed, it is claimed that the acts constitute genocide. Although it may be the most politically charged violation of international law, it is not the only one and there is no legal hierarchy. Other systematic and widespread persecutions may constitute crimes against humanity or war crimes. There is nothing to prevent an act from being characterised as both genocide and war crimes and crimes against humanity. The terminology debate must not prevent us from taking decisive action to stop violence, if it is subsequently referred to as genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. Acting is our single most important task. And we do so in different places, in Syria and wherever we see that we can make a contribution. I believe that there is a strong appeal from parts of the opposition to dwell on the terminology debate as if politicians were best sent to do so. It's up to the courts to do that. We should concentrate our energy on acting, and I do not really see the same commitment to it. We act both politically and humanitarianly and also militarily in the areas where there is widespread abuse. We continue to have the dialogue, we continue to be clear and we will continue to assert what are the pillars of Swedish foreign policy: freedom of expression, democracy and the defence of human rights.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-344	Madam President, I would like I would very much like the situation to be as described by the Foreign Minister, to stand up for a feminist foreign policy, to be clear about its values, to have the campaign for a place in the United Nations Security Council really looked through and to stand up for the human values that it seems to be doing in this House anyway. The problem is that almost the whole of the Swedish journalist corps and editorial writers, including red-green ones, are critical of the Swedish campaign for a place in the UN Security Council. I think you need to step back, listen and see what they're saying, whether there's an ounce of truth or whether you're living in your own parallel world. I think it's a little bit like living in your parallel world. I also think it might be good to listen to Olof Palme's words that you should call things by their proper names. Now we have a government that does not want to recognise the previous genocide at the beginning of the 20th century and the genocide committed by IS today, unfortunately also on the descendants of survivors of the first genocide. The main problem with the Middle East, if you ask me, is that countries and states have got away with human rights violations and have made it a principle that you can deny and violate other groups. You can get away with the crimes you have committed, because there are no consequences. Turkey has never had to bear any consequences whatsoever of what they did in 1915. It has been possible to move on. It has been possible to silence critics. It has been possible to make it a criminal offence. It has been possible to have conflicts with its neighbours. It has been able to exploit the situation for its own good and make it its international identity to deny. If the Swedish Government really means everything that has been demonstrated here today, it should also be acknowledged. In any case, can the Foreign Minister say that there have been war crimes in 1915 and that there are still war crimes today? And do we really need more investigations when all the genocide scientists have already come to the conclusion?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Robert Hannah! But you must agree that the important thing is how we act and what we do to prevent what is currently happening, not least in Syria and Daish's abuse of Christians and other minority groups. These are terrible examples of persecution that we see. What matters is what we do. Unfortunately, the debate here is often only about one word – as if the name decided it. However, it is no coincidence that governments and we foreign ministers do not do so because we believe that we should comply with the genocide convention and show full respect for it. We must do so by allowing the procedures established for this to prevail. In the meantime, however, we must do everything we can to stop the abuses and war crimes. In many cases it is obvious that war crimes or perhaps even crimes against humanity are committed. We have not in any way stuck under the guise of what we think about it. Today we are the fifth largest humanitarian donor in the world. That's a good example and a good rating of how Sweden acts, isn't it? We are the sixth largest contributor to the UN. Then it is clear that we also want influence. There are no examples of us cleaning up our fight for human rights and democracy in any way. It's just the opposite. We've got an even bigger arena to work on. In all our contacts, including with Turkey, we talk about what we think – I did so only yesterday – when it comes to freedom of expression and the protection of free speech. We will continue to do so, and we will hopefully continue to do so from the UN Security Council in the future. This debate is also important for the survivors of the victims of the 1915 abuse. The memory is both immense and alive, and we owe it to them to deal with it seriously.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-354	Madam President, I would like Sofia Damm has asked me whether it is reasonable for Sweden to vote in favour of a resolution that both reduces and invisibly makes the ties of Jews and Christians to Haram-Haram-al-Sharif-Sharif, or the Temple Mount, and the Lamentation Wall, and why the government supports a resolution that not only sends a dangerous signal value but is directly wrong and polarises the situation in the Middle East further. On 12 April, Sweden, together with France, Spain and Slovenia, and 29 other states voted in favour of a resolution of the UNESCO Board on cultural and world heritage issues of religious, political and cultural historical value to all involved. The resolution also dealt with Gaza's reconstruction and development. The circle that voted in favour represented an overwhelming majority of the Member States on the UNESCO Executive Board. A minority, six states, voted against. The EU Member States, represented on the Management Board, voted in three different ways: four in favour, two in favour and five against. Sweden worked in the negotiations for an EU-wide approach. The EU negotiated with Palestine to get its amendments through. Some of these were taken on board, others not. When it became clear that the EU vote would be divided, Sweden made an overall assessment that, despite the fact that the EU had not been able to hear all the views, we could still vote in favour with three other EU Member States. Sweden has also voted in favour, depending on the wording of the resolution, on the previous occasion. The EU, including Sweden, uses both the concepts of Haram al-Sharif-Sharif / Temple Mount for the area where the Al-Aqsa Mosque is located to mark the ties of all Abrahamic religions, i.e. Judaism, Christianity and Islam, historical, cultural and religious links to the area and to Jerusalem. The government stresses the importance of the access of all religions to the sacred places. In its statement of 17 September, the UN Security Council has only used the Arabic term Haram al-Sharif-Sharif, which is why it can also be regarded as the common language of the UN. I would like to stress that there is therefore nothing in the text that aims to deprive the place of its religious significance for Judaism. As far as Gaza is concerned, the humanitarian situation is serious. Gaza's isolation needs to be broken and reconstruction accelerated. It is essential that all parties, both Palestine and Israel, cooperate with UNESCO and facilitate our global shared responsibility for cultural heritage.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-359	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply. I would also like to begin by stating that UNESCO has an important role to play in UN cooperation. Unesco's role is to support cultural and religious diversity. In a world in which the Islamic State is bombing priceless cultural treasures to pieces and to pieces, and in which we in our own society are unable to conduct a moderate debate on religiousness, these are important issues. However, the resolution that prompted my intervention is as far from supporting religious diversity as can be achieved. Resolution 199 EX/ 19 was initiated by Egypt, Morocco, Algeria, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar and Sudan and concerns Jerusalem's sacred sites and the reconstruction and development of Gaza. What is remarkable in the resolution is that only the Muslim names on the Temple Mount and the Western Wall are used. But these two places are of central importance not only within Islam but also within Judaism and Christianity. The temple site is not mentioned but is described as the al-Aqsa Mosque, Haram-Haram-al-Sharif-Sharif. The area around the western wall, Kotel, is almost exclusively referred to as al-Buraq Plaza. This, Mrs Wallström, is not contributing to religious diversity. Rather, this is to set fire to an already infected conflict. Just a few weeks ago, tens of thousands of Jews gathered in front of the temple mountain in Jerusalem to receive Birkat Kohanim, the blessing of the Herren, as part of the celebration of the Jewish Passover. It is a multi-thousand-year tradition that takes place at the place where the two Jewish temples stood for a thousand years. Yet this particular area has become the most recent area of conflict in the condemnation of the State of Israel. Consciously, Israel's bond is made invisible to the Temple Mount and the Western Wall. How the Swedish government could choose to compromise with this right, in the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is not only incomprehensible. Actually, I think it's rather shameful. Madam President, I would like I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs owes me the answer. Is it reasonable for Sweden to vote in favour of a resolution that is directly wrong and that polarises the situation in the Middle East further? How does Sweden intend to act in the future? Will there be increased vigilance when dealing with such sensitive issues, or does the government not see that there have been some shortcomings in dealing with this issue?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-365	Madam President, I would like I believe that I am going to take this opportunity and say a few words to all those who listen about UNESCO and also about the current resolution. Unesco is a Member State-led UN organisation with 195 members. It is essentially a normative organisation aimed at consensus and peace building in the fields of education, science, culture and communication. UNESCO has a board of 58 Member States representing the various geographical areas of the world. The highest decision-making body is the biennial General Conference. Sweden is now on the board from 2013 to 2017, and UNESCO works, as we have heard, for cultural diversity, preservation of cultural and world heritage and so on. With regard to the status quo at Haram-Haram-al-Sharif-Sharif, or Temple Mount, it was originally an agreement on the distribution of responsibilities for the sacred places. This was first mentioned in a decree issued in 1852 by Ottoman Sultan Abdülmecid. However, the ratio between 1967 and 2000 is usually referred to. The EU believes that any change in the status quo of Haram-Haram-al-Sharif-Sharif, or Temple Mount, from 1967 would have profound, destabilising effects. It is to be welcomed that both Palestine and Jordan and Israel officially stress the maintenance of the status quo. With regard to the current resolution, it should be stressed that the issues in the agenda items relating to Palestine have been on UNESCO's agenda for many years. Palestine, a UNESCO Member State, has the right to raise issues in UNESCO as such. Of course, the conflict between Israel and Palestine will not be resolved by UNESCO's Board of Directors, but these cultural heritage issues must be closely followed by Sweden as a board member. This resolution deals specifically with the access and management of world heritage sites of high religious, political and cultural historical value, including the old city of Jerusalem, including the ramp leading up to the Mugrabi gate and Patriarch tombs in Hebron and Betlehem. It is also about access to education, culture, the media and communication in Gaza. The background to the resolution is that the General Assembly of UNESCO decided in 2003 on an action plan to save the cultural heritage of the old city of Jerusalem, including the development of a database on conservation issues. In 2010, the UNESCO World Heritage Committee decided to send a reactivation mission to Jerusalem. The mission was postponed many times because of political contradictions. In 2013, Israel and Palestine agreed that an expert mission would be carried out. Should such a one then be admitted, it would be easier to find out the facts, tensions would likely decrease and the status quo would be more easily maintained. I have described what the vote looked like. On the board, we were in the company of other major EU countries, and there was a very divided voice image. In the case of the name, the EU and Sweden use both names. As I mentioned in my first reply, the UN has used Haram-Haram-al-Sharif-Sharif as a designation. It is also considered to be common practice and can be used, but we believe that both designations can be used. Of course, we must do everything we can to ensure that all the different religions have access to these historical and cultural sites and that they are also used properly.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the clarifications on UNESCO. It's an important organ, don't doubt it. I have also read the whole resolution and seen what it contains. This is so much more than a dispute about what the places should be called. I believe that this is a dangerous signal in a difficult conflict. In negotiations and compromises, it is really about giving and taking. But here I think that the Swedish government has compromised the ties of both Jews and Christians to the place. That's what I find so serious. The warning bells should have been ringing in the negotiations on the resolution. I find it a little hard to understand why you stick to this line. One country that has realised that it matters how to vote on these kinds of issues is France, which the Foreign Minister also listed among them and voted 'yes'. It is true that they have voted in favour. However, unlike Sweden, the French Prime Minister has made it clear in retrospect that it was unfortunate and frankly clumsy to support this type of text of resolution. In response to my interpellation and also in the previous speech, the Foreign Minister stresses that Sweden uses both the concepts of Haram al-Sharif-Sharif or the Temple Mount and the area where the Al-Aqsa Mosque lies to mark the historical, cultural and religious ties of all religions – Judaism, Christianity and Islam – to the area and Jerusalem. I would like to ask: in what context does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that Sweden is doing this? The Government is accountable to the Riksdag. But if you look at Parliament's minutes, it shows the opposite as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says. If the wording is so important, why has it not been used in this House?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-378	Madam President, I would like It's important to watch. I don't know when we last discussed it. It is possible to go back as far as the previous government. We should be consistent there, but both can be used. Once again, we must be very careful to try to do things that contribute to understanding and to bringing the parties together. Here it was a very divided voice, and perhaps not always skilfully handled by those responsible for the resolution. I think they have admitted this afterwards. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in getting a common EU line. It could definitely have been done better. I think everyone can say that. Now we must try to do everything we can to get back to a situation where we calm down and declare the violence that has arisen and the problems that we have in the Middle East. It is good if we can also use the UNESCO Board to do so.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-381	Madam President, I would like My point is that Sweden, in the UN context, seems too casually to those who have the clear motive to take every opportunity to criticise Israel. If the motive for the resolution when it was presented was not obvious, the intention should be clear when the text of the resolution describes Jewish sites such as false Jewish tombs and so on. It is important and good and I appreciate the government's emphasis in its response on the importance of the access of all religions to the sacred places. I want to believe it's genuine. But not all colleagues in UN cooperation have that basic position. It must therefore be expected that the Swedish Government will be vigilant and dare to stand up for this. In order to support the resolution, such an important wording must be included. One should certainly be allowed to criticise Israel. But the proportions of the blame are lopsided in UN cooperation. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs can admit that too. Directly false allegations I want the Swedish Government never to contribute to. I would like to return to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said about Sweden having joined forces with other EU countries, and she points out that Sweden was trying to get a common EU line. It does not seem quite honest to hide behind the actions of other EU countries. In particular, I think it is for a government that, in other contexts, feels it is crucial to emphasise that it is an independent voice. France has changed its position, and seven other EU countries have already realised at the vote that it was unwise to vote as Sweden. Germany, England and the United States voted against. It's a company that we shouldn't be ashamed to belong to. I appreciate the Minister for Foreign Affairs saying it wasn't skilfully handled. I hope that we will see a more skilful approach in the future. Thank you for the debate.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-385	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked the Minister for Defence what ambitions the Minister for Defence and the Government has for the NATO Summit and what specific issues Sweden should pursue, what the Minister for Defence intends to do to deepen bilateral relations with important NATO countries such as Germany and the UK, what participation in the Enhanced Opportunities Programme has meant for Sweden and how the Minister for Defence wants to use it to further deepen cooperation with NATO, and how the Minister for Defence sees that the difference between being a partner country and a full member of NATO has increased and how it affects Sweden's security. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Both Sweden and NATO are clear that there is a difference between partnership and membership. Military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It gives us the freedom of action to act in any given situation in the best interests of tension and peaceful development. The freedom of military alliance requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with a credible national defence capability. The government is betting on both. We deepen Sweden's bi- and multilateral relations and collaborations with countries and organisations in our neighbourhood, while now strengthening Swedish defence. For our own defence capabilities and for our ability to contribute effectively to international peace-promoting efforts, it is important that we practice and cooperate with others. This is why the government is primarily developing our defence cooperation with Finland. We also collaborate in the Nordic region, around the Baltic Sea, within NATO's partnership for peace, with the USA and with a variety of other countries and organisations. We are also conducting advanced military exercises together with NATO, among others. Developments since the end of the Cold War have resulted in NATO's military technical standards being the basis for cooperation between countries in advanced crisis management operations. Ensuring that our own Swedish defence functions well in cooperation with NATO's systems and structures is thus a practical prerequisite for us to have effective cooperation in EU or UN peacekeeping operations in various crisis areas. Among other things, the government, on the basis of the Enhanced Opportunities Programme, is working to deepen the partnership with NATO. It is about political dialogue, exercise cooperation and information exchange. I look forward to continuing this cooperation at my level, and already in a few days' time I will be attending the meeting between Sweden, Finland, the High Representative of the European Union and NATO in the margins of the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting on 19 and 20 May. Hans Wallmark asks about Great Britain and Germany. These two countries play an important role in European security and not least in the security of our neighbourhood. Sweden has close links with them both in the area of security policy. The UK and Germany are two of Sweden's closest foreign bilateral defence cooperation countries. In order to concretise and further deepen cooperation with the UK, the Minister of Defence and his British colleague will sign an activity programme for Swedish-British defence cooperation this summer. The government also sees opportunities to develop and deepen cooperation with Germany. The June European Council and the July NATO Summit are two security policy priorities for the future. The government is working to invite partners to the NATO summit in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July to discuss current security policy challenges in a broader context. Sweden is primarily interested in dialogue on developments around the Baltic Sea, but also in other security policy issues such as the fight against Daish and the situation in Syria and Iraq. We have received an invitation to the Afghanistan Summit session and look forward to discussing developments in the country and the NATO-led Resolute Support Mission where Sweden participates.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-393	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. So, on 8 and 9 July this year, NATO will hold its summit in Warsaw. It may seem an irony of fate that the very city that had to name a pact that has disappeared, namely the Warsaw Pact, will be responsible for this summit. The Warsaw Pact collapsed when the countries in it regained their freedom in 1991. Among the first coercive members of the Warsaw Pact – Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria – did when they were granted the freedom and independence to apply for membership of NATO. That says something about the power of NATO. I see, Madam President, that some things will be discussed at the summit. Firstly, there will be a further emphasis on collective defence. That is why there are also the rounding brigades, and additional equipment is being deployed in Romania and Bulgaria. It is one way of marking that there is support for each other as NATO members. The second is the fight against international terrorism, against Daish. It is about what is happening in the Middle East and now also in Libya. The third is that the European states will call even more clearly for assurances from the United States that the Atlantic link is maintained and strengthened. The fourth is that one more Member State will actually be accepted. Montenegro will become the 29th NATO member. I do not think I see any priority on the part of the Foreign Minister. What would the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government want to achieve? We've discussed the fight against Daish. On Thursday, Madam President, we will have a debate in this House on one of the requests that France has made to us, namely the one on ammunition from Sweden. We're up for it, too. I'm one of those who would have liked more. It's no secret from the Secretary of State. I believe that the action of the government has been characterised by prudence and inadequacy in terms of aid and aid to France, and thus wider and wider in terms of the coalition against Daish and international terrorism. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think there are a few interesting things in the Foreign Minister's reply that I would like to draw attention to. It concerns the foreign minister's answers to my questions about how we can deepen cooperation with Germany and the United Kingdom. It is pointed out, among other things, that the Swedish Defence Minister will meet his British colleague in the near future. I think that's good. That's what I wanted to say. I think it is good, and I think it is valuable. I also think it is good that we are now saying that we should develop an activity programme. For my part, I hope that it will contain what we agreed on in the orientation bill. Madam President, let me quote from that bill, which rested on a deal between five parties: Both the EU and NATO are developing their concepts in order to be able to carry out military operations quickly. It can be noted that the Member States of the EU and NATO around the Baltic Sea are active in this development. The Government believes that Sweden should actively seek participation in bilateral and multilateral cooperation with emphasis on Northern Europe. An example of this type of cooperation is the UK-led Joint Expeditionary Force (JED) where forces from, among other things, the UK-led Joint Expeditionary Force. Denmark, Norway and the Baltic countries are included. ..................................................... I would therefore like to put a specific question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs when she nevertheless gives her answer: is the Joint Expeditionary Force, the JEF, such a thing as is included in the activity programme? I think it is a good thing that, on the basis of a settlement, we have pointed it out in the orientation proposal that we have voted for. I hope that those words go from enforcement to enforcement. Madam President, I would like What I think we should ask the Foreign Minister to go further is precisely what the priorities are for this summit in Warsaw.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-410	Madam President, I would like If there is anything that the Secretary of Defense and this government stand by, it is the orientation bill. As for decisions taken in the meantime, it is in fact the opposition that has changed the line. After all, you are no longer attached to our military freedom of alliance. The Center Party has changed its mind. I think it's hard on one thing and the other when it comes to the other. We believe that our security policy must rest on these three legs. Two of them are strengthening our own defenses and cooperating. I know that the Secretary of Defense, just as I travel around the world, making sure that we stick to our collaborations and develop them. I was as late as a few days ago in the United States talking to Secretary Kerry about how we should work together. We do it with Finland. We are deepening cooperation in one area and the other with the Baltic countries and the other Nordic countries. We have a good cooperation. The third is, of course, that we should stick to our military freedom of alliance. It serves us well. It would not contribute to relaxation or to making the Swedes more secure to abandon it at this point, when it is unfortunately more and more realistic for NATO to have Donald Trump as the highest chicken. Maybe even Hans Wallmark doesn't think it's something to put in the view. So we stand by our security policy. We develop collaborations and follow up on what was in the specialization bill. We are also committed to strengthening our defence. Our foreign and security policy line and the desire to stand by the freedom of alliance is based on a thorough international analysis. In recent years, tensions have increased around the Baltic Sea region and our neighbourhood. The answer to this must be a credible defence capability, more political dialogue and broad bilateral and international cooperation. The answer is not a Swedish NATO membership. We want to hold on to this stability. We have no agenda other than that of NATO. These are, of course, the major challenges that we have, with which we work and where we contribute. It is no coincidence that we are in the core group that is fighting Daish and therefore also discussing a lot with NATO how to become more effective in combating terrorism around the world. Our security policy line is solid. I have explained my view of this in this interpellation response. I have also given examples of the issues that we think are important to raise when we meet with the NATO community, also in Brussels later this week. Another area that we tend to highlight is the Arctic, because it is important what happens there.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-420	Mr President, I would like to For new listeners and participants, including Mr President, I can tell you that when we broke up for a meeting of the groups at 2.30 p.m. 16 the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I discussed the forthcoming NATO summit in Warsaw. We had some exchange. I had asked some questions, and then she gave some lines. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had a problem with her pollen allergy and has announced that she chose her sloping position. I shall now use my remaining three-and-a-half-minute speaking time to repeat some of the arguments that will certainly be heard in the future in the debate on NATO and Sweden's relationship with it. First of all, however, Mr President, I would like to make a number of points on behalf of the Foreign Minister. She argued that the defence arrangement would in some way have meant that the parties that made it healthy removed their possible opinion on NATO membership. That is not the case. In addition, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have given completely different pictures on this point in different contexts. We had respect for each other's views when we discussed the defence settlement and realised that some were in favour of NATO membership, such as the Moderates, and some were against, such as the Social Democrats. But the deal was not about how we should deal with NATO. The second – and I have seen that it has been put forward in the media as well – is this about what happens if Donald Trump is elected President of the United States. Basically, I think it is quite serious, Mr President, for the reason that he has expressed himself debilitating and deplorable about NATO. He is questioning free trade, and I am very afraid that he is the kind of person Putin would like to do business with. There is therefore good reason to be concerned about Trump, but perhaps not for the reason that emerges from the Socialist side. What also becomes a problem with this argument is what happens on the day Trump does not become president. Would Clinton then be the argument that a Swedish NATO membership could be sought? And if Trump were to become President against the assumption, what is the position of the Social Democratic Party with regard to the rather extensive cooperation that currently exists between Sweden and the United States? In that case, it is basically about as bad. I think that there is every reason for us to have a number of Swedish positions before the Warsaw Summit. First of all, I think it is good from a Swedish point of view that we should welcome this strengthening of collective security and defence obligations. As a partner country, we are not included in them, but it is good to strengthen collective defence, not least for countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Secondly, I think we should be even clearer in Sweden's fight against international terrorism in the form of Daish. There I wish that Sweden would have done more both faster and earlier. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. Thirdly, I think we should emphasise that the Atlantic link is a good thing. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Foreign Affairs writes in her reply – and she also stressed it here in the debate – about enhanced cooperation with the UK. I think that's good. I am pleased that the Swedish Minister for Defence will also visit his British colleague. Then there should be an activity program. There should be different things to be established between Sweden and the UK. I did not receive an answer from the Foreign Minister, but I would like to emphasise that I will follow up on one thing when we see exactly what the agreement between Sweden and the United Kingdom means, and that is: how do we stand with the British-led JEF, Joint Expeditionary Force, where forces are together? I would like a response from the government and I will wait until the two defence ministers have presented their action plan.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-432	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark was not allowed to speak on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but well on behalf of the Minister for Home Affairs. It can be an acceptable trade in pollen times. Stig Henriksson has asked the Minister for Defence when we can expect a proposal from the Minister to formally join the NATO Strategic Communications Centre. Hans Wallmark has asked the Minister for Defence what is the reason why the decision to join the Centre has been delayed, how he views the importance of cooperation with NATO in developing Sweden's ability to face psychological warfare and how he sees the view that it would be desirable for Sweden to contribute to the development of its expertise in this area by other actors than NATO. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellations. The defence decision states that Sweden should maintain and continue to develop a high level of cooperation in international crisis management and increase Swedish presence in NATO's military and civilian structures relevant to Sweden. Furthermore, the decision shows that the deteriorating world situation has brought up to date the need for a psychological defence adapted to current circumstances. The work of the NATO Strategic Communications Centre aims to enhance the strategic communication capacity of allies, partner countries and NATO institutions. This is done through studies, analyses, concept development, training and exercises. The focus of the business is to study how to identify and meet impact campaigns. The Centre is not part of NATO's command structure and has no operational activities. Over the past year, MSB and some other Swedish actors have actively collaborated with the Centre, for example through participation in various conferences and seminars, as well as workshops organised by the Centre. The question of Sweden's future cooperation with the Centre is now being prepared within the Government Office. The EU is also an important player in strategic communication. Within the framework of EU cooperation, Sweden supports the EU External Action Service's work on strategic communication carried out by East Stratcom.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-439	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of the Interior. I have therefore asked whether we should also formally seek membership of NATO Stratcom because – as usual, I was saying – we already seem to be involved in practical terms. The answer is that the question is still being prepared. A similar question with the same answer has also been put by Mr Wallmark. However, unlike Mr Wallmark, I do not believe that Sweden should actually or formally seek membership of NATO Stratcom. There are several reasons for that, but the ones I listed in the interpellation can be returned here. Of course, there is an enormous amount to learn from NATO's way of dealing with misinformation. Unfortunately, it is not the focus of Stratcom's work. There have been great triumphs in this area. I'm pointing in the interpellation to three. The invasion of Iraq was preceded by one of history's greatest disinformation campaigns on weapons of mass destruction. The history that legitimized the Gulf War in 1991 was that Iraq's army should have entered a hospital in Kuwait and killed children in incubators was revealed as a fraud long afterwards when the war was already a fact. A third example is when it was said that the Libyan government ordered mass rapes. Even a Libyan psychologist was quoted who claimed to have sent out 70 000 questionnaires and received 69 000 answers in a country in chaos. NATO relayed the information on the fake survey that the international media passed on. Both Amnesty and a UN report showed a few weeks later that there was no evidence whatsoever of this, but it was completely ignored. Of course, there is much to be learned from NATO in this area. NATO and NATO countries have caused three wars in the 21st century – in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya – and fueled it in Syria. Everything has been possible because they have this ideological hegemony. It is, then, that organisation that we should ultimately learn from. This is not the only Stratcom that exists, but there is also US Stratcom etcetera. I just wonder: does it not hurt a little in a Social Democratic soul – or by all means an environmentalist, if you have not pawned it entirely – that we should get into this?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-446	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the red-green government in other areas is promoting re-use. This is surely an issue in which we are really engaged in political recycling. I believe that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist already on 26 October 2015, i.e. about half a year ago, announced that there was an interest in seeing if Sweden could not establish a relationship with NATO's strategic communication centre in Riga. Then this has been repeated at regular intervals. Among other things, it was said in People and Defense. It's been in interviews. I've asked you some written questions. And in conclusion, three four weeks ago there was a big article with a big colour picture at the Minister of Interior Ygeman and Minister of Defence Hultqvist, where they once again announced that Sweden will probably join Stratcom. Therefore, my simple question to Minister Ygeman is: now that this has been said so many times, why has it not yet been done? Why not go from words to deeds? Of course, it is good that Mr Henriksson from the Left is involved in this interpellation debate. The suspicion, aversion and bubbling American hatred that lie in his questions are, of course, things represented by the Swedish political left – by the Left Party, by the Green Party and certainly also by Social Democrats. Those of us who think it is a good idea that Sweden should join NATO's strategic communication centre wonder why it takes so long. Then, of course, a reasonable answer is that these are concessions that may be given to the internal left forces, to the Left Party and to the Green Party. It would therefore be good if the Minister for the Interior could answer why there is such a lack of tempo on this issue. Then I would like to comment on the second interpellation. Mr President, I think it is serious to label this strategic centre as a propaganda centre. In fact, I am genuinely surprised that the Minister for the Interior does not mark against that choice of words, not least because the Government nevertheless expresses the ambition that we should be involved. What Stig Henriksson does is mislead. If you can see where we are in the Baltic Sea region, you can see that a new, severely deteriorating normal image has been established. We see it in the form of provocations and incidents and in the form of misinformation, propaganda and outright falsification of history. Then it's important to keep your cards straight. We shall label propaganda as propaganda, and we shall see what it looks like in our Baltic region. This is the strength of the NATO Strategic Communications Centre in Riga. When dealing with misinformation and falsification of history, it is not our own lies or propaganda that we should fabricate, but we should facilitate truth and facts to come forward. When the lie is a weapon, the truth is a countermeasure.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-455	Mr President, I would like to The exchange of views between Members Henriksson and Wallmark is certainly interesting. In a slightly smokier room and over other drinks it would be nice to hear if they could agree on the view of the United States, NATO and other countries in our world. But when we discuss Swedish security policy, Swedish civil defence and our relationship with Stratcom, that debate is somewhat superfluous, and I will not interfere with it. We will cooperate with countries in our neighbourhood, including in the civilian field, also with countries that are part of NATO and in structures linked to NATO. As I said in my interpellation response, we have agreed on this widely across party boundaries in the defence agreement. I think we have a lot to learn from others, but we can also help to learn other things about how to deal with these issues. However, this is a process that must be orderly and that must be done in such a way that it has the greatest benefit for Sweden. Therefore, preparations are ongoing within the Government Office. Perhaps I can please one Member and give the other Member a somewhat more sad message and tell him that this process of preparation will be completed shortly. As I understand it, four questions were put to me, one by Mr Henriksson and three by Mr Wallmark. Henriksson asked me: Does this not cut into a social democratic or environmental-partisan heart? The latter I find difficult to answer, but to that earlier I can answer: No, it does not. It is good that we are developing this type of cooperation in our neighbourhood. I imagine the same applies to the other party in the cooperation government. Hans Wallmark asked when. The answer will be: shortly. He also asked at what level and how cooperation should take place. I guess we'll just have to wait for the preparation to be completed. Then we will be able to answer all the details and also be able to discuss services and contributions from the Swedish side. His Wallmark's last question was possibly of a more rhetorical nature: why has the government been dragging its feet? The answer to that question is simply that we have not done so. For this to be good, for all aspects to be investigated and for us to have as good a result as possible in our relationship to Stratcom, it has taken these weeks, a few months.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-461	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I have some concerns about a bad knee, so I cannot, unfortunately, lower myself to the level of Mr Wallmark in the debate, with the debate on America's hatred and the naive view of NATO. I would like to refer to another thread, because there are other reasons to question NATO's Stratcom. It is said that it is a centre of excellence, and then you normally expect it to be strongly research-based, and Stratcom tries to live up to expectations through an academic journal that is presented with the customary honorary term It has in itself only come out with a single number so far, but somewhere you have to start. The interesting thing is that this first issue does not begin with a heavy academic contribution from any esteemed international university. Instead, it's a Mr. Timothy Thomas who signs the headingRussia It then turns out that Mr. Thomas is a retired lieutenant colonel who now works for the U.S. military. Most other authors in this issue also do not seem to have significant research qualifications. A list of Entrepreneur & Ex ecutive Coach is listed, another leads the company Applied Futures and a third is a Psychological Operations Specialist with the US Army. It's you! Of the contributions, three out of eight are on some kind of scientific basis. That's not what you expect from an international centre of excellence. Of course, it may be good to get news and news from practitioners, but that is not in line with the business description. You always have to weigh the cost against the benefit of getting into business, especially when spending taxpayers' money. It also includes the alternative use of funds available. I would say that any Swedish university could produce a better and more stringent journal. Then you want to ask the West Götten: Is it expensive?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-466	Mr President, I would like to My good colleague in the Committee on Defence, Stig Henriksson, said that he would try to avoid lowering his level. I think he did a pretty good job anyway. With regard to the Strategic Centre for Communication in Riga, the government has repeatedly said that the issue is being prepared and that it will happen in the near future. I guess I'll have to believe the Minister for Home Affairs this time, not least because I've done some research myself. I have met with representatives of the Swedish Civil Protection Agency. It feels something firmer and more reliable. From what I understand, MSB has also offered the right qualified skills and knowledge that could be added very well to Stratcom. Mr President, I would like to This means that, after all, there is reason to believe that this time, perhaps, the Minister for the Interior is very close to the truth, namely that it is being prepared in the Government Office and that decisions are being taken. However, the Minister for the Interior can be asked to take Mr Henriksson's question seriously with some clarity. Is it just like some kind of associated? Or should you just have some kind of corresponding membership? Or should you really join Stratcom? I think that's an important difference. Then Henriksson and I draw completely different conclusions from it. Henriksson wants you to avoid it. Personally, I want us to fully join in marking the relationship that we have. I also believe that there is every reason for us to take a serious look at the threat that exists in the Baltic Sea region. In addition to provocations, incidents, air restrictions and underwater activities, it is about the real threat of intelligence, but also about the threat of propaganda, misinformation and the counterfeiting of history. I visited the Riga Centre myself a couple of months ago and got information about different forms of lies– it is unclear exactly what academic level the person had, but I think it was reliable information. There were letters that even bore the signature of the Swedish Minister of Defence. It means we shouldn't be inconspicuous. This is pretty serious. It is therefore important that Sweden has the competence and ability to handle even the battle field. Lies are one of many tools in the current battle in the Baltic Sea region. That is why, Mr President, I personally and the Moderates have been anxious that we should show our interest and also our involvement in this quite clearly. I would like to emphasise that I think it is important and valuable for Sweden to be included in the centre. And in fact, I think the Minister for Home Affairs is on track: it is approaching the minute you arrive. But then it has been, I think, quite a long time since the first proclamation came, late in October 2015. I think that these important issues could be dealt with more quickly.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-475	Mr President, I would like to If a quarter is long or short, there may be differences of opinion. I would probably argue that in Swedish, it is the right time to make sure to get a well-founded basis and a good way to join. If your knees hurt, you should cycle according to the doctor's recommendation. I will refrain from reviewing any of the debaters as to whether they are just out of their way. But Stig Henriksson asked me a question. The question was whether it costs anything. Yes, it costs. There's a membership fee. But it also costs in the form that we in Sweden contribute with second-hand staff to the center when we are members, as well as others. If we are to participate in Stratcom, we naturally want a leading position within Stratcom in order to be able to contribute to the best of our ability but also to be able to take part in the Centre's work in the best possible way. I believe that Mr Wallmark is also on the verge of the truth when he says that this message will come shortly.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-478	Mr President, I would like to Yes, lying is one of many tools, as Hans Wallmark says. Some of them I listed here, those which Hans Wallmark and his party can rarely mention, even though they have involved hundreds of thousands of deaths in different countries. No, let us not be naive, Mr President! Wallmark doesn't like the word propaganda centre either. But I have tried to find out what the objective is of NATO's Stratcom, in their own words. However, it is my own translation. Please listen to the words for the goals! It is a question of promoting NATO's military objectives and objectives for the public through the media in order to raise awareness and understanding of military aspects of the Alliance. It is about the coordination of military information activities to create the desired effect on the will, understanding and ability to support the Alliance's activities, missions and objectives. These are planned psychological activities, with the help of communication and other means, aimed at the public to influence perceptions, attitudes and behaviours that affect political and military objectives. It is a question of building public awareness, understanding and support, in close and lasting cooperation with NATO, of NATO's policies, actions and other activities in all relevant target groups. Listen to those words! Nor is it a problem for the Minister that this is what we should ally ourselves with? We shall also invest in Euro-Atlantic values. Oh, is that Turkey's? Is that the new Polish government? How are Euro-Atlantic values defined today? Is it possibly Donald Trumps, the real head of the upcoming NATO in the worst case? Unfortunately, it's not Stoltenberg, it's the President of the United States. How do we monitor this, and is it really a company that it feels okay to be part of?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-482	Mr President, I would like to The red-red exchanges between the Left Party and the Social Democrats I intend to leave behind. I believe, however, that the whole list that Stig Henriksson made could be boiled down to: What is propaganda, disinformation and the counterfeiting of history about? It is a question of spreading uncertainty, concern and, in some cases, ambiguities and ambiguities. Then I think it is very important that we take part in the work to combat this in our neighbourhood. Mr President, I would like to I do not think there is a contradiction between what we do together with friends and allies in the centre in Riga and what needs to be done in Sweden by Swedish authorities. Knowledge, exchange of experience and personal knowledge can be beneficial both in Riga and in Sweden. But it is important to also emphasise the importance of Swedish competence. I think it is a good thing that we will receive this message in the near future, although I would like to say once again that I think we have been dragging our legs. Mr President, I would like to The Minister for the Interior revealed in his previous speech that he is a child of the Swedish school. The period from October 26, when the proclamation came, to today, May 17, is not a quarter. It's probably more than six months. A quarter could have been a good time. But when six months go by, you start pulling your legs. The government needs more alertness than that.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-486	Mr President, I would like to I'll have to crawl to the cross and acknowledge my lack of Kalendari duties in this case. Six months is closer to the truth than a quarter. Right should be right. I cannot even blame the fact that during part of my childhood it was a bourgeois school, but I must take full responsibility for this mistake myself. One could, of course, suspect Stratcom and also the other parts of NATO with which we cooperate. However, we must work with countries in our neighbourhood on the issue of civil defence. Of course, there can be criticism and discussion of this cooperation. But the question from Stig Henriksson was: How should we ensure this? This is done by having a Swede in senior position in these organisations. That is also our goal in this work.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-488	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me what I intend to do to reduce the number of accidents caused by drunk driving. Furthermore, he has asked whether I believe that the police authorities give the right priority to their resources. Finally, Sten Bergheden has asked what I intend to do to increase the number of sobriety checks carried out by the police. Road safety work is a self-evident and important part of the work of the Political Authority. The aim is first and foremost to help reduce the number of road deaths and injuries and to provide safety for road users. In addition, the Police Authority will also detect and prevent other crime in the traffic environment. Sobriety is checked at each driver's and vehicle's control and is a task carried out by all police officers in external service. In each police region there are also both police officers and specially trained car inspectors who specialize in the control of professional traffic. The possibility of effective control activities has in the past been limited by the fact that powers, responsibilities and priorities have been subject to decisions of the respective police authorities. This restriction has not been in place since 1 January 2015, when the new Police Authority started operations. The Police Authority now has the opportunity to make the necessary decisions to create a uniform control activity, clearer priorities for tasks and an efficient allocation of resources across the country. However, greater security on our roads is not just a police issue but requires preventive action from the whole of society. In order to make more efficient use of society's resources, a trial with automatic sobriety checks in ports has recently been carried out, so-called alco-boms. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to prepare the introduction of alco-boms in three to five ports that are deemed suitable for this purpose. An interim report of the assignment shall be submitted to the Government Office no later than 31 October 2016. It is the responsibility of the Police Authority to assess how many traffic police officers and car inspectors are needed to carry out the tasks of the Police Authority in the field of traffic and how the overall resource is to be used. This also applies to the responsibility to ensure that the supply of skills is balanced in relation to the needs of the business. On 29 February, the Police Authority submitted a budget statement to the Government. The Agency's assessment is that the number of police employees needs to increase by 3 300 by 2020. This, according to the Authority's assessment, requires an additional funding of SEK 3.9 billion. The Government intends to closely monitor the development of the Political Authority's ability to fulfil its mission.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-495	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I recognise most of the wordings in the answer after the questions and interpellations on the subject I have put before. What I am actually asking is the answer to what we are going to do about the concerns of professional drivers in particular when they see intoxicated truck drivers and others causing accidents and the risk of accidents with their behaviour. It is also about those who drive from our ports noticeably drunk. Some are stopped, which is great, but it seems that the problem is much bigger out on the road. Mr President, I would like to The situation is serious. Every day we see traces of this. We see that trucks have driven in the ditch, and it can be seen that the driver has been drunk. The next step is that these 40 - 60 - ton trucks come across the wrong side because of the driver's intoxication and cause a real disaster with buses, schoolchildren and other things involved. In some way we must help to get this off the road. The reason I put these questions to the Minister is because I want a better answer than it is the police leadership that prioritises and works on this. As I understand it, the Minister thinks that is enough. But that is not enough, and I think the Minister knows that too. We need more controls on our roads. Approximately 60 to 70 people are killed each year and about 1,000 people are injured as a result of traffic alcohol. The reduced number of breath samples is a major reason for this. I know the police have a lot to do, but it is quite dramatic to reduce the number of breath samples from 123 000 in January 2015 to 31 000 in January 2016. So there are only a quarter so many. This means that there are a lot of people who are not being tested out on the road anymore. Mr President, I would like to Does the Minister think the situation is satisfactory? Does the Minister think that the number of traffic police officers and controls is sufficient? Or is the ambition to return to more traffic police and controls on our roads? What has the minister done so far to try to increase the number of traffic police? What does the Minister plan to do in the future to increase the number of traffic officers? It is about education, among other things. Is there something like that in the trunk? So to the most serious question. In the Minister's response, much of the blame is placed on the police leadership. It is responsible and will handle this while the Minister is waiting and watching. What is the Minister's responsibility for the fact that the traffic police are not working fully on our roads?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-503	Mr President, I would like to I apologize for following the laws of logic as a minister of state. If Sten Bergheden asks the same question, Sten Bergheden will get the same answer. This will also apply in the future. Which is the minister's responsibility, asks Sten Bergheden. It is that we invest more money in the police than ever before and that Sweden has more police officers than it ever had when Sten Bergheden's party ruled the country. Every day Sten Bergheden sees trucks on our roadsides that have rolled over due to drunk driving. What does Sten Bergheden have to do with that? In the official statistics we can see that the number of injured and killed in traffic is falling. Has Sten Bergheden not taken note of these figures? Sten Bergheden also asks what level of ambition I and the government have. It is to continue the positive development with fewer killed and fewer injured and better control on our roads through clapping, through regulatory improvements and through the alco-boms that unfortunately were shut down during the time of Sten Bergheden Party in the government.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-507	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the alcoboms. We ran a test and put them up in the harbours. The government has then carried out a number of investigations. An investigation is being carried out, which I believe will be completed on 31 October, and it is planned to set up alco-boms in three to five ports. The Parliament announced in an announcement that we wanted them to be set up in all ports and border stations. But the level of ambition has been reduced to three to five ports. We had equipment in this country that has been tested and driven, but from the day after tomorrow it will be in Finland for them to test it. The equipment is not even left in Sweden, if I am properly informed. This is serious given that we could use it to control some professional drivers and other drivers who get in the car without being completely sober. Of course, there aren't trucks in the ditch every day. I made a mistake. But we're getting reports of drivers pulling off with alcohol in their bodies. They have drunk at parties and boats before they get in the truck or car and drive out on our Swedish roads without controls. The risk of accidents is increasing because they know that the number of sobriety checks on our roads is down to almost a quarter of the number of controls we had before. This sends out completely the wrong signals in terms of the safety and security we need on the roads. I am surprised by the Minister's reply. The Minister also says that I will receive the same answer all the time. It is possible, Mr President. But I am not satisfied with the answer, because we currently have too few traffic police and sobriety checks on our roads. The only thing the Minister answers is that it will continue to be so. We've never had so many cops before, but we don't have them on the roads anymore, we've got them anywhere else. My ambition with the interpellation was to find out if the minister has any desire to increase the number of traffic police. Has the Minister planned to increase the number of training courses and ensure that there will be more traffic police on our roads? What responsibility does the Minister have for this actually being implemented and for us to get more policemen on our roads? If it is the case that the Minister does not have a higher level of ambition than that, I must thank you for the answer, but I think that this seems to be a little too low level of ambition given the low number of exhalation tests and that there are still no alcoboms at our border stations. Then there is the next step, and that is the dissatisfaction of the police. It is also a serious matter. If traffic police and others stop their duties, the police authorities must of course assume their responsibilities in that situation. But the Minister should also be concerned if professionals leave their positions because they are no longer satisfied with the work where they may have worked for 30 to 40 years. It should be interesting for the minister to look over that part. We can't have this. We should be doing something both to keep the police behind and to get more traffic police on our roads.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-518	Mr President, I would like to If, after 40 years of service, you choose to leave the police, as Sten Bergheden says, you are likely to retire. I think that's a good idea after you've worked for 40 years in the police force and trained for a profession. The ambition is that the development should continue: fewer injured and killed on our roads and better control by doing the controls in the right place and having better and tougher tools than they had when Sten Bergheden's party ruled Sweden. When the Moderates ruled Sweden, the alcoboms in our ports were taken down. In the port of Gothenburg – Sweden's largest port – they ended up in a box in a container, and now they are in Finland. When the cooperation government controls Sweden, alco-boms are built up, and they will stay there, in the ports, and not like during Sten Bergheden's time end up in a warehouse after a little while because the state funding is missing. I have to ask Sten Bergheden once again, because he makes it up again and again – now there were no checks on our roads when you went out. Is there something wrong with the official statistics? Doesn't the number of casualties drop on our roads? Doesn't the number of people killed go down on our roads? I would like to ask Sten Bergheden that, because it sounds like the opposite. As far as the turnover of police personnel is concerned, we currently have a turnover of less than 1% within the Police Authority. We have 28,000 employees, more than it ever was when the Moderates were in charge of the Police Department. Perhaps Sten Bergheden in the minutes of the House could read the staff turnover of the Moderate Parliamentary Office so that we can compare it with the police and see how big the problem is in the police and the Moderate Parliamentary Office?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-523	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. Obviously, the Minister is not concerned that there are as many police officers as they do and that there is concern in the matter. As long as it scares me, given that it's not good when cops stop because they no longer enjoy the business. This certainly reduces the whole atmosphere around and lowers the work level for many others in the business. I think the Minister should take this a little more seriously than trying to compare it with how many end up in a political party. If there are any who end up in a political party, it will not affect road safety on our roads, but ending in the police will. It is precisely out there that people die for the reason that they kill themselves or something else because of alcohol. These are the figures I am looking for when I mention this interpellation. We still have 60 to 70 people a year who die from alcohol-related accidents, and we have over 1,000 people injured. The Minister clearly believes that we should be able to bear this. I want us to lower that part. We must reduce alcohol on our roads. That is why we have put forward proposals on alcoboms and other things. In fact, in order to correct the minister when it comes to the alcoboms, we had them set up in Gothenburg for a trial period. Then we moved them to Frihamnen in Stockholm for a new trial period. When it was finished, the government – the Social Democrats – took them down, and now they are in Finland. It is quite good to know about it, so that we get it right in the Minutes about where the alcoboms have gone and who has sent them to Finland. Minister! I would like an answer to the question: is the Minister satisfied with the situation on our roads, and does the Minister want more traffic police to get more control and better order on our roads?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-530	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden's ambition is commendable, but it is the police who should be the police. It is the police chiefs who will decide on the scope and methods of the mission, not Sten Bergheden and not me. It is the end of detail control from Stockholm and stick hunting that means that the police do not go according to what is most effective in reducing traffic mortality or alcohol on the roads, but according to what looks best in statistics – statistics that Sten Bergheden can then wave in this Chamber. While we are on the statistics: If five times more people end up in the Moderate Parliament Office than in the police, is the crisis and discontent five times greater in the Moderate Office than in the police? How great is the crisis and disaster in the Moderates because of the terrible staff turnover that Sten Bergheden is talking about? Can't we find out? How does he view staff turnover at his own office? Is it catastrophic if it is 500 per cent higher than in the police, or is it possible to live with the staff turnover that the Moderates have on their parliamentary offices? That would be good to know. We want the result to govern. It is therefore important that the number of people killed and injured on our roads is reduced, that we have active work against alcohol, that we stop alcohol in our ports and that for the first time in Sweden's history we will have permanent alcoboms in the main ports. Sten Bergheden should be pleased and applauded for that.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-534	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson what implicit guarantees the state gives to the banks and how much of the public finances these guarantees represent. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. Implicit guarantees to banks are hardly such as the State promises, but rather the consequence of the expectations of market participants that the State would not allow systemically important banks to fail. The State is expected to guarantee the bank's survival and thereby implicitly guarantee the value of the creditors' claims on the bank, which in turn leads to lower financing costs for the bank. Market participants' expectations should reasonably have changed after the EU crisis management directive was implemented in Swedish law through, among other things, the Resolution Act, which entered into force on 1 February this year. Resolution means that the State takes control of, for example, a failing bank in order to reconstruct or liquidate it in an orderly manner. The legislation is designed in such a way that it is primarily the bank's owner and lender – not the taxpayer – who will bear the losses incurred by the bank. It will reduce incentives for financial market players to take excessive risk. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the new framework for bank crisis management allows for state support measures, although the scope for such measures is limited. These may include, for example, preventive state aid or capital injections and temporary state ownership in the context of a resolution. In addition, Sweden's good experience with state aid measures and the efforts of the previous government in the negotiations on the crisis management directive to enable such measures can reinforce market participants' expectations that the state will rescue a failing large bank using public funds. The new regulatory framework will contribute to both preventing stability risks and improving preparedness for action in the event of major problems in the financial system. Better regulation and a more stable position in the financial markets in recent years have decreased, but probably not completely eliminated, the value of e n implicit government guarantee. There is, of course, full agreement between me and Magdalena Andersson.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-542	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Per Bolund, for your answer. I would also like to thank Per Bolund for the integrity and clarity of his response to interpellations. It is welcome and important for the subject matter being discussed, and it is of course important for the overall democratic interaction. Per Bolund has to deal with a very important issue for Sweden – it is a very important issue for all countries – in the form of financial stability. It is perhaps not what is on the banners in the May Day trains or what is most asked about in the election cottages. It may even be something that never gets the greatest space in our newspapers. If, on the other hand, it does not work, the problems are all the greater in terms of human suffering, but on the way there is an inability to finance welfare, an inability to create growth in society and an inability to maintain employment and create new jobs. Sweden is exposed, as Per Bolund knows, because Sweden has a traditional and historically large financial sector. It is one of the major financial sectors in relation to GDP among developed countries. This, of course, places great demands on us to ensure, with zeal and honesty, that we have order and order in these systems and that we can manage the risks that exist but also that we can deal with the problems that arise. When international actors have assessed and evaluated Sweden, the very discipline that the Alliance Government inculcated against the banks was an important explanation that Sweden was able to withstand the effects of the crisis well. There is built into these systems, on which most assessors agree, an excessive greed, the pursuit of profits or occasionally speed blindness that could jeopardise stability and the basis for job growth, employment growth and economic growth across the country. It is therefore a good thing, and something that I welcome, that the Minister continues the work that the Alliance Government has begun in this area. Having said that, this is precisely about order and order. And, Mr President, it may seem a little unfair to make Per Bolund responsible for what Magdalena Andersson writes in debate articles. This interpellation was originally put to Magdalena Andersson. But the government judged that the government is so divided that it is Per Bolund who will answer this interpellation anyway. That is why I would like to put this question to Mr Per Bolund. In the light of the hopefully broad consensus that exists on order and order in relation to financial stability, it is worrying when the protocols of the Stability Council and the Minister for the Financial Market state that, with the new rules now in place indirectly, this form of implicit guarantees no longer exists, but now the banks and their owners themselves bear full responsibility for the financial risk that exists. It is regulated by tariffs and percentage points. You're supposed to pay money, you're supposed to fund cash that you're supposed to have access to, and so on. In addition to this mechanism, which means that the owners, which is the key, and not the taxpayers, bear the ultimate responsibility. Yet the Minister for Finance strongly argues for new taxes on banks. It can certainly be reasonable to tax the financial sector in a way that we do not yet do. That is not what I am opposed to, but that the motive for this is the implicit guarantees. If the motive for a new tax is the implicit guarantees, it is worrying that the government seems to have different views as to whether these implicit guarantees exist. And if these implicit guarantees justify a tax, the government should also have an idea of the scope and size of these implicit guarantees. According to the Minister for Financial Markets, how much money have taxpayers risked in Swedish banks?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-551	Mr President, I would like to I thank Niklas Wykman for the interpellation and for also inculcating the importance of us having good financial market regulation and ensuring that we build a high level of security in the Swedish financial system. As Niklas Wykman points out, the Swedish financial market is very large in relation to our bnp. It is therefore particularly important that we have clear and strong rules for the financial market that ensure that we also assume our responsibilities and that we do not incur risks that can actually affect the entire Swedish economy and thus many important social functions. I would like to begin with the correct picture that Niklas Wykman is trying to give of the argument that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has had. If Niklas Wykman had read and referred to the entire debate article, he would have seen that there are a number of good reasons to remove the right to deduct interest on subordinated loans. In the article, Magdalena Andersson points out several reasons, including the fact that the sector is tax-friendly – she seems to share the latter with the former Minister of Finance, who described it quite a lot during her time in the government – but also that it increases the resilience of Swedish banks and financial institutions by reducing this possibility of deducting subordinated debt. The reason why this is a relevant proposal is that certain subordinated liabilities may be included in the own funds of institutions under the EU Supervisory Regulation and under the Solvency II Directive. Such subordinated liabilities should reasonably be treated as equity also in the context of taxation. Therefore, interest expenses on debts should also not be deducted. The proposal therefore also increases the fiscal neutrality between equity financing on the one hand and subordinated debt financing in the financial sector on the other. This also gives companies in the financial sector stronger incentives to increase the robustness of their business. This will also give them greater resilience. It is important to see that one of the reasons why we are now making this big change in how we look at how to save banks that end up in major problems and crisis is that we of course see great risks in that taxpayers are constantly taking the last risk and being those who are always in the end willing to go in and cover up if there is a failure in the banking system. That's why we're making a big effort. I am very proud that we are now spending a lot of time and effort on reducing the risk to taxpayers, that is to say, to ensure that banks primarily turn to their shareholders and their lenders to ensure that they cover up through those who have actually taken the risks in the business. I think that is a very important and reasonable principle. One of the reasons why, however, it cannot be said that the implicit bank guarantee is currently completely decommissioned is the entry of the previous government into the negotiations within the EU when these directives were drawn up and where they put in quite a lot of time and effort and fought for there to be an opportunity despite the new regulations to enter the state and take the last responsibility if things go wrong all the way. Now it sounds a little bit at Niklas Wykman like he thinks it is problematic if the state should take such an implicit guarantee. Then perhaps one can question why the previous government acted in this way and so strongly acted so that this possibility would remain in the new directive. I am very pleased that the directive that is now being introduced increases the demands on banks and their owners very much, so that it is there that the great effort is made to take responsibility for having a functioning business and for them to take responsibility when the banks are failing. This means that we are now significantly reducing the implicit bank guarantee. This is something that I think is a very positive development and that I hope we have a broad consensus on in the Swedish Parliament.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-559	Mr President, I would like to Much has happened in this area during the time of the alliance government – the Stability Council and more. Much happened at EU level – Basel III and so on. New regulations came into place – for example, a resolution fund and the funding of the deposit guarantee. Mr President, I would like to However, it gets a little confused here when the Minister for the Financial Market places a debt on what he says is an implicit guarantee on the Alliance Government and the position that we had in the negotiations with the European Union. If the Minister for Financial Markets believes in what he himself says, I wonder if he has even understood how the regulatory framework is designed and works, and that is worrying. The reason why Sweden was running this position was precisely because taxpayers' money would not be put at risk by ending up in a situation where one would risk having to save the shareholders of the banks without instead having the possibility to enter the state, take over the bank and ensure that the assets of the shareholders become worthless and thus secure the financial system without saving those who have invested money in the bank. The ambition was, of course – where we reached the goal – to ensure that taxpayers' money would not be put at risk, i.e. that there would not be an implicit guarantee for the shareholders of the banks, but that the guarantee would be that the functionality of the financial system would be maintained even during a time of crisis and that the interests of savers would be safeguarded. Mr President, I would like to This is the regulatory framework. The second part of this is funding, where fees for banks, resolution funds and more have been calibrated to ensure that the risk is borne. If the Minister for the Financial Market believes that there is an implicit guarantor left in the State side in this, then that means that these charges of various kinds are too low and do not live up to the risk picture taken by the banks. In such cases, the Minister of Finance should want to raise them rather than risk taxpayers' money if the Minister of Finance, like the Minister of Finance, honestly and honestly believes that these guarantees exist. Mr President, I would like to If the guarantees, as the Minister for the Financial Market says, really exist, then the state has put a risk to the taxpayer. It has been said: This is how much money you risk if one or more of the Swedish banks suffer serious problems. It is therefore not unreasonable, Mr President, to also ask for an estimate or assessment of the extent of that risk – how much money it covers in such cases. To say in such a serious matter a little loosely that there is an implicit guarantee and then not quantify that guarantee in any way creates great uncertainty. This applies not only to market participants, banks and more, but also, of course, to those who, according to the Minister for the Financial Market, bear the risk. They're the ones who go to work and pay their taxes... who, according to the Minister for the Financial Market, are still, despite the rules that have come in place, obviously to bear responsibility for banks that don't behave.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-567	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that it will be a little strange to hear from Niklas Wykman, who is nevertheless the representative of the party that led the Ministry of Finance during the last parliamentary term and conducted dialogue with and negotiations within the EU on precisely the crisis management directive and how to deal with banks in crisis. We are now fully committed to reducing the risks to taxpayers and the state. The whole regulatory framework is aimed at reducing the risks as far as possible. It sounds like the previous government was trying to reduce the risks, but we know that in reality it was trying to negotiate precisely the possibility for the state to go in and take over banks in crisis. That's what Niklas Wykman says. It is obvious to all assessors that anyone who is prepared to go in and take over a bank is also taking a risk. You take over debts and the like to make the financial system work. As I said, we are doing a great deal to try to reduce the risk of taxpayers going in. That's our main focus. I note that by introducing the directive and making the National Debt Office the resolution authority, debt write-downs are the main tool if a credit institution or investment company is no longer able to cope with its activities and is viable. The new regulatory framework therefore gives financial market players every reason to carry out very thorough risk assessments when making their investments. However, due to the way the previous government conducted the negotiations, State aid measures may also be considered. The reason for this is that Sweden, among other things, negotiated some flexibility in the EU crisis management directive. It can hardly come as a surprise to Niklas Wykman that this flexibility exists, because he is a member of a party that was part of the government that actually pushed this through. So the surprise and almost indignation I note at Niklas Wykman I feel may not be quite right placed in this case. I think it is very good that we now have a crisis management directive in place and that we have principles of resolution for the banks. This actually means that we can clearly transfer responsibility and risk to those who get the banks' profits and to some extent they are the ones who control how the banks are managed. That is why I think it is important to ensure that they have to take a great deal of responsibility. If a bank is in crisis, it is primarily the shareholders who have to cover the losses incurred, and debt write-downs are a tool. This means that it is only after many other, major steps have been taken that it is at all up to the state to go in and make efforts. I think that's a good principle. You have to have high shelters, and you have to make sure that those who take the risks and also do the profits are the ones who have to take responsibility for the bank even when things go bad. It is also important to point out that Sweden obviously follows the same regulatory framework as the rest of the EU Member States do. We have no special rules that apply in Sweden, but they are the same rules that apply in this case as well. As a result, Sweden's ability to provide State aid is as circumscribed by the EU acquis as any other Member State. I also think that this is a good principle, because financial activities are often international and players are in many different markets. It is therefore a good thing that common rules have been agreed within the EU. Niklas Wykman asks how much of the public finances constitute the implicit guarantee. I do not think it makes sense to speculate on it, but the important thing to note is that debt write-downs are now the main tool if a credit institution or investment firm is no longer viable. I think that is a sound principle. This is the focus of the financial market players.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-575	Mr President, I would like to Per Bolund is trying to put pears, apples and bananas in the same account, and it is not going so well. Per Bolund now has the chance to find out whether he thinks it is good or bad that this flexibility exists on behalf of Sweden. It exists because Sweden has a successful history of dealing with banks in crisis, and it is important to safeguard that principle. By acting as Sweden has done under moderate-led governments, it has not had to pay for this with taxpayers' money; on the contrary, it has received back the money, and more, by taking over the ownership of banks. Thus, shareholders and those who have taken excessive risks – and profited from high risk – cannot be saved. This is the underlying and fundamental reason why Sweden has flexibility. It is not to increase the implicit guarantee but to reduce it, to secure taxpayers' money. Taxpayers should not pass their money on to shareholders who have made profits on excessive risk-taking in bank shares. I don't want that reality. I wonder whether Per Bolund would like to get rid of the flexibility of the regulatory framework. Is that Per Bolund's point? If it is not Per Bolund's opinion, the question remains whether the fees from the banks are too low. If there is an implicit guarantee on the part of the State, as the Minister for the Financial Market claims, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for the Financial Market claim that the regulation that is now in place precisely to prevent it from being so miscalibrated. If so, is there an ambition to recalibrate the regulatory framework, so that taxpayers will no longer – at the initiative of Magdalena Andersson and Per Bolund – bear this risk?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-579	Mr President, I would like to I think there is reason to repeat what I said in my introductory statement. It doesn't seem to have really come through. The implicit guarantee is a consequence of market participants' expectations based on the current regulatory framework we have. Although the EU crisis management directive is now implemented in Sweden, the implicit guarantee is unlikely to be completely deleted. Since it is impossible to know what the next shock to the financial system in Sweden will be like, we also negotiated, under the leadership of the Alliance Government during the previous term of office, a degree of flexibility in the crisis management directive when it was developed. This flexibility has been implemented in Swedish law now. It includes rules on state stabilisation tools and preventive state aid. Together with the good experiences Niklas Wykman refers to, this has led to a reinforced expectation from market participants that the government will take responsibility. For example, there are rating agencies which assume that Sweden should be allowed to provide State aid to its banks to a greater extent than other Member States. Here I think it is important to emphasise that Sweden follows the same regulations as other actors. We are not making other considerations, but we are using the same regulatory framework as other EU Member States do. In this way, Sweden does not differ. On the other hand, Sweden differs in how well we protect the Swedish economy from risks in the financial sector, including the resolution reserve. It is being built up precisely to deal with crises and to deal with companies that end up in a resolution. We build that reserve extra high in Sweden, and we do it extra fast to be able to have shelters and ensure that we do not take risks unnecessarily, because we have a large financial sector. I think that is a good principle, and it makes me proud to say that we are currently effectively reducing the implicit bank guarantee. I also think that this is a good step forward.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-585	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me whether I am ready to make permanent exceptions in detailed plans, rules and building standards for youth housing in the same way as for asylum homes. The Government decided in the autumn of 2015 on changes to the planning and construction regulation with the aim of facilitating the placement of the large number of people who applied for asylum in Sweden. The changes in the regulation relate to temporary construction housing and mean that a municipality, in its role as a regulatory authority, should disregard requirements for energy, water and waste management, and that certain other requirements for buildings should be adapted to the requirements of the individual case. Since 1 July 2014, the concept of youth housing has no longer been regulated by law. Boverket's building regulations were then amended on several points in order to make it possible to build dwellings with smaller areas by means of renovation or renovation. Compared to the previous rules, it is now sufficient that, for example, there is room for a bed that can also be used as a sofa or for a table that can be used alternately as a dining area and workplace. Thus, a dwelling can be built within an area of approximately 21 square metres according to current regulations and with accessibility for persons with reduced mobility. On 1 July 2014, a definition of student housing was also introduced in Boverket's building regulations. A student residence is, when it comes to construction, a dwelling intended for students at a university or higher education institution. In such dwellings, even more functions of the dwelling can be provided within the same space and a student dwelling can therefore be built within an area of about 16 square metres. The requirements for detailed plans, their application and the possibility of exceptions, are not regulated by the Government or Boverket, unlike the construction rules. They are regulated by law and applied directly by municipalities. The government shares the view that more housing needs to be built, not least housing that young people can afford to live in. Therefore, the government introduces investment aid aimed at small climate-smart apartments with a requirement for affordable rentals. The government will also continue its efforts to change the planning and construction rules in order to simplify, promote competition and shorten the time from idea to finished home. We are prepared to continue developing housing policy until the building act meets the needs of the housing market. To this end, the government has invited five opposition parties to the housing talks currently under way.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-592	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Nice to meet you. It was a few years ago that we stood here and debated with each other. Then the roles were slightly changed. Reality has changed since then. What we are seeing today, the migration flows to Sweden, places great demands on Sweden's ability to also meet people's needs for a dignified and well-functioning housing. It is good that steps have been taken to ensure that more housing is provided to people who really need it and that there have been some regulatory simplifications in connection with the establishment of housing for new arrivals. I put a written question last winter to the Minister's representative, Mehmet Kaplan, about the changes in the rules of the Planning and Construction Act that the Government intended to take. I did not get much of an answer then, but I came back to the riot in a Question Time where I was kindly given the floor by the President to ask this question. There was not a much clearer answer there, so then I thought I would have a debate with the Minister. And I am pleased that it is Per Bolund who is standing here, because I expect that there will now be clear and clear answers. I made a small clarification of my question to apply to youth housing and not just in general what changes to the Planning and Construction Act the government intends to make. Thank you for your answer. Again, it was not very clear what changes the government intends to make. The examples of changes presented here by Per Bolund are much of what happened during the time of the alliance government. The concept of youth housing, which no longer exists, and that Boverket's building rules were changed was the alliance government that was behind it. The definition of student housing and the possibility of building them in a simpler way was also the cause of the alliance government. I'm very curious about what the government's agenda is here. You say you want talks with five opposition parties. I guess it's pretty good to face that kind of conversation showing the cards and telling you what's your intentions. It will then be a little easier to prepare for those talks, because it is a challenge that we have to be able to get more housing in Sweden. Sweden is a society where there are very many single households, i.e. there is a need for more housing per capita here than it does in many other countries. If the average family includes four people, less housing is needed than if the average dwellings contain 1.3 people, which is roughly the case in Sweden. This means that we can no longer just talk about making simplifications for asylum seekers and for young people. I'm looking for us to have permanent regulatory simplifications for all kinds of housing. Today, one of the major social problems which reduces mobility is the exclusion of people from looking for work elsewhere because of the lack of housing. I therefore ask the question again: what concrete simplifications does the government want to make?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-601	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for the interpellation! I think it is an important area, and it is clear that it is very important that we do everything we can to ensure that the housing situation is much better than it is today. It is clear that there is a major shortage in many of Sweden's municipalities. At the same time, I think it is important, for this debate to be somewhat nuanced, to look at what is actually happening. It is a development in the housing market that is taking place very quickly. We have very high building numbers compared to what it has looked like in the past years. According to Boverket's forecast, 48,000 homes started to be built in 2015. This is an increase of 25 per cent from the previous year. This year the forecast is that it will start around 53 500 homes – another big step forward. The forecast also indicates that the increase will continue in the coming years. It is gratifying that there is now an increase in construction in place, that we will be better able to match the supply of housing with the high demand that exists. At the same time, although housing construction is increasing rapidly, levels are not sufficient to match population growth, not least now that a great many people have arrived in our country. Housing construction is now the highest since the 1990s, i.e. in almost 30 years, so something right I think this government is doing anyway. Then it is not that we have not taken any decisions on the part of the government, but we have come up with strong measures to ensure that there is an opportunity to increase construction. It is about incentives for the housing sector, but it is also about regulatory simplification. For example, we have shortened the appeal process, presented a new noise regulation to enable construction and invested in energy-efficient and climate-smart rental properties. This means that we now see that there is a big change in the construction of rental apartments, for example, where the commons have turned a rather long trend of decades of reduced construction into now instead increasing construction. There are therefore regulatory changes that lead to increased construction. Above all, however, I would like to highlight the biggest investment in housing policy that has been made in over 20 years. We are now investing SEK 6 billion on an annual basis to stimulate what is perhaps most needed on the market, namely small energy-efficient low-cost apartments, i.e. apartments that do not have very high rent. It is indeed an opportunity for the unoccupied young people who need to get a foothold on the housing market, but also for many of the people who have come to our country. The Government's ambition is, of course, to continue to drive development. We look at many different suggestions on how to simplify building rules and speed up construction processes. Already with the rules that exist today, there are actually great opportunities to build more, even if we look at how the municipalities actually use the regulations that exist. One example is that there are four times more per capita built in Sundbyberg than in Danderyd, so apparently some municipalities are more creative in making sure that more is built with today's building rules. I am pleased that we have taken great steps forward and developed housing policy strongly. As a result, more housing will be built with the already increased pace of construction. I am also pleased that we have housing policy talks with the opposition parties. In those talks, the parties that have been invited but also the government have put forward suggestions on how we can increase construction. I hope Mr Rothenberg will excuse us, but we think that talks on housing should be conducted around the table and that it is good if we can work out the proposals and the rules together. Therefore, it may not be best to highlight these proposals here.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-610	Mr President, I would like to It's good, Per Bolund, that you do something. I'm not saying the government won't do anything. But it would have to be done so much more. In the situation that we have in Sweden with 100 000 – 150 000 people coming to our country every year, new housing is urgently needed. Then obstacles must be demolished. We need more of an alexander cut into the system than the fine-tunings presented by the Minister here. My colleague Ewa Thalén Finné had an interpellation debate with the Minister's representative Mehmet Kaplan on these very issues. I have looked at the Minutes, and there is no clear and clear indication as to the direction in which the government wants to take this issue in order to be able to make a really substantial break-in so that there will be more housing in a fairly short time, which is needed. So what do the Moderates want to do in this context? We want a modern housing policy that provides long-term, sound rules of play. We are not prepared to go in with state subsidies to increase new production. There should be no more tax money going down in the construction companies' pockets. We want to create the conditions for a housing market where people can choose their own accommodation according to their needs during different stages of life. One of the most important stages of life is the move to the first dwelling. There is therefore a need to intervene in certain regulatory systems, to speed up the construction process, to change the possibility of appeal against building decisions, to have a private right of initiative, to compare municipalities and to reduce mandatory requirements for detailed planning. We want more detailed plans to be adopted by the building committee or the municipal board, and that is something that is in a bill ready to be adopted. The law council has said okay to this. But the government has said no. The Moderates and the Alliance have made clear intentions that we want to limit the number of persons entitled to appeal. We want to charge appeals and remove the county administrative boards as an appeal body for detailed plans and area regulations. It can shorten the process by an average of four and a half months, and it matters in a year that has twelve months when 100 000 people need new housing, when there are already young people in Sweden who need housing and we need more housing to cope with the vital and useful circulation in the labour market and in the housing market that our society needs. Then you have to do a little more than just scratch the edge. As regards student housing, in addition to shortening planning and construction processes with time limits and, in addition to relaxing the rules on technical property requirements for design rules, we want to have a review of the land availability near universities and higher education institutions in order to free up land for housing. Sweden is a large country, but there is always a shortage of land when it is to be built. The government has the opportunity to give assignments to Akademiska Hus, the state-owned company, to develop volume targets for housing construction. The possibility for universities to build and manage student housing can also be improved. It's good for campus, and it's good for the whole community to get more of it, because when a person knows where she has its roots and the security of going home after a school day or a working day, then we get a society in harmony. I am still waiting for concrete proposals.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-619	Mr President, I would like to Let us note that the construction act has increased quite considerably since this government took office. That is something we should be happy about, both Mr Rothenberg and I. Of course, we are not satisfied with this on the part of the government. We continue to work actively, and of course we have a completely different view from Mr Rothenberg on the state aid that is being introduced. By making demands that the rents of the buildings that are being built do not go up in a way that makes them difficult for people with low levels of access, it is also not as Hans Rothenberg fears: that the money, as he puts it, slides down into the clients' pockets. Instead, they will be useful in that there will be more new homes, just rental apartments that a lot of young people want, because you may not want to go into the biggest store of your life just because you need a home. You may want to be more flexible and be able to travel or do other things, for example. It is also good for those companies that are trying to recruit people who should be able to come here and work, perhaps not permanently, but only for a certain period of time. Then it is good if there is an apartment to rent during that period instead of having to go into the housing market and spend a very large amount of money. So there are major and important steps forward, and we also know historically that when there has been a large housing shortage and tried to remedy it with different types of support to make it possible to build the apartments that are primarily in demand on the housing market, it has also been functional and has had effects. However, we continue to look widely at various forms of proposals to shorten build-times and make it easier to build more. Among other things, as I said, we have looked at the appeal proceedings and removed bodies precisely in order to shorten the appeal periods. Of course, we are also looking at what conditions should apply when building houses, what requirements should be made and whether those requirements constitute obstacles that would allow us to build more by making changes. These are also issues on the table in the political talks now taking place with the government and opposition parties. If Mr Rothenberg does not trust me in this matter, then he can talk to his representatives at those meetings and see that these are the very proposals discussed in the housing policy talks. My hope there is that we will really come forward. I think it is important to nuance the debate and see that there is a big difference between buildings that should be in a place for a short period of time and buildings in which people should stay for a short period of time. I think there is some confusion in the question put by Mr Rothenberg. A hotel, for example, is a house where you generally spend quite a short time, so you can also make exceptions to building rules and, for example, have rooms that have no windows, which may not be acceptable if it is a permanent dwelling where you live for a long time. That was also what enabled us, when we made the change for asylum homes, to take steps not to make the same demands. We know that these are accommodations where people are for a limited period of time and not for a long time. That is why I think it was a correct and correct decision, which is also contained in the agreement on migration that many opposition parties agreed with the government. As far as Akademiska Hus is concerned, we can note that much more student apartments are now being built, which I think is excellent. Even there we try to see how we can create better conditions for them to build more. In opposition you can afford to throw out proposals and come up with lots of ideas while in government you have a great responsibility to ensure that the ideas that are developed are actually feasible, work and also lead to a healthy living environment. This allows the preparation times sometimes to take time, but it is important.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-629	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that transition! That is exactly what the Alliance government did: we had a ready-made bill that was just to stick on, but you said no thanks for that. You should be creative in opposition, but you should also be open and receptive when you are in the majority in order to be able to support good proposals. Housing is one of Sweden's biggest societal challenges. Housing construction needs to increase significantly, and the existing housing stock needs to be better utilised. Sweden should be a country where it is obvious that you can easily get a place to live, just as obviously as it should be that you can easily get a job. It is not reasonable to have contacts or well-established parents in order to obtain a first home, which is why we need substantial regulatory simplifications and faster processing times and planning and building permits processes. Sweden needs a policy for a long-term better functioning construction and housing markets than we have today. The Minister says that there should be reasonable rent levels, but what drives up construction costs? It is, of course, rules and regulations that often make it more expensive to build, and somewhere it has to be paid for. It is always paid by the consumer in the last resort, in this case the resident, i.e. the tenant or owner of the dwelling. Permanent changes to building rules and simplifications of planning and building processes to create more housing need not mean a deterioration. You don't have to be afraid of that. If it is the case that the Moderates and the Alliance have made good proposals in this regard, I very much hope that the talks will end in concrete and good proposals. What I was curious about, however, was to hear what the government has the input values, for them I haven't heard much about.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-634	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry about that. I think I have given clear answers that we are looking both at appeal proceedings and see where there are opportunities to shorten times and on, for example, building rules and what requirements are made for new construction. These are talks that we have in which we also listen to the opposition parties. That is what you do when you talk about important policy areas, that is, you also listen to the proposals that come from other parties. At the same time, we know that proposals must be prepared within the Government Office. I hope that Mr Rothenberg will remember this from the time of the alliance parties in the Government Office. We note that during their time in the government, the alliance parties had eight years to implement measures. Now they are calling for us to introduce permanent changes to the regulations and permanent exceptions in detailed plans, rules and building standards in order to build more. One might wonder why they did not take those initiatives in the eight years they had on their hands. We are, of course, looking at the proposals that exist. If we want to achieve a permanently improved housing market, we believe that it is better to retain the legislative power in Parliament and not to transfer it to the government as a major exception would do. Instead, changes should be made to the legislation where it is relevant in order to create opportunities for increased construction. It's the government's agenda. That is also what we are discussing in the housing policy talks. I am glad that much more housing is being built now than it did a few years ago in Sweden. This is a development that the government continues to support where we will make further proposals. I would like to see that we do so in broad collaboration in the Swedish Parliament. That is why we have also invited people to talk about housing policy. We're going in with a very constructive agenda. We'd love to find a deal. We hope that there will be the same readiness from the opposition parties. Then there are the conditions for creating a long-term and stable regulatory framework that makes it possible for developers to build much more than is being done today.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-639	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me what I intend to do, in connection with Vattenfall's lignite sales, to regain control of Vattenfall's apparent impairments and losses, how I view the purchase of the assets that Vattenfall now wants to sell and whether it was good business for the Swedish people. Niklas Wykman has also asked the Minister of Finance how the preparation of Vattenfall's ownership coordination has been handled at the Ministry of Finance and how it is expected to affect public finances. Niklas Wykman has also asked the Minister for Climate and Environment and the Deputy Prime Minister how many tonnes of carbon dioxide will be released from the business that Vattenfall is now divesting and whether the Government considers it easier or more difficult to achieve the COP 21 targets with a sale of Vattenfall's German lignite business. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who respond to the interpellations. The energy market is undergoing a paradigm shift that affects all conventional energy companies on the market while at the same time low electricity prices. The price level is based on the existence of a surplus of electricity on the market, which has a negative impact on the value of the companies' assets. The depreciation in Vattenfall is thus mainly a result of the low energy prices and amounted to just under SEK 37 billion in 2015. The main reasons for this are decisions on the early closure of reactor 1 and 2 in Ringhals(SEK 17 billion), the deterioration of margins in the German lignite business(EUR 15 billion) and the deterioration of margins in the German coal power plant Moorburg(EUR 4 billion). Low energy prices have not only affected Vattenfall. In the period 2012-2015, Eon has made write-downs of EUR 18 billion, RWE EUR 11 billion, Vattenfall EUR 11 billion, and EDF EUR 6 billion. On 18 April 2016, a request for ownership coordination was submitted to the Government Office of Vattenfall's Board of Directors regarding the sale of the lignite business in Germany to EPH and PPF Investments. Within the Government Office, work is currently underway to prepare Vattenfall's request for ownership coordination for which the Ministry of Industry is responsible. The work on joint preparation and political coordination is followed by established procedures for the work of the Government Office. Vattenfall has announced that the sale of lignite operations to EPH and PPF Investments will have a negative impact on earnings of SEK 22 – 27 billion when it is booked in the second quarter 2016. Vattenfall's assessment is that the negative performance impact would have been even greater if the transaction did not take place. Furthermore, Vattenfall has communicated that the investment in the German lignite business, carried out in 2001, despite the negative performance impact, has been in line with the company's return requirements. We will now analyse the transaction proposed by Vattenfall's Board of Directors and will return once we have taken a position. When it comes to financial savings, dividends from the company affect savings. Impairment of asset values has no direct impact on financial savings. However, a write-down affects profit and loss, and in the long run it can lead to a loss or decrease in dividends. According to the company, the negative impact will be greater if lignite operations are maintained. Lignite activities will continue to fall under German environmental rules and be covered by the EU ETS system. Germany has high climate targets and ambitious environmental regulation of environmentally hazardous activities. The countries of the world agreed in Paris that the average global temperature increase should be kept well below two degrees and that efforts should be made to limit it to 1.5 degrees. Coal-fired power plants are in principle phased out in Sweden, and in Germany too work is under way on a comprehensive phase-out of older power plants. Thus, Germany is now in a major transition of its energy system to a higher share of renewable production, which is of course very positive. The transition opens up opportunities for Vattenfall and other companies to make further investments in renewable energy. As we have said before, the government has taken important steps towards realising its ambition to make Vattenfall a leader in the transformation of the energy system towards a higher share of renewable energy. We will steer Vattenfall towards a more renewable energy system within the framework of the mandate that the Riksdag decided for the company in 2010. Vattenfall shall conduct energy activities in a commercial manner so that the company is one of the companies leading the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. The owner has appointed two new members to the Board of Directors in order to further strengthen the Board of Directors in the strategic repositioning that Vattenfall needs to do to meet market developments.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-648	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Mikael Damberg! Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is not possible to hold a debate in a few minutes on all the subjects raised by the inter-parliamentary groups. But the government has chosen to proceed in such a way that Mikael Damberg will answer questions asked both to the Minister for Finance and to the Minister for Climate Change and himself. Thereby the debate risks becoming a little messy on a Tuesday evening. More than anything else, it illustrates that Mikael Damberg has interwoven himself with a state-owned company that perhaps no other Swedish minister has previously done when Mikael Damberg assumes this very great overall responsibility for Vattenfall and its operations. This concerns its impact on public finances but also its impact on the climate as well as its internal corporate affairs. Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, a very big and serious issue. It is important that it is discussed in a transparent way where the Swedish people are given the opportunity to decide how it thinks their assets should be managed. Mr President, I would like to This is, for example, 1.2 billion, 1,200 million tonnes of emissions according to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service if you use the lignite assets in the plants that Vattenfall is now going to sell. There is so much CO2 emissions on its own that international emissions statistics would show it seriously. It is a huge environmental impact of burning up the lignite that former Social Democratic governments were involved in acquiring to Sweden. In addition, it is a very large loss deal of approximately SEK 25 billion in the result for Vattenfall, which the Minister of Economic Affairs has already reported. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is responsible for the matter, is now here and can answer the questions and give clear answers to the Swedish people about what applies. The most gratifying thing I think is the declaration that Mikael Damberg has already made on the responsibility of the state in this matter. I am thinking, in particular, of the responsibilities of all government ministers, including environmental ministers. Mikael Damberg writes:中 The government has ownership responsibility for Vattenfall and the state's other companies. The government's responsibility is collective. As in the case of companies, they are jointly responsible for each decision taken. ..................................................... Mikael Damberg therefore says very clearly to the environmental party ministers: The government has ownership responsibility for Vattenfall and the state's other companies. The government's responsibility is collective. As in the case of companies, they are jointly responsible for each decision taken. It is gratifying that the Minister for Economic Affairs is very clear on this point, that the Minister for Economic Affairs does not intend to hide in the scenes on this issue, but is clear about how responsibility for the issues of EUR 25 billion in loss of 1.2 billion tonnes in accumulated CO2 emissions potential is handled. It is clear that the government and each individual minister are responsible for this.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-658	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if I got a question. That was a statement of my answer. But it goes without saying that I am responsible for Vattenfall as Minister of Ownership. It's a company where I have responsibilities, yes. The government makes collective decisions – I believe that the entire Swedish parliament is aware of this. I note that Vattenfall has reported that this represents a negative financial result for the second quarter of between SEK 22 and 27 billion and that Vattenfall has stated that if it were to choose to retain its business, the financial result would be worse than for a sale. As far as the word loss deal is concerned, it is clear that this is a strain on Vattenfall. Vattenfall has, however, found that over time, precisely the lignite business has been a business that has reached the profitability requirements and yield requirements that Vattenfall has had, so this deal is in no way comparable to the Nuon business, for example. Nuon was bought at a very high price and was written down with huge sums, and it never really accounted for any economic positive result. So there is a huge difference. I would just like to thank you for the praise that we have now steered up the way in which ownership coordination is conducted and for saying that, in such big business, boards will submit to the government a written request for ownership coordination. One has now been received by the government, and it is the government's responsibility to process it and manage it and thereby respond to the company's view of the transaction. That is exactly what we will do before the summer.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-662	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if it's a joke or an anecdote or if there's a bit of truth in it, but it's said it was a philosophist at a university with one question: Then there was a student who answered: To this extent, I must have asked Mikael Damberg several questions in my previous speech. However, I do not think that the audience heard the praise that Mikael Damberg heard. But it is gratifying that this government is using the principles established by the previous alliance government for responsible ownership and a responsible manner of dealing with the state companies. However, the answers from the Minister for Economic Affairs are missing if the Minister for Economic Affairs thinks it is responsible with losses of SEK 25 billion or to sell lignite that causes 1.2 billion tons of emissions. It is indeed lignite that a corresponding Social Democratic government has once been involved in buying. But since then, a lot has happened with our knowledge of the climate, among other things, and so there is the chance to back down and meet, for example, the Green Party's wishes on how to deal with this issue. Mr President, I would like to I have not heard any answer or reasoning as to how the minister is reasoning on these questions. However, Mikael Damberg has been clear about the responsibility of the government – that is, the Minister's own – in these matters. He has written, among other things, that the Government has an unambiguous financial responsibility as owner of Vattenfall for the company's finances. This means that the government has unequivocal responsibility for the SEK 25 billion in expected loss and, as owner of Vattenfall, for the company's finances. How does the government take that responsibility? Mikael Damberg has also made it clear that scrutiny is made more difficult if you give unclear answers on the issue of responsibility. Furthermore, Mikael Damberg has stated that political responsibility must be demanded in a democracy. That is exactly what is happening now. Mikael Damberg does not want to state what responsibility he collectively has as a minister or government for the affairs that are now taking place. It's shrouded in mystery. We get crumbs of information. The Swedish Parliament's investigation service has calculated 1.2 billion tonnes of emissions from the lignite purchased by the Social Democrats to Sweden during Vattenfall. It has been estimated at approximately SEK 25 billion in loss. In fact, how does the Minister of Economic Affairs view these issues? Is that reasonable? Is that good? Furthermore, Mr President, I would like to ask more questions in these interpellations which could be answered. As regards, for example, the impact on public finances, the Minister for Economic Affairs notes most that this is unlikely to have an effect on public finances. I have asked further questions about this making it easier or more difficult to achieve the environmental objectives that are set. Does this deal make things easier or harder? The answer has not yet come.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-674	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to comment on in this. The first is that we do not simply follow the rules of the bourgeois government's way of dealing with the state companies. We have developed the rules – not least after the Nuon haveriet, where we still do not know who knew what or why decisions were made because it was not the order of the preparation procedures – I think – in the Government Office at the time. Therefore, we have developed requirements for written requests for ownership coordination and written responses on ownership coordination. Of course, it is important for us to manage government assets responsibly. The Nuon affair, the breakdown in the process – that the Minister of Economic Affairs chose not to even come to the Constitutional Committee and answer questions and that it is still unclear on what basis the decision was actually taken – and the huge impact of the results on Vattenfall cannot be compared with the lignite business. As I believe we have discussed before, it has, according to Vattenfall, met over time the yield requirements that Vattenfall has had. Over time, then, it has been a good business — economically. I think it is highly relevant to ask whether it is an environmentally sensible affair that social democratic governments, but also bourgeois governments, have carried out in Europe. There have been quite a lot of fossil energy purchases over the years, and I definitely think that one can question that. That is precisely why this government has taken a grip on the governance of Vattenfall. Our ambition is for Sweden to have an energy system with 100 percent renewable energy in the long term. In Sweden, we are particularly well placed to build such an energy system with our access to wind, water and forest. Germany is also in a transition period, but I can see that Germany lacks many of the natural resources that we have and can use, not least for large-scale hydropower. When considering the outcome of emissions, I think that one should be aware of – and I think Niklas Wykman knows this – that the EU has an emissions trading system that regulates how much this sector is allowed to emit. There the EU has agreed to reduce emissions by 43% by 2030. It means hypothetically that if one activity in this area were to be closed down in the EU, the next day it could be released just as much because someone else is using it. The aim of the EU ETS is to create a market in which the de facto emitters pay. There is also pressure to reduce these emissions over time, which I and my government think is very good because it is part of the transformation of the whole of Europe's energy system that we think is a wise and proper way to go. I do not know whether I have previously asked whether Niklas Wykman represents himself or the Moderates in these discussions. I represent my party but also my government, and I answer the questions. Niklas Wykman asks questions as if the Moderates have had no responsibility at all for the management of the state companies or for the investments in fossil energy that were made out in Europe and that we criticised in opposition – not least the purchase of Dutch Nuon, which has cost taxpayers an enormous amount of money and which today weighs heavily on the company. So we will continue to take responsibility for state assets, and we will do so in a way that builds value over time. Right now we have a position on ownership coordination, where the company has reported its financial assessments of this transaction and also its financial assessments of the consequences of not doing it. We have this to test and take a stand on in ownership coordination, and we will do so according to all the rules of art.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-685	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Minister for Economic Affairs is closely linked to Vattenfall. It is, of course, for good and evil, but in this case it is good that the Minister for Economic Affairs is so involved in Vattenfall's affairs and activities. It remains for the government to present these questions. Mr President, I would like to It is also quite well known that social democrats often find it difficult to distinguish between the party and the state. Mikael Damberg represents the Social Democrats and the government. When we were in charge of power, of course, we represented the government and the Moderates. You should be a little careful about what role you are in and when. Mikael Damberg is a very skilled rhetoricist. However, it does not seem quite enough to get the confidence of either the Swedish people or their own party to the full. When it comes to these questions, it is unanswered what Mikael Damberg thinks. 25 billion dollars in loss, is it good or bad? 1.2 billion tons of emissions from mines, is that good or bad? I fully understand that it is difficult with the Green Party in the government to sort this out reasonably, but nevertheless one has a responsibility towards the Swedish people to sort this out in a decent way that we can understand. Mikael Damberg and no other minister is responsible for how this is handled. What has been clear during the debate is Mikael Damberg's view that the government has ownership responsibility for Vattenfall and for the state's other companies. The government's responsibility is collective, repeated Mikael Damberg himself. Just like a board of directors, they are jointly responsible for each decision taken. Mikael Damberg therefore holds the Minister for the Environment and all other ministers responsible for the decisions he has to make in Vattenfall. It is good that this is at least clear now.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-690	Mr President, I would like to I have answered precisely these questions during the debate. I'm not gonna do it again. I note that Niklas Wykman seems to be more interested in reflecting on my lack of responsibility, which he commends at the same time, because I say that I take responsibility for the decisions we make. It is my view that a government should do this. This is what was totally missing during the Nuon accident, which in impairments has cost taxpayers somewhere in the order of SEK 53 billion and which still weighs on the company today. One might ask: What was it at that time that motivated making this affair at this very high price? It is an asset that is not sustainable, and we in the opposition criticised this, but the government led by Niklas Wykman's party pushed through the deal or allowed Vattenfall to implement it. We've learned a lot since the Nuon accident. We have learned that we should have order and order of the processes. One should take responsibility, and one should make decisions on such great occasions. That is exactly how we will do the work. For us in this government, the state assets are very important. Then it is important to make the right decisions at every opportunity and to evaluate the decisions you make. Then you have to understand the questions and of course work closely with the company. You cannot escape your responsibility, because afterwards it comes to you, just as it went with the Nuon affair, where the bourgeois government still cannot take responsibility. I look forward to continuing to discuss Vattenfall. Right now we are in the process of preparing the ownership coordination that will be carried out. Once we have made our decision and gone through the matter properly, we will report back to Parliament and certainly also discuss the matter further.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-695	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure, as soon as possible, continued access to broadband for all individuals and businesses in rural areas that are now threatened by dismantled copper networks without a reasonable alternative. Broadband coverage is generally very good in Sweden, although there is a difference in access to broadband with higher transmission speeds between city and less populated areas. According to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's latest broadband survey, the roll-out of 100 megabits per second of broadband has also progressed outside urban and small towns in the past year, largely due to the effects of previous broadband support. Access to mobile broadband is evenly distributed across the country, and according to PTS, more than 99 per cent of households and companies across the country have access to this. According to Telia Company AB, parts of the old copper network are now gradually replaced as it is not considered to meet future capacity and operational security needs. This means that the customers who today receive services delivered via the copper network will instead receive them primarily via mobile networks or fibre networks where they are built. For those customers who completely lack the possibility of fibre connection or mobile coverage at their permanent residence or permanent establishment, broadband via satellite may be a solution according to the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority. Access to broadband is an important issue for Sweden and the goal is for Sweden to have world-class broadband. The objective of the broadband strategy is that 90% of all households and businesses should have access to broadband at a speed of 100 megabits per second by 2020. In addition, good conditions should be provided for the proper functioning of competition and the promotion of investments in broadband in more sparsely populated areas. Work is under way on long-term as well as short-term measures to improve access to electronic communications and capacity. The government has invested heavily in broadband expansion in areas where market expansion is not taking place. Within the framework of the Rural Development Programme, the Government has allocated SEK 3.25 billion by 2020, and within the framework of the Regional Fund in the northern parts of Sweden, the Government has enabled additional broadband investments of SEK 1.2 billion. The Government has also financed regional broadband coordinators, which will act as a contact point for both public and private actors and support and promote broadband expansion in the county. The Government will closely monitor Telia Company's work on the decommissioning of the copper network, which according to the company affects approximately 10,000 customers in 29 municipalities in 2016.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-701	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. What is now happening in our country is a switch-off and a dismantling of large parts of our countryside. Or what does the Minister of Economic Affairs say that during the year Telia will cut the copper wire for 10,000 subscribers around the country? Many of the rural subscribers will be affected. The Minister of Industry mentioned some municipalities. I thought I'd bring up some here, too. We are talking about Nordanstig, for example. There, almost 70% of rural residents will hopefully have access to telephone but not broadband. In Eksjö, it is 64 per cent, in Finspång 50 per cent, in Ockelbo 48 per cent, in Östhammar 47 per cent, in Sjöbo 47 per cent, in Tidaholm 45 per cent, in Lindesberg 43 per cent, in Dorotea 36 per cent, in Ljusnarsberg 34 per cent, in Surahammar 27 per cent, in Vindel 27 per cent, in Lycksele 25 per cent, in Sala 23 per cent, in Köping 22 per cent and in Ydre 22 per cent. I could do it for a while longer. The list continues with several municipalities. This is a dismantling of the countryside. Unfortunately, it's only the beginning. Telia has promised to continue cutting the copper wire for even more 2017. Let's talk about 12,500. There is sometimes talk of the divided Sweden. That's really true. This shows the arrogance of the big city. Before there are durable alternatives, cut the thread. It's like saying, if you live in the countryside, well, then you blame yourself! I have a question for the Minister for Enterprise. The government's various representatives uttered before the 2014 elections the famous phrase What does that promise mean for you and the government today? Is the promise worth something, or is it only every four years and during the election campaign?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-706	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I understand the concerns of many people when the changeover takes place. But this is by no means a new question. The former government dealt with exactly the same type of issues – the copper grids were dismantled. We have had a liberalised market in Sweden for a very long time. What we in this government have done is we have doubled the support effort under the rural development programme since the last programming period. We have invested SEK 3.25 billion in the rural development programme, but we have also made it possible to invest SEK 1.2 billion in local networks within the regional fund programme in the northern parts of the country. So we have greatly increased the ambition to expand fibre. I say that Telia has a huge responsibility when it comes to being clear about the information and the possibilities to change. If you are to be careful about the figures, you can say something about the people who have access to mobile broadband, via the mobile network. It is in principle comparable to the copper wires today, in the form of transfer rates. For the vast majority of people there are mobile solutions. There isn't really that for everyone – right? However, these are not the figures that were presented here. In fact, we do not have so bad mobile coverage in Sweden that so many of the municipalities' citizens do not have access to the new mobile technology. But there are still people who may find it very difficult to get mobile coverage that works. There are today other technical solutions, such as satellite, that can transmit. Then, basically, all parties in the Swedish Parliament have been involved in making decisions on legislation that guarantees citizens a minimum level of connectivity of this kind – it is about ensuring that all people have the opportunity to communicate. This was true during the time of the bourgeois government, and this is true during the time of the Social Democratic government. What is the difference now is that we are greatly increasing the focus on fiber. But I will also continue, just like my predecessor, to put very hard pressure on Telia when it comes to being clear with information. It is about informing customers and companies about when the changeover will take place, so that they can find an alternative solution that works. Telia can be helpful in this, but the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency also has a lot of information about the options available.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-710	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Enterprise, for your answer! Of course, just as you said, the previous government also has a responsibility. But now it is this government that is responsible. That is why I really want to talk about this. It may have become more alarming now than ever. We can read in newspapers, for example in Land Agriculture. We hear about companies that are affected and that are completely dependent on functioning broadband to be able to keep their business going. I met the entrepreneur and entrepreneur Olle Forsell, who has its activities with horse tourism, restaurant, overnight stay, riding house and more in Norra Vi, which is located in Ydre. When I was there, he told me how it was basically done after Telia cut the copper wire. The phone only works sometimes. We can totally rule out the broadband – it's all fucked up. Olle says it doesn't go any further. He says, "Let's give up. We'll have to give up the business. I'm afraid he's not alone. Entrepreneurs after entrepreneurs have contacted me. Like Olle, maybe they're gonna give up. The consequences will be even more serious, because there will be even more urbanisation instead of living rural areas. The fact that individuals themselves can provide broadband can be very costly. My question is: what does the Minister think is a reasonable cost of regaining a functioning connection, for those who have been deliberately deprived of a functioning connection? You're saying you're spending money on the budget. It's true. But what I hear when I'm out on the road is that the money is out in different parts of the country, because the pressure is so great. My question is: will the government provide even more money for this? And what does the Minister think is a reasonable time that subscribers should be without broadband?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-715	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question to the Minister! And thank you, Minister, for your answer! I would like to say that we are now seeing developments with a little too rapid decommissioning of the copper network. I think that we can basically see a need for new technologies to take over and we need to modernise Sweden. But it is dangerous at the speed of development that we are now seeing. I think that one should be a little worried that it can have a significant impact on Sweden's competitiveness, especially for rural and sparsely populated companies. What has to be clear about this is that broadband and mobile coverage are linked. If you get more broadband, you can also create better mobile coverage throughout the country. It is therefore important to work in parallel with the questions. But when you see the mobile coverage maps that the operators paint, you have to understand that it is mobile reception outdoors, in the yard or wherever it is. I don't think most people live and live there. You usually live in houses. I don't think you run your company there either, but you usually do that inside a building or in a car or in a machine. The image that mobile companies paint that they have great mobile coverage is therefore not always true in reality, in practice, where people should live, live and run their businesses. I think it is very good that the government has a broadband target that 90% should have access to broadband by 2020. I believe that the basic levels of the European Union, which we are talking about, which are reached in 100% of Sweden, are a bit of a passé. Technological developments have moved so fast that I think we need to aim for a new broadband target of 100%, the whole population, having access to broadband by 2025. I hope that the government will come up with such an initiative on the basis of the Rural Committee's proposals. I think there is a great deal of interest from Telia but also from other operators to be involved in the development and change the technology in Sweden, so that there will be a better expansion. The incentives available are quite strong. I think it's important for the government to take advantage of the role you have as a minority owner and press Telia as an operator: Sure, you should be involved in the transition to new technology, but you can't too quickly pull away the current technology you have. I think it's good that the government is pressing not only to follow the work closely but also to press for Telia to take responsibility. Telia was basically a government business but is now a private company. We also see a need for regulatory simplification. I understand that it is not easy for the new minister to understand everything that has happened – he has great responsibilities in general. But above all you can see that it is a bit difficult for the county board and the region to talk together. There are rules on how many there can be in a place to get the eligible support. If it's too few, you don't get support either. We have put a lot of wedges into the system that make it difficult for broadband to roll out. I think that we need a system that is simpler and that helps those people who want to develop their area and who want to expand broadband, so that they have the opportunity to do so in a good way. I therefore hope that the government will continue to give active priority to these issues. Can we play for the last 30 seconds of my speaking time with the idea that I was Prime Minister in Sweden? Then I think I'd re-establish the cyber-ministerial post. Broadband developments – IT developments – are moving quickly now, and we must have political pressure on these issues in order not to lose momentum.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-723	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I should like to thank the interpeller and the other Member who took part in the debate. I believe that this is a very important issue for our country. Getting the whole of Sweden to function with modern infrastructure in the form of telecommunications and broadband is a prerequisite for people to be able to operate in modern society today, manage their banking matters, manage contacts with authorities and get information. But for entrepreneurs too, of course, much of this is a prerequisite for them to be able to conduct a good business throughout Sweden. We now talk a lot about the development of the tourism industry – for example. The tourism industry really does reach places that may not have traditionally had the connection that we are talking about in larger cities. Sometimes you can think that we politicians only live with decisions, proposals and investigations. But I think there are few of us who have not at any time argued with our telecommunications companies about the coverage, whether or not the maps are correct and whether they have enough pressure in the system to use their phones. There, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has a hugely important role to play in reviewing companies and ensuring that they meet the demands made but also what consumers have been promised. Everyone in this House is aware that we have a liberalised market where the state is in fact only responsible for the basic bottom plate, a bottom plate that I think very few of us think is enough to operate a functioning business around Sweden. I'll buy the problem picture. I buy the responsibility that Telia has to be very clear with information. It can also be about areas where Telia does not have the best coverage. Then you have a responsibility to inform the other telecommunications operators, who may have better coverage, so that they can take over subscriptions and work with the citizens affected. I do not want to say this to smooth over, but there are some technical solutions, although not everyone works everywhere. People who are concerned about this issue should contact the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to find out what opportunities there are. There is, for example, the possibility of strengthening signals, so that signals can be received to a company that is located so that it does not really receive them. When mobile broadband works, it is roughly comparable to the copper wire today – it is about the same speed. Then there are areas where there is no coverage. Then there is satellite telephony as an opportunity, something that only five to seven years ago was not an option. But now the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency says that it has developed quite properly, not least in our neighbouring country, Norway, which has also worked a lot on this. Some satellite telephone operators come from Norway, and they also make it possible to operate in areas where conditions are not very good. Back to what the government does: We have doubled the support and rolled out fiber, which we think is the absolute best for but of broadband long-term because it handles all eventualities in the future and means that we have a robust system that can truly deliver. That's what we do. Linked to the last thing that was said: There are some rules and ambiguities. It's not that easy to handle all of this. Therefore, we have chosen to invest in broadband coordinators. We believe that this function can lead municipalities, county councils and regions to make joint efforts with village teams or cities in local parishes that want to push the issue. We have seen that the municipalities and regions that have taken a grip have come much further than some other municipalities and county councils.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-732	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. Just as you're on, broad bands are incredibly important. If you want to be connected, you want to be. But when it doesn't work and Telia has cut the copper wire and ADSL is gone, then you stand there. While we are talking about this, we know that the state leaves many parts of society. They say you as a private person should go online and fix things. But if you can't get connected, it's troubling. Around Sweden there is talk of a scandal, the big broadband weakness. A Social Democratic municipal councillor in Vännäs municipality appealed to Telia to postpone the decommissioning until there are viable alternatives. My question is: what signal does the Minister of Economic Affairs want to give to anyone without broadband? Has there been any evaluation before Telia goes back on and cuts even more? We talked before about 10,000 without broadband this year, and next year it's 12 500. Will the Minister of Economic Affairs listen to his party friend up in Vännäs and talk to Telia and ask them to wait to cut the copper wire and thereby dismantle the countryside, ask them to wait until there is a sustainable alternative?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-736	Mr President, I would like to I believe, just as the Minister is concerned, that technology development is definitely part of the solution. That's the trick. We have an old technology that is well proven and works, and then we have a technology development that we want to see. Then it is important that it does not go too fast and that you find a balance, so that you get support and have time to go through the processes to support, that Telia early signals: This is an area where we will remove, and you now need to start a process to replace this infrastructure with other infrastructure, broadband or whatever it is. I have some party colleagues who think that the state should take full responsibility for everyone's broadband coverage, but I am not really with all my party colleagues in this regard. However, I believe that it is possible to increase public responsibility for developing broadband in Sweden, and I believe above all that public responsibility can be developed through urban networks and the right conditions to expand. Just as the Minister is on the subject, it has taken on a great deal of responsibility from the public side as it has produced results. I also think that the Minister should look at the investigation that Åsa Torstensson concluded that the government needs to cooperate more on its state broadband. But I also think that one should consider setting up an investigation to gather the state in a company, Statens broadbandfiber AB, and say: Here one can buy the state's broadband, here we can help with the expansion in a good way. Today, the state is very fragmented in the area of broadband. I also think the broadband coordinators are good. I guess we've still seen a result that's a little bit like that. But it's a little early to say it's a bad bet. I think it's a good bet that needs a little more time. Above all, I believe that the government's goal is crucial for technological development, to say as an instrument of policy: We want development in Sweden. We want to be at the forefront. We are the best in Europe as it is right now, but we really want to stay there. We think it should apply to 90 percent of Sweden's population by 2020, but I also think we should think 100 percent of Sweden's population by 2025.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-741	Mr President, I would like to Then I would like to thank you for the debate. I do not think this is the last time we are discussing this issue, because it is really about the conditions for operating in companies and living and living in the whole of Sweden. This government has high ambitions. We have doubled the support for the rural development programme in order to speed up the expansion of fibre. We have also made an additional investment of SEK 1.2 billion to do more on the fiber side. I certainly do not think that people's concerns should be ignored, and Telia has a great responsibility to be clear with information, guide and also say what options are in the market. If Telia can't solve the issue himself, maybe there are other operators who can solve the issue. We must be a little careful about how we express ourselves on this issue, so that we do not say that there are no alternatives for anyone where the copper wire no longer works. Mobile broadband works in large parts of Sweden but not in all parts. There are also reinforcement equipment, and there are satellite versions that are now starting to be on the market and have been available in Norway, and they open up completely new possibilities and were not a financially possible option five to seven years ago. I believe that we must help to sort it out so that people do not feel completely turned out when there is perhaps in fact a good alternative that can replace. It is time to consider whether the objective is correctly formulated. Have we come so far that it is actually time to look at it again? We're getting close to it. I definitely believe that we need to work together to ensure that this issue continues to be a high priority in society as a whole. Thank you very much for the debate today.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-747	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me how I intend to take steps to prevent the continued purchase of coal from Colombia before any sale takes place. First of all, I would like to make it clear that Vattenfall's sale of lignite is not related to Vattenfall's purchase of coal. Coal is used in non-sale facilities. The reporting of abuses in the coal mines in the province of Cesar, Colombia, between 1996 and 2006 is serious. The Government requires state-owned companies to act exemplaryly, to be transparent, to cooperate, to have strategic work in place and to work on the basis of international guidelines. An important tool in this work is the UN's guiding principles for entrepreneurship and human rights. Sweden, as the sixth country in the world, has recently developed an action plan for this. The principles are the starting point when we follow up human rights issues with state companies. We are informed about the challenges of coal mining and have an ongoing dialogue with the company on supplier management, where the purchase of coal from Colombia has been specifically discussed. The company has made the assessment that they best influence through an active dialogue and through the Bettercoal initiative. It is a collaboration that aims to deal jointly with other energy companies with challenges in the supply chain. Supplier management is a responsibility for the company's board of directors and management, where we as owners have followed the development of the company's work to improve supplier management in recent years. The government has a clear expectation that the company will respect human rights in all its activities. That is why we will continue to follow this issue closely.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-754	Mr President, I would like to The question marks pile up both around the government represented by Mikael Damberg and former Social Democratic governments. It is known that Vattenfall bought a lot of German nuclear power under previous Social Democratic governments. It is nuclear power that now stands still and is extremely loss-making. It was bought in lignite and made s big deals in Germany and Poland with energy resources and energy types that are extremely environmental. Now the government is trying to sell these with loss and with potentially very high CO2 emissions as a result. Exactly how it goes is not yet known. This is where the government will return, according to the Minister for Economic Affairs. The question marks pile up as I said, and the need for answers becomes evident when it is also revealed that Mikael Damberg's Vattenfall has done business in Colombia and, it is said, in association with paramilitary groups. These are, of course, extremely worrying data. In his reply, the Minister refers to an ongoing dialogue and also believes that it is best to influence through an active dialogue – unclear how it happens and with whom it happens – and through the Bettercoal initiative, i.e. better carbon. With whom will this dialogue take place? What is the aim of this dialogue? What are the current problems that this dialogue should solve? It is not a normal Swedish position if there are major shortcomings – it can affect everything from child labour to poor working conditions in general – that it is best solved with dialogue. The minister here pushes the entire responsibility over the company and refers to the fact that the problems that exist are best dealt with through an active dialogue. With whom? About what? In such cases, what is the purpose of this dialogue, Mikael Damberg? Normally Sweden as a nation does not sweep so serious international problems under the carpet, especially when it comes to private companies. Even less should we do so in the case of a state-owned company and what happened here in 1996 – 2006 during the purchasing hysteria that prevailed at the time in Vattenfall. Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister says that Vendor Management is a responsibility for the company's board of directors and management, where we as owners have followed developments in recent years. The minister believes that responsibility rests with the company, and the government follows it. However, the Minister has written in the past that the review is made more difficult by unclear statements on the issue of liability. Does Mikael Damberg mean that the examination of this becomes easier when you get unclear information on the issue of responsibility? The Minister has previously also written that the Government has ownership responsibility for Vattenfall and the other companies in the state. Mikael Damberg has therefore repeatedly inculcate responsibility for the government, for the state, for Vattenfall. But when very serious things are revealed, they are pushed over to the company in full. In addition, we were told to dialogue as form. Does this not need more clarity? The Minister is busy with his mobile phone, but I am convinced that these questions have been put in such a clear way that the Minister has the chance to answer them. Is it consistent with common Swedish practice that this should be handled in dialogue? Is there no need to clarify the questions of stagnant German nuclear power, of lignite, of the large holdings in Germany and Poland and of the alleged links with paramilitary groups in Colombia?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-767	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by thanking Niklas Wykman for the urgent interpellation. A few weeks ago, Mrs Méndez, from the Cesar region of Colombia, spoke to us as Members of Parliament. When she was 15 years old, a group of heavily armed people came from one of the paramilitary groups that haunt this area to her home. It was the middle of the night of February 19, 2001. They asked for her father, who was then one of the union leaders from the coalworkers' union. Maira's siblings and mother were also present at home. They took her father out and murdered him right in front of Maira's eyes. Since that day, Maira Méndez has fought for workers' rights in the coal fields in the Cesar region of Colombia. Since the early 1990s, more than 3 000 people in this region have been murdered in cold blood by paramilitary groups. Maira Méndez was with me at Vattenfall's voice. There I raised the question of Vattenfall's purchase of coal from the companies Prodeco and Drummond. It is the two major companies that supply Vattenfall with coal. These are not insignificant amounts of coal; there is much that Vattenfall buys from Colombia. There is much evidence that these two mining companies have financed paramilitary groups precisely to clear out trade unionists and other active people in the coal region. The Minister for Industry says very good things in his response. He says something about what Vattenfall said to me and Maira at his meeting. But let me inform the Minister for Economic Affairs that the dialogue that is taking place is not conducted at all with the mining workers' union in Colombia, but through intermediaries, such as the Colombian Government. It may be added that the Colombian Government has been accused in the past of being involved in funding precisely paramilitary groups. Only last year, the entire union leadership was fired at one of Prodeco's or Drummond's mines. So these persecutions are still going on today. A company very similar to Vattenfall is Danish Dong Energy. Up to a few years ago, this was the case, and the Danish State still holds significant shares. Dong Energy has for two rounds decided to stop buying coal from the companies Prodeco and Drummond. These decisions are based entirely on human rights and workers' rights. This debate is important. Vattenfall is a company that generally decides over itself. But ultimately it is we who own Vattenfall jointly. The Government has a permanent representative on the Board of Directors of Vattenfall. After hearing Niklas Wykmans and my speech, does the Minister of Economic Affairs think that Vattenfall is doing enough? Is the Minister for Economic Affairs prepared to raise the issue with Vattenfall if it is to stop buying coal from these two companies in Colombia?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-776	Mr President, I would like to It is an important question, although I am not sure that the interpeller knew what he was asking about because he mixes up lignite and coal in his interpellation. In addition, he tries to escape responsibility in this debate because coal purchases started in 2007. What information the bourgeois government had about the circumstances then and how it made the decision to start hiring suppliers from there will probably have Niklas Wykman put to the government he worked for during this time. We can have a serious discussion on this, because I think it is a serious issue in essence. These are serious issues – they are human rights violations. A report was published in 2014, as you know, on the dark side of coal and paramilitary violence in the mining province of Cesar, Colombia. The report shows quite serious violations of human rights and that mining has been an economic factor behind the events that took place in Colombia. I certainly do not take this issue lightly. I have had several dialogues with the company and will continue to do so. I have also asked the company to report back on how they actually view this issue and how they intend to proceed. We have certainly not dismissed the question. We will follow it closely, and we have asked the company a number of questions about how to deal with the situation. I would like to say this at the outset. This is why the Swedish Government has chosen to raise the issue of sustainable entrepreneurship. The previous government chose to say that it should not confuse the responsibility and interest of the state for sustainable entrepreneurship with the decision of the private business community on sustainable entrepreneurship. I think it's wrong. I believe that we need to adopt a principled approach in Sweden on how Swedish companies should act in relation to human rights. That is why, as the sixth country in the world, we have implemented our own action plan, which requires companies to respect human rights, both in Sweden and in their international activities. I think it is right and good, and I would like to say in this House that I have met with a very great understanding from Swedish companies operating internationally. They think it is reasonable that we make such demands, but also that we back up Swedish companies that act in difficult markets, that we provide support and help not to make mistakes, manage risks and see what they are actually going into and that, if they end up in a problematic business situation, they are open and transparent and tell us what they intend to do and how they act. The company has chosen to have a dialogue. This dialogue, just as you were concerned, has taken place with representatives of several different groupings where the regime is also part of the party, but also the local population and the company. Several mining companies have been tried to get together to discuss the supply chain, because it is also a question of human rights in the long term that the mines develop their relationship with these rights. Now I am not saying whether Vattenfall should make a deal or not, but if all countries were to stop doing business here, it is not certain that human rights developments would only take place in a positive direction. It is also a question of being in a situation where you try to use the influence you have to contribute positively. Vattenfall is committed here and tries to work within the framework of the dialogue, but then the Swedish Embassy is in place in Colombia. They are also actively working on human rights, which I am sure will not least be known to Holm. This has created a platform to inform and allow companies on the ground to exchange experiences on these issues. This is definitely an important issue, and I will continue to follow it. I am not waving it away, and I expect Vattenfall to be able to both answer questions and act responsibly. We expect this from state-owned companies.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-788	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much. Women who hold positions that only show themselves filled with symbolism, men and women who err but men who get away and women who are allowed to take full responsibility, ministers who accuse their opponents of having no idea what they're talking about and so on – I'm very happy that I don't have to devote myself to a ruling technology analysis by the current government. It would be very long and laborious to write. Mikael Damberg and I can certainly discuss for a very long time the difference between lignite and coal and their various uses in the energy production process, when using what, what is lighter and fuel, what gives effect and watts and so on, for a long time. I think we both have reasonable control of it. That is not what this question is about, and I do not understand where the Minister for Economic Affairs got these personal attacks. I think we should discuss the issue, and we should discuss it seriously and, as Mikael Damberg says, not wave it away as part of the political game. I believe that such an attitude is deeply irresponsible, Mikael Damberg has written, but he cannot refrain from derogatory attacks. I find that regrettable. However, in order to go back to the substance of the matter, the Minister for Economic Affairs can answer the question whether in this case it is considered that Vattenfall takes or does not take the responsibility that the Minister for Economic Affairs is talking about. It is nevertheless a binary issue in which the Minister for Economic Affairs emphasises the work of the government and also the previous government on human rights, corporate responsibility and other things. Somewhere the question eventually becomes binary or boils down to an answer that is either or. Vattenfall either lived up to it, or Vattenfall did not live up to it. What is the Minister's assessment? Did they live up to the guidelines and rules set by the government, or did they not? Does Vattenfall, or does Vattenfall not? And what does the ongoing dialogue referred to by the Minister for Economic Affairs contain? What is Vattenfall saying in that kind of dialogue? What is the substantive content of that dialogue? These are two clear questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs. I think we can take advantage of the personal attacks and respond to these very serious questions, which are very serious. We heard from Jens Holm earlier that they can even be so serious that they are alive and dead. Therefore, the Minister for Economic Affairs now has an excellent opportunity to answer these questions: Is Vattenfall living up to the requirements, or are they not? On the basis of the answer, it is interesting to discuss further what measures need or do not need to be taken, and what the dialogue referred to by the Minister for Economic Affairs consists of, purely substantively.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-797	Mr President, I would like to My question is, in fact, quite simple, although it is a difficult question: will the Minister for Economic Affairs, after this debate, be prepared to raise this issue again, because the Minister for Economic Affairs said that he is having a dialogue with the company? Will he raise the question of the purchase of coal from Colombia with Vattenfall to see if there is anything new to tell? For example, the Minister for Industry may also ask how the dialogue is going. Has the mining workers' union been included in this? What did Vattenfall think about the dialogue with Maira Méndez and other representatives, who have written a report to which the Minister for Economic Affairs has just referred? What does Vattenfall think of the meeting with them, and has something new been learned? I would also be grateful if the Minister for Economic Affairs could comment on how it is that Dong Energy in Denmark actually makes a completely different assessment and thinks that this is not good enough. If it can be demonstrated that the two companies are linked to paramilitary groups and continue to act in a very dubious manner, i.e. are associated with these groups in one way or another, then perhaps the only thing that is straight is to interrupt cooperation with them. It is also a way of influencing. As I understand Dong's decision, it's conditioned. It has been said that if you see an improvement in Colombia you can come back, but as long as it looks as it does now you do not want to buy coal from there. I think that sounds like a reasonable attitude.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-801	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by answering the question quite frankly: yes, of course I will have a dialogue with Vattenfall. I will also be happy to ask exactly the questions that Holm has raised for me here today – how they view their meeting but also how they view the relationship with the trade union movement in place. The supply chain is definitely one of the things we have discussed, and the responsibilities you have towards the suppliers you have in your business. At the last meeting with Vattenfall not so long ago was one of my fellow messages that later this autumn I want a reporting back on these issues, so I will definitely come back to them. It is clear that Vattenfall as a company is certainly also considering which path is right to make in these situations. Today, that decision rests on board and management. We will ask questions about how they reason and also how they believe they comply with the guidelines that exist for the state companies. This is an important issue for us, and for the company, I would say. When I have asked questions about this, they indicate that they see that this is a difficult and important question. We have had other state-owned companies that have also been on markets or involved in situations that have not been entirely optimal or even appropriate in all contexts. Then the question is how to take it further, what kind of strategy you have, what kind of analysis you do and how serious you take it. That is absolutely the most important thing – to do it in a transparent way. I am happy to return to the question later on when I know more from the company. I was asked, "What's Vattenfall doing?" Since 2014, we as owners are following Vattenfall's efforts to manage risks and opportunities in the supply chain and want a higher degree of transparency. But Vattenfall's strategy in Colombia has been to work with other energy companies and with the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this issue. It has been the strategy that the company has wanted to work with to also influence and get a good development in the supply chain. Not all coal is bought from there – that's about 15%. I think this interpellation is important. The question of how Vattenfall deals with this situation is also important to us as owners, because we need to feel secure. I am now not prepared to say that I do not have confidence in Vattenfall. They say they are in dialogue, and they have a strategy to work. They have also promised me to report back on how the work is progressing. Then there is no reason for me to say at this point that I do not have confidence in Vattenfall. But I also have high expectations of all state-owned companies, including Vattenfall, to deal with this important issue seriously.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-808	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Industry gives a clear answer that he is not going to answer my question. I can have great respect for that, because not all questions have an answer here and now. You may need to get back to them, get more information about them and follow the developments around them. I do not, therefore, intend to repeat the question as to whether the Minister for Economic Affairs believes that Vattenfall meets the requirements of the government or not, but I hear that the Minister for Economic Affairs says that he should follow and return to this and that we have reason to discuss it further. My second question, on the other hand, seems to me to deserve an answer. Now that we are familiar with the prevailing conditions, I am very interested in what the dialogue that Vattenfall for substantively consists of. Does it include requirements for suppliers? Does it require the right to organise? Does it contain requirements for work environment? Does it require legal protection and equality? What is the substance of this dialogue, since it is nevertheless at the heart of the Minister for Economic Affairs' answer to the question of dialogue? I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will be able to explain this briefly to Parliament. In general, I would like to thank the Minister for Enterprise for the debate on this company. There's a lot of common ownership. Of course, one can always discuss how much public ownership should be and what should be state ownership and what should not be. In the case of such large state ownership, it is important, as the Minister for Economic Affairs states, that this should be discussed. Mikael Damberg says that political responsibility must be demanded in a democracy. That is exactly what is happening now. This must, of course, be done in a debate format. I am convinced that we all have a desire for this company to go as well as possible. But just as Mikael Damberg says, it is the duty of the Riksdag to review the government and demand that it be accountable for its decisions.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-811	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important interpellation debate. When it comes to demanding responsibility, one can reflect a little bit on the tone since purchases started in 2007. I assume that the previous government made a careful balance in terms of suitability and the good thing in starting to buy coal from there. I guess there was a very rational analysis behind that. Since the presentation of this report, the government has had an active dialogue with the company and has made demands to report how the company views the situation and what it does. What has been done by the company is to have a dialogue with mining companies, the population and the Colombian government. Vattenfall's assessment and hope is that this will lead to progress. This is done together with the Dutch Foreign Office. The aim of these dialogues is to improve both the social framework and environmental conditions in the supply chains in Colombia. That is exactly what this dialogue is about. Then there is a bigger question about Sweden's relationship with Colombia, which is actually about the peace process and the peace negotiations, where these issues are also important. There are major underlying conflicts in Colombian society that need to be addressed in order for peace, reconciliation and development to be achieved in Colombia. But maybe it's another interpellation debate.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-814	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked the Minister for Climate and Environment and Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson what measures the government intends to take to ensure that the EU, its Member States and other actors can always take the lead in the field of environmental and public health and other important policy areas in the light of the ongoing negotiations on a free trade and investment agreement between the EU and the US – TTIP. He has also asked how the government intends to act to change the wording of an investment court and regulatory cooperation. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Jens Holm has referred in his interpellation to the documents recently published by Greenpeace. I should first of all make it clear that these documents are not current consolidated texts, nor are they pre-negotiated texts. Jens Holm claims that the precautionary principle is not included in the text proposals. However, the EU's proposal for a chapter on good regulatory practice and regulatory cooperation, which is available on the European Commission's website, contains clear provisions that nothing should affect the application of fundamental principles of EU law, for example in the area of risk assessment and risk management. This includes the precautionary principle. The possibility of taking action and taking priority in areas such as the environment and public health is regulated by both EU and WTO law. The government wants to see as ambitious a negotiated outcome as possible to support growth and employment, while maintaining and strengthening the protection of the environment, human and animal health and workers, among other things. With regard to the Commission's proposal for a reformed investment protection and a revised TTIP dispute resolution mechanism, the proposal reaffirms the right of states to legislate in order to achieve legitimate public interests in areas such as environment and health and clarifies that an investor cannot expect the legislation to remain unchanged. A modern dispute resolution system is proposed in the form of an investment court and a review body for greater legitimacy, legal certainty and predictability. There are also rules that make it easier for SMEs to use the mechanism. The Commission's proposal therefore provides a good basis for negotiations in this area with the US. The impact of the outcome of the negotiations on the dispute settlement mechanism will be analysed in detail, and its impact on Sweden's ability to legislate in order to achieve general interests such as the environment, human and animal health will be thoroughly assessed.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-821	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Enterprise for the answer to my interpellation. I think this is an important debate. We want Sweden and other countries to be able to take the lead in the field of environment and climate change. It is no exaggeration to claim that we have enormous challenges to remove dangerous chemicals, to quickly reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and so on. When you look at the texts that have leaked from Greenpeace – some of these texts are actually consolidated and pre-negotiated – you see that this is an agreement that completely lacks ambition to be able to lead the way in the field of environment and climate change. That is also why two of our major environmental organisations, the Nature Conservation Association and Greenpeace, had a debate article on DN Debate a few days ago where they warned about the effects of TTIP on the environment. The precautionary principle enshrined in EU law and Swedish law is not contained in the consolidated texts. What the Minister for Economic Affairs is addressing is the EU's involvement in the negotiations. It is very important, and it is a completely different matter. The EU wants the precautionary principle to be included. The precautionary principle is very important because TTIP will bring laws and ambitions closer together between the EU and the US. Today I listened to the Director-General of the Chemicals Inspectorate, who spoke for us in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. She told us that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is concerned about the effects of TTIP on the possibility of constantly being at the forefront of banning and regulating dangerous chemicals. The regulatory cooperation, which is about having a joint commission to send proposals for new laws to be reviewed, for example from a trade perspective, is one of the things the Swedish Chemicals Agency addresses. It is believed that it will delay and make it more difficult to take precedence over the environment, particularly in the field of chemicals. I personally regard investment protection as one of the greatest threats. I do not understand why two democracies, the EU and the US, should have an investment court where companies can sue states. We've seen the effects of that before. Not too rarely, it is precisely that states have legislated in the environmental field, where large companies come with multimillion-dollar sentiments. I believe that this will deter us from pursuing a progressive environmental policy. I also fully share the view of the French Minister for Trade that these are negotiations that are taking place in a total lack of transparency and that they threaten an ambitious climate policy, as he said recently. I would like to ask Mikael Damberg a few questions. Why is it so important for the Swedish government that there should be investment protection so that large companies can sue states? What will the Swedish Government do if it does so, which I am afraid, that the precautionary principle will not be included in the final draft agreement? Are we going to say no to TTIP then? I would also like to know whether the Swedish Government has made its own assessment of the impact of TTIP on the environment, climate policy and public health.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-829	Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight the democratic perspective in this debate. If I am to read the documents as a Member of Parliament, I have three possibilities. I can go to the business committee's office here in the Riksdag, where there are two binders with some lyrics in them. I can trek away to the Government Office and be admitted to a room where the same lyrics exist but where there may also be some slightly newer text that has not been able to get all the way to the Riksdag. I can also go down to Brussels and visit the European Commission's room – or even in Parliament – to read documents. However, it is confidential on what I read, and I must not take note of anything or tell anyone what I have read. It is not even all parliamentarians who are allowed to read; in the Swedish Parliament, only we who sit on the Committee on Economic Affairs and those who sit on the EU Board are allowed to do so. The rest of the community has been shut out. I think it is very important to understand the importance of the trade agreements being examined by actors other than politicians. Greenpeace leak contains 248 pages of negotiated trade agreement text in English. It is not very easy for me as a politician, with responsibility for a variety of policy areas, to get into and understand the details. It would be better for me to read a summary of a professor of commercial law who has examined what it is. That is why closed negotiations are so dangerous. When Greenpeace opened the discussion from this leak, it was the first time we saw the position of the United States and understood where the negotiations stood. I would say that there were two reactions to this in the political debate. One reaction came from NGOs like the Nature Conservation Association and Greenpeace, who said: It's just as bad as we thought it would be. The second reaction came from politicians. It was mainly bourgeois politicians, but I think that Damberg and EU Commissioner Malmström were also out saying the same thing – that the US is too slow, too slow and too tough in the negotiations and that it is too difficult to reach a conclusion. That's what they said from the leak. This shows that there are very different images of the debate when you do not even know what it is about because it is taken in closed rooms. I would also like to highlight this with regulatory cooperation and that there is a risk that big companies will govern our legislation in the future. I would say that this is the most dangerous development for us in Parliament, so that we cannot go ahead with progressive legislation without constantly running the risk of being sued. In Sweden, we don't really have any agreements that allow American big companies to sue us – yet. But if CETA, which is the trade agreement with Canada, or TTIP becomes a reality, big companies will have completely different opportunities to sue the Swedish Parliament when we make laws. I think that will affect what we do in a completely different way from what we are experiencing now. We see, for example, how Obama has been sued for stopping Keystone XL, the great oil pipeline throughout the United States. Mikael Damberg wants an ambitious agreement. I am always thinking about why it is so important to include the ambitious elements of states being able to be sued and companies being able to govern legislation. Why not just solve the simple, small obstacles we have in the trade with the United States? I have absolutely no objection to us increasing trade with the United States. If we look at the economic trends, we see that it is the United States that is currently doing well in the world. We shall certainly stimulate trade with the United States, but it must be done in a good way. This must be done in a good way and so that we can ensure that consumers get decent and good products. On this basis, I would like to ask Minister Damberg whether he will work to ensure that the full text of the negotiations in the TTIP, i.e. both the parts of Europe and the United States, will be made public so that it can be examined, in particular, by NGOs and other actors.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-839	Mr President, I would like to There were several different questions, so I will probably not be able to answer just everyone in this post. Let's split it up a little bit. As far as the US economy is concerned, it is doing well – the country has about 2 percent growth. Sweden has 4 percent growth right now. However, American growth means a great deal to Sweden; in fact, there is no other country that creates so much jobs in Sweden through trade. It is about 140 000 jobs created thanks to our trade and our exchange with the United States, so it is a hugely important market for Sweden and Swedish companies. Therefore, TTIP is an important agreement for Sweden, economically and for job growth. Sweden can stand a little as a symbol. We have had open and free trade in Sweden for a very long time, but at the same time we are a country that has gone ahead in the environmental and consumer law field. In many different areas, Sweden has maintained a social model, despite the fact that we have had open and free trade. I therefore think that Sweden is rather an example of the fact that it is perfectly possible to maintain high environmental standards or social rights while at the same time being an advocate of free and open trade. When we in Sweden want a comprehensive and ambitious agreement, we do not want it at the expense of the environment and workers' rights. We shall be able to move forward and strengthen these rights, and that is our starting point. It is also Europe's very clear starting point in the negotiations with the United States. We can turn it around and hear what the USA's starting point is in the negotiations. It says the same thing, namely that Europe must not limit the ability of the United States to legislate and take precedence. Both sides therefore have the ambition not to limit their ability to legislate and so on. That is an important starting point in the negotiations. As for the leaks that came from Greenpeace, I think you can read them in different ways. We can at least agree that this is not the whole agreement. This means that we do not see the consequences in all areas, but what we see – as I read it, but I am a little nerdy and spend a lot of time on this – is that we in Europe have not backed back from any of our negotiating positions in these texts. We have not crossed any of the red borders of the negotiating mandate that exists. However, we see that the United States has a different position in several areas, but we have known that from the beginning. The United States has a different position in several areas, but we also know where our red borders that we should not cross are. This is what is going to be a little difficult in the discussion about TTIP, that is to say that we are going to discuss an agreement that does not yet exist. There's a negotiation. Are we in favour of transparency? Yes, I believe that, in principle, all the meetings in which we have discussed this have highlighted the importance of publicity and transparency in the process. I may have missed it at some meeting, but I have pointed it out to virtually everyone. Europe has gone further than ever in negotiating a free trade agreement and has published all its positions. Europe has never done so before in a negotiation. The absurdity is that in this negotiation with the United States we have gone further with our European openness than ever before. That is a good thing, but Europe cannot dictate what our opponent in the negotiations, that is, the United States, does with its texts. In the United States they have been rather hesitant to release lyrics. We got to push them to the rooms that would still be there, with consolidated texts where it is possible to compare the negotiating mandates of the different positions. America is thinking: No, if we let this in, it will leak, and we do not want that. Now it leaked, so right now Cecilia Malmström has a pretty tough fight to bring the American side and say: You promised it would not leak, but we would show openness. Well, at least it leaked. We do not know whether we can trust Europe. I am simply saying that we are not entirely responsible for transparency, because we have a counterpart to negotiate with. And I think that all of us who have been involved in a negotiation know that a negotiation does not best take place in front of television cameras– it is very rarely. However, you should be open with your positions. In conclusion, I would like to say that on 31 May we have both Cecilia Malmström and Froman here at a seminar in Sweden. It is a great opportunity to find out more and ask questions about TTIP issues in Sweden.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-850	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Industry has a few questions left to answer, but it is good that we have more comments. It sounds to you, Mikael Damberg, like Sweden and the EU always have the progressive position. In general, I would say that this is the case, but not always. Take, for example, the question of the Investment Court, the right of companies to sue states. In fact, it is Sweden and the EU that are driving the United States. And I had a question here for you about why it is so important to have investment protection between two economies that are already dealing very much with each other, which are democracies and which are usually able to deal with such issues quite well. It seems that for Mikael Damberg this is that companies should be able to sue states very important overall. Last week, in the EU Council, we had the issue of the trade agreement with Mexico. Apparently, Sweden is one of the countries that really push for investment protection to be included in that agreement. Why is it so important to the Swedish government? Mikael Damberg says in his reply to me that the right to take the lead in the field of environment and public health is regulated in both EU and WTO law. But, Mikael Damberg, you know it's a truth with modification. The GATT agreement, which is one of the founding agreements of the WTO, has selected a few areas, so that the environmental issue is very limited. Article 20 states that this legislation must not, however, constitute a disguised barrier to trade. This means that it is very difficult to lead the way in the environmental field within the WTO. And it was with the support of the WTO, Mikael Damberg, that the US sued India a few years ago for their expansion of solar cells. They do not use American solar cells but want to use Indianly produced solar cells to some extent. It was also with the support of the WTO that Japan and later the EU sued Canada for Ontario's renewable energy plan, where Canada lost because it said that part of renewable energy would be produced locally in Ontario. This, Mikael Damberg, is the trade policy which is currently enshrined in the WTO. This is what Mikael Damberg and the Swedish Government want to take a step further, and I really do not understand that. I also asked a question about the precautionary principle. I think that Mikael Damberg and also Cecilia Malmström, when you listen carefully, slip the truth there. Here comes the question again: is it the case, Mikael Damberg, that the precautionary principle is inscribed as a pre-negotiated text between the EU and the US? Or is it just a unilateral input from the EU? I think it would be important if you could clarify this. Then there is the question of regulatory cooperation. There should be a committee through which to run all proposals for new laws. This has been referred to by American organizations as paralysis by analysis. Just as the Chemicals Inspectorate told me, it will be extremely slow and complicated to enforce new progressive environmental laws if there is to be a supranational committee to review this from a trade perspective. Why, Mikael Damberg, must we have some form of trade policy straitjacket on progressive legislation? I guess it works pretty well the way it does now. Just like Håkan Svenneling was on and as you said yourself, the US is a very important trading partner for Sweden as it is today, and trade works quite well. To the extent that there is a problem, you might be able to solve it without this huge agreement that threatens the environment.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-858	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister said, the trade between the United States and the European Union is already very large today. This means that when you decide to throw in new things, as regulatory cooperation where big companies are to control the legislation and ICS, which is the lawsuit for big companies, I am puzzled at what that could mean. In the United States today there is something called OiRA, an authority under the White House that has the task of reviewing legislative proposals before they are decided. They have actively stopped progressive legislation and opposed it, particularly in the environmental field. Another question is this with the possibility of being sued. In a short time, I shall enter into a very complicated discussion about indirect and direct expropriation. What Sweden currently has a lot of legal protection for is direct expropriation. If you, as a minister, decide to take over some form of property from companies with state funds, the state may have to pay quite expensively in courts in different ways. But there is not so much regulation in Sweden when it comes to indirect expropriations, when you do something that in turn leads to companies being unable to get anything. And that is really what Obama has done when he says: We should not give environmental permits to Keystone XL's great pipeline through the United States, because that is not the future. I've signed a climate agreement. I want to turn the world into a better world. That's why I can't be in favour of this. Then you go to a lawsuit right away. It does, I believe, that we will have a double lock on progressive legislation, that we, as politicians, will not dare to take the steps. What the TTIP agreement risks to mean is that we in Sweden can risk being sued. We cannot do so at all to the same extent today. After all, we as a state have not been sued once, and that is because we have not signed any agreements. We recently saw a Dutch documentary on TV, and I think it showed very well the risks I see with the TTIP agreement.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-864	Mr President, I would like to I had several questions again, but I am addressing the issue of investment protection and its modernisation in the TTIP negotiations but also the CETA agreement. After all, Europe has been pushing for the modernisation of investment protection. Sweden currently has around 60 bilateral investment protection agreements as a country. So far, we've never been the subject of a lawsuit. And, as far as I know, there is no known example of an American investor who has won against an EU member. Why is that? Because Sweden has a well-developed legal tradition, and we have, as has been said before, a constitution that prohibits expropriation. Sweden is dealing with a number of countries where it is not as safe to make investments. It is not unbelievable that foreign companies are discriminated against and treated differently, not because they are violating environmental legislation, but because they want to keep foreign companies away from trade. And that is not correct under WTO rules or in accordance with the approach we take to open trade and investment. I think it is important to see that it is a protection for those who make investments and act that they know that they do not have the right to influence the legislation, because the ISDS system has no impact on legislation. A political decision cannot be reconsidered, but you have the right to receive compensation if you are mistreated by a legislator who violates these rules. Both Sweden and Europe have taken the impression of the critical debate that has been around the ISDS system. Then the position of the Swedish Government has been that it is good if we modernise this. Not least in the context of the CETA agreement, the Canadian agreement, we came up with texts that went much further than before and which address not least the issue of indirect expropriation. One should not think that one can expect the legislation to remain the same. There should be more transparency and transparency in the processes. There should be clearer requirements for those who carry out the assessments, and there should be simpler rules for small and medium-sized enterprises in this system. There are therefore several steps now in which Europe also has a position in the TTIP negotiations on modernising investment protection. It is in line with the position of the Swedish Government that it is good that we are modernising this, because there have been some cases of lawsuits that we think are both unfounded and incorrect, and this is a way of dealing with it. We talked a little about the Americans' attitude to this. I haven't heard anyone on the American side say they don't want an ISDS in this deal. From the Americans' side, it is very clear that they want this type of system. The question is whether they will fully accept the European aspirations for modernising the system of greater transparency, transparency and predictability. So this is an important issue. I think that Europe has taken several steps forward. After all, the European Parliament had a discussion in which Europe's position in this meeting was very positive. I also think we should see that there are a large number of old investment protection agreements around the world. If Europe succeeds in this modernisation, it means that the major trade policy in the world is also being pushed in the right direction, and I think it should be included in the discussions on TTIP as well. We do not have any pre-negotiated texts in this area either. We're not there yet. It is definitely the case, once again, that Sweden and Europe have been very clear about environmental issues. We do not see that these negotiations should lead us to lower our environmental ambitions or that we cannot strengthen our environmental legislation. It has been said both by the American side and by Cecilia Malmström. On the other hand, the fact that we have different forums for discussing standards or regulations is one of the most important points of the TTIP agreement, because that is where the major barriers to trade persist between Europe and the United States now. Not least, it is important for Swedish industry.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-874	Mr President, I would like to I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs earlier whether the precautionary principle was included in the pre-negotiated texts. It would be good to have a clear answer to that. If the precautionary principle is not included in a pre-negotiated agreement in the end, will the Minister of Economic Affairs still say yes to such an agreement? I still do not understand the point that two of the world's largest economies which are solid democracies and which are already trading with each other very much should have an investment court in which large companies can sue states. It is as the Minister for Economic Affairs says: These lawsuits do not affect the legislation itself, but it is part of the double lock that Håkan Svenneling talks about, namely that it can have a deterrent effect. Ask the German state when they got a lawsuit from Swedish Vattenfall for nuclear decommissioning on I think it was 43 billion Swedish kronor! That's a lot of money. It is clear that no state wants such a lawsuit against itself. Ontario in Canada had its renewable energy strategy and was sued by Japan and the EU, as part of this energy would be produced in Canada. I don't understand what the problem was with it, but they also got a lawsuit against themselves and had to pay very high amounts. Then there are a lot of other processes that are in pipeline but that are not decided. However, everything indicates that the number of cases where large companies sue states is constantly increasing. This can be seen in statistics from Unctad, for example. If you are a progressive politician, as I hope our Minister for Economic Affairs is, then perhaps you should close your ears and ask yourself whether we really should have an agreement that risks making it more difficult for us to take the lead in the field of environment, climate and public health. At least that's not what we in the Left Party want.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-879	Mr President, I would like to Again, both negotiating parties, both the US and Europe, have made it clear that TTIP should not result in lower levels of protection in terms of health, the environment or safety, as demonstrated by the negotiating mandates. The EU's proposal for a chapter on good regulatory practice and regulatory cooperation available on the European Commission's website contains clear provisions that nothing should affect the application of fundamental principles of EU law, such as the precautionary principle. There are no consolidated texts there yet. There is no pre-negotiated text in this area yet, as far as I know, and that is why we are not finished negotiating the TTIP in this area. But the EU has been incredibly clear that these basic principles are not up for negotiation. It is also the Swedish position that we should not have such a type of agreement. I just want to conclude by saying that since the negotiations are not finished, you can see a lot of problems and obstacles with everything – or you can see that there are also opportunities. We're not going through a bad negotiation. Europe should not come up with a result that we do not think is good. But there are also huge advantages to an agreement, for both Swedish and European trade, with the United States, which is an important market for us. I said earlier that the most important market for Swedish jobs is actually the American market. There is also a broader perspective with this trade agreement, which is not just about customs, but about regulatory cooperation and standard cooperation. The biggest restriction on our trade with the United States today is precisely these non-tariff barriers to trade that we can try to solve and develop together. There is also another and greater discussion, and that is how trade policy is affected globally. What requirements and standards will apply globally to trade? Here we have the United States and Europe with well-developed democracies and well-developed social systems. I think it is quite good if Europe and the United States can develop and cooperate more in the area of trade, because it also affects other countries globally, which could be an advantage in the long term.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-885	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked the Minister for Finance whether there is any danger that the increase in VAT in cinemas could damage the legitimacy of the system by the fact that taxation hits people in rural areas harder than city dwellers. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who respond to the interpellation. The most important factor that makes people choose to go to the movies is which films are shown. By following the cinema statistics over the years, it is clear that the years that have been shown films – Swedish or foreign – that have high audience attractiveness and that receive a lot of attention increase the number of visitors to the cinemas. The correlation between the number of cinema visits and ticket prices is considerably weaker. Historically, the price of tickets in cinema has increased significantly more than the consumer price index, the CPI, without having any impact on the number of visitors. Between 1994 and 2014, the ticket price increased by 57 per cent in current prices, while the CPI increased by 26 per cent. During the same period, the number of cinema visits has varied both upwards and downwards, and the average has remained stable for more than 15 million cinema visits a year throughout the period. In recent years there has even been a slight increase in the number of visits, despite relatively strong increases in ticket prices. The conversion of film policy aims to create the best possible conditions for the development and production of Swedish film. Good Swedish film is what makes us go to cinema, and the new film policy will thus eventually help to promote the cinema industry. That is not to say that the price is irrelevant. Of course, a sharp increase in ticket prices can affect the number of cinema visitors. However, it is not my view that the price of cinema tickets needs to increase significantly as a result of the increase in VAT. Helena Bouveng claims that the government is carrying out a quadrupling of VAT. That is an incorrect description of the real change. The increase in VAT on access to cinema shows is part of a major change in film policy. The conversion means the abolition of the film agreement that has previously governed film policy. This means that the fee of 10% of the gross ticket revenue paid by the cinema owners to the agreement and used to finance film policy will be abolished. Thus, for the vast majority of cinemas, the VAT increase is largely offset by the removal of the cinema fee. The real increase is normally expected to correspond to an increase in ticket prices of 5 – 6 SEK per ticket. As a result, cinema owners will pay the same VAT rate as other actors who distribute and show films, for example, via the rental of DVDs or digital streaming services. Helena Bouveng argues that the increase in VAT hits rural areas harder than cities and therefore risks damaging the legitimacy of the tax system. I don't see such a risk. On the one hand, as has been pointed out, the impact of the VAT increase is expected to be limited, and on the other hand, it should be pointed out that a large proportion of the smaller cinemas in Sweden, especially in rural areas and in smaller towns, are run by associations. Association cinemas are normally exempt from VAT and are therefore not affected by the increase. However, there is a small group of small cinemas that are privately run and have fewer than five performances a week. These cinemas are exempt from the cinema fee. Special efforts are required for this group of cinemas. The Government has therefore allocated SEK 25 million annually for four years to strengthen cinemas in rural and small towns. Cinemas are an important part of the cultural infrastructure in Sweden. In smaller towns in particular, cinemas are often an important meeting place. The conversion of film policy aims to create better conditions for producing Swedish film. This strengthens the conditions for creating more high-quality films that are demanded by a large audience. In close dialogue with the film industry, the government will follow the transformation of film policy. This also applies, of course, to the effects on cinemas throughout the country.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-895	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank Minister for Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke for moving in instead of Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The question I raised is, in fact, the legitimacy of the tax system, which is definitely the responsibility of the Minister for Finance. With taxes and subsidies, we control behavior. But it also applies to how taxes are levied and whether they are perceived as fair and legitimate. Nevertheless, I can see that the present Red-Green Government does indeed succeed in making people more than upset if they happen to live outside customs. We are talking about increased taxes on petrol, increased taxes on diesel and increased taxes on vehicles, to name but a few and now also a substantial increase in taxes on cinema tickets. In fact, it is taking place with a tax increase from 6% to 25%. It's almost a quadruple of VAT. Surely even the Minister for Culture must consider that to be some kind of shock increase. It is a shock increase that would affect the cinema industry in general but above all the small and medium-sized cinemas around the country. Mr President, I would like to In the so-called film talks with the government, the Alliance tried to be constructive and prepared to broadly discuss the future funding of Swedish films. On one point, however, we were very clear: no shock increase in taxes on cinema tickets, precisely because it targets the cape against the small and medium-sized cinemas around Sweden. These cinemas are located in locations that only have cinema visits as their only cultural offering, at least year-round. There are no state museums offering free entrances. There is no opera, musical or Dramatenscener som m continued to keep the VAT at 6 percent. The cinema is broad, educational and fun for both young and older people. It has no negative health effects, on the contrary, and it does not have a major impact on the public economy. Film at the cinema is basically something that I think the Minister for Culture and I can agree on is a positive part of many people's lives. This is particularly true in those parts of the country where cultural offerings are more than cheap. If the Minister for Culture and I can agree so far, it becomes extremely puzzling to me when the Red-Green Government chooses to shock raise the tax on the visit to the cinema. As I began by saying, the tax governs our behaviour. What you want to see more of taxes you lower, what you want less of taxes you higher. The job tax deduction implemented by the Alliance during its reign is a brilliant example of the fact that when it pays to take a job, more people get into work, when it pays to work a few extra hours, you choose to work a little more hours and when it pays to work higher up the age group, more people choose to work after the age of 65. With the government now making proposals for this shock increase in the cinema ticket, does that mean that the Minister wants to see less cinema visits? Is the Minister of Culture not in the least concerned that the people who live outside Stockholm find themselves unfairly treated when their many times the only cultural offering is taxed four times as much as the many cultural offerings of urban residents?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-902	Mr President, I would like to My colleague Helena Bouveng raises this issue from a fiscal point of view. I would like to add to this the cultural policy insight into this issue. My colleague Helena Bouveng shows the dangers from a fiscal point of view. I would be very interested in the Minister for Culture's answer to: What are the benefits of such a terrible blow to the countryside and to the film industry? The Minister for Culture says in his reply that the most important factor for people going to cinema is what films are shown and not what the price of the cinema show is. If the price does not matter, why in the name of God do you tax the countryside with 25 per cent VAT at the cinema but do it for free for the Stockholmers to go to museums? I do not understand the consistency of that approach. Otherwise, the Minister for Culture's answer raises more questions than it answers. My main question is: what are the best improvements in raising VAT by such a large proportion? I have other questions, too. The Minister for Culture says in his reply that cinema owners will pay the same VAT rate as other actors who distribute and show films, for example by renting DVDs or digital streaming services. It seems that the Minister of Culture is completely unaware of DVD rental has completely disappeared. It no longer exists because there is no market for that matter. Illegal streaming is what's taken over. Does the Minister of Culture mean that there should be no DVD rental, only illegal streaming services and that the cinemas in the countryside should be wiped out, or what does she mean by that? There are a lot of questions that are raised. In another part of the Minister for Culture's reply, she says that there is a small group of small cinemas that are privately driven that may be at risk. But it has been calculated that at least a hundred rural cinemas are in direct danger of being closed down. Cinemas such as Helena Bouveng's home theater in Vetlanda may not exist within a year. It will then be ensured that the people there will not have the opportunity to see either cinema, opera performances or art exhibitions for that matter. There are many issues that are very worrying. In the last paragraph of the reply, the Minister for Culture says that the government will follow the transformation of film policy. I thought it was leading the transformation of film policy. The government has put a bill on Parliament's table that one might fear leads to the forest.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-909	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng brings out errors that I would like to take this opportunity to correct so that there are no more than Bouveng who are moving on with the wrong facts under their feet. There is no shock to cinemas. Bouveng deliberately forgets to mention that we are removing the cinema fee. Then the real effect is not an increase from 6 to 25 %, but an increase from 16 to 25 %, no more and no less. I think it is important not to deceive people but to tell them what it actually means in reality. Helena Bouveng also believes that a possible increase in the price of cinema tickets will mean that people will no longer go to the cinema. It is an interesting theory, but I wonder what studies and analyses have been made of this in order to live up to that claim. I would like to have those studies sent to me and read them, because the figures and analyses on which the Ministry of Culture is based show that there is no clear correlation between the cinema ticket price and the number of cinema visitors. So there is no risk that we would destroy the industry. On the contrary, I would like to repeat that the strongest factor behind cinema visits is what films are shown. That is precisely why, Mr President, it is important that we, as responsible politicians and not least as Minister for Culture, do the best we can for the Swedish film – that we create good production conditions and develop the opportunities for the film to reach many more. This is important not least in rural and small towns. That is precisely why we have in the careful analyses we have done at the Ministry of Culture, where we have faced the challenge of giving Swedish film better conditions, also ensuring that the Swedish film will reach more people throughout our country. That is why we have a clear programme. The 25 million extra we spend for four years on cinemas in rural areas, we are relatively sure, will be enough for much more than just support for cinemas. We will probably also be able to develop cinemas, in other words get more viewing places, which is good for all of us. The biggest thing we are now doing is that we, the current government, take responsibility for the criticism that has been highlighted by the Swedish film industry for a very long time. We take the responsibility that the bourgeois government and the Moderate Minister of Culture chose not to take. Despite the fact that the various actors in the Swedish film industry shouted for better conditions, the film's future was left to be negotiated around a table with fewer and fewer actors – clumpy actors who governed the Swedish film in detail. Now we give the Swedish film freedom. We give it the freedom to develop and the freedom to become a strong player for the future of Swedish cinema.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-917	Mr President, I would like to In the memorandum, the Ministry of Culture states that this means SEK 260 million into the Treasury. This at the same time as the state museum authorities, as my colleague Cecilia Magnusson mentioned, received increased funding of SEK 80 million to finance free admission for cultural lovers here in Stockholm. Thus, the cost of our cinema visits increases by 260 million. In fact, it is not only me or Cecilia Magnusson who is concerned, but also the Swedish Cinema owners' association. It is said that there are many different opinions about the film agreement and film policy among Sweden's cinema owners, but that this shock increase in the tax on the cinema ticket affects more than negative they agree on. The Minister of Culture requested studies. Yes, one can at least read what the International Union of Cinemas has written. Criticism has been levelled at the proposed increase in VAT on cinema tickets in Sweden. Reference is made to Spain, where in 2012 the VAT on cinema tickets was increased from 8% to 21% – an increase of 13 percentage points. It is believed that it forced Spanish cinemas to close, and the total number of cinema visits decreased by 15 percent. There are more examples from European countries showing that the increase in VAT has hit cinemas hard. Latvia increased VAT less than Portugal; yet cinema visits to Latvia decreased by as much as 20%. In Portugal, they fell by 17%. There is therefore strong reason to believe that many cinemas around Sweden will find it difficult to fill the salons after the 19-percent increase in bio-VAT by the Red-Green Government next year. In my hometown of Vetlanda, as mentioned by my colleague Cecilia Magnusson, the closure of the Saga cinema would mean the disappearance of the only cultural offering available all year round. I would like to ask a few simple questions: does the Minister of Culture think that is reasonable? Does the Minister of Culture think that Vetlanda people think it is fair and legitimate to put a wet blanket with taxes over the only year-round range of culture that Vetlanda has to offer?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-925	Mr President, I would like to I haven't got any answers to any of my questions. But I have more, so the Minister for Culture will have the chance to answer my new questions – and preferably also to those I asked earlier. I was going to start with the 25 million that the Minister for Culture raised, at least in her reply to Helena Bouveng, and, as she says, will strengthen cinemas in rural areas. That's $2 million for a few years. Then what? And how much of that money goes into strengthening the cinemas that exist today? The Government's directive to the Film Institute says that you should invest in complementary cinemas. In addition to the deterioration of the existing cinemas, the Minister for Culture wants there to be increased competition in those places that will already find it very difficult to survive. What kind of approach is that? What does the Minister of Culture think? Also, please give us answers on how much will go to these cinemas and what will happen when the grant is over. I think it is the Minister for Culture who is tricky, because after this bill there is no freedom of action for the industry. Please, Minister of Culture! I would appreciate to know if you can confirm that you are going to lead the transformation of film policy or if you have abdicated and are just going to follow it.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-930	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely interesting to listen to moderate cultural politicians who, in large words, put down initiatives to promote culture and promote Swedish cinema, not least because they had eight years to do something, to invest, to listen to those who can and want to. What we are doing now is investing in culture and film. We meet all the voices from the industry that have asked for more space, more opportunities and better conditions. We are now doing so in the proposal that we have put forward. The cinemas are and are an essential part of the cultural infrastructure in Sweden. In smaller towns in particular, the cinema is an important meeting place. That is precisely why we have emphasised and reviewed the conditions of small towns – including Vetlandas – in the basis we have developed. I am convinced that in the coming years Vetlanda residents will have many questions to ask about the alarm reports that were painted when they see how much culture takes place and how much more Swedish film will be made and shown also in Vetlanda. The fate of Swedish film policy is no longer referred to a table of agreements. It is astounding, Mr President, that the Swedish Parliament has not been able to discuss film policy and that it has been confined and removed from the table of this House. Now, at last, it will be a big deal for many years to come. This is where film policy will be decided. Here are the targets for it, and here we are going to follow it up. Here we will debate and discuss it. The film is an extremely strong cultural tool, and that is what we are now creating the conditions for. The vast majority of all referrals welcomed a rescheduling of Swedish film policy, and it feels fantastic to have that support behind us as we present it. I also look forward very much to the influence that the industry will have on its reality, on the film, with the three industry councils that we are setting up. It will be a big thing to be able, for the first time, to actually influence and not have detailed one-year agreements, as it has been recently. One-year agreements – when we all know it takes years to make a film! Then you have abdicated and given the film industry bad conditions. VAT increases for cinemas must be seen in their context. It is part of a major change, a major reform of the whole film policy. It will in many ways contribute positively to the possibilities of Swedish cinemas to develop. We create better conditions. The state takes the big responsibility. We have set aside funding to protect, strengthen and even invest further in rural cinema.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-937	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the Minister for Culture has probably not met either the cinema owner or the cinema visitor in Vetlanda. You don't feel at ease the same way as the Minister of Culture. With this proposal, Sweden will be the only country in Europe to exclude cinemas from the cultural sector by having a different VAT rate for culture. Some countries, such as Denmark, have the same VAT on everything, while countries such as Austria, Finland, Germany and the Netherlands have significantly lower VAT on culture, where the visit to the cinema is actually included. A visit to the cinema is equated to a visit to the Dramatic Theatre, Oscars or Opera. In other words, one does not think that one or the other cultural visit is more or less cultural, and regardless of where in the country one lives, culture is taxed in an equivalent way. I have to ask the question: does the Minister of Culture really think that this is fair to those who live outside customs? Can it be considered fair that families with children in big cities have access to culture for a significantly lower amount of money than families with children outside big cities? Is it fair that 80 million of our tax money goes to free admission for cultural lovers in Stockholm while the largest and often only cultural pleasure in the country is taxed at 260 million SEK?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-940	Mr President, I would like to If it's fair, Helena Bouveng asks. What a good thing we are a red-green government that does so much more than just free entrance and a big movie reform! It's a hell of a ride. What if we had been a moderate-led government that did not have so many cultural policy tools to invest in and did not have that will and courage? We are also investing in culture school, so the children and families in Vetlanda will have a cultural school that will develop over the next few years. We invest a lot in Äga rum, a huge effort to enable people to make more culture based on the identified needs of CSOs. We have a whole palette. We make 8, 10, 15 big bets. We don't have just one or two tools. When you look at the reform with free admission or on film policy, you should look at a huge initiative. What Sweden is now is a country that, thanks to the Red Green Government, invests in culture, unlike many countries in Europe that are currently cutting back on cultural policy. As far as culture is concerned, the current government is investing. We've raised the cultural budget. We invest in culture in general, and we invest in the Swedish film. We give the Swedish film better conditions, so that we who love Swedish film will have more Swedish film to watch. It's good for everyone. It is good for the cinemas in the cities but even more for the cinemas in the countryside. It's simply a win-win situation.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-944	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Hökmark has asked me what measures I intend to take to facilitate private initiatives and entrepreneurship in the cultural sector and to facilitate more new jobs and a widening of the labour market for cultural workers. Isabella Hökmark argues in this context that cinema visits and thus the film industry will be adversely affected by the increased VAT on cinema tickets. I mean, that's a small risk. The increase in VAT on access to cinema shows is part of a major change in film policy. The conversion aims to create better conditions for producing Swedish film. This strengthens the conditions for the creation of more high-quality films that are demanded by a large audience, which benefits cinemas. The conversion also means abolishing the 10% of gross ticket revenues paid by cinema owners today and used to finance film policy. The real cost increase is therefore normally estimated to correspond to an increase in ticket prices of approximately SEK 5 – 6 per ticket. The government does not estimate that it will have a decisive impact on the number of cinema visits, as what determines whether people choose to go to cinema in the first place is access to high-quality films. In addition, the Government has allocated SEK 25 million annually for four years to specifically strengthen cinemas in rural and small towns. Isabella Hökmark also believes that the reform of free admission to state museums affects the competitive position of privately funded museums. The government believes that equal access to the common cultural heritage is a democratic right. It is important that as many people as possible experience that the museums are for them. An important step along this path is to remove the threshold imposed by the entrance fee. Evaluations of the previous period of free admission show that the reform opened the door to cultural heritage for more visitors and to new groups of citizens. At the same time, the reform did not entail any major changes in the audience performance of the museums that had left the entrance fee. Cultural policy shall be based on the freedom of art and the intrinsic value of culture. The fact that we have artists who are in a position to freely practice their profession and opportunities to develop their artistry is fundamental in this context. The government has strengthened the alliances in the field of performing arts, thereby providing freelance actors, musicians and dancers with increased security, made a historic increase in the state library remuneration for authors in the word field, tightened the requirements for applying the so-called participation and exhibition agreement, and we continue to work in various ways to strengthen the position of artists. Economic activities where value is made up of cultural goods, services or processes are becoming increasingly important for the development of society and must have the same conditions and opportunities for development as other industries. Cooperation between different policy areas is of great importance in this context, not least at regional level. At the Ministry of Culture, we are currently working on a review of the cultural cooperation model, for example due to the follow-up carried out by the Committee on Culture. This review may also allow attention to be paid to the work carried out by regionally relevant cultural and creative industries. Within the framework of the Government's export strategy, cultural and creative industries are specifically identified. The aim is to make better use of the development potential of the area on the international stage through various actions. Within the framework of this work, the Government also intends to return with special efforts.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-952	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer to the Government. The problem is that the Minister for Culture does not really seem to want to understand the issue. It is as if the Government and the Government do not seem to want to see the breadth and breadth of Swedish cultural society because they are so focused on the part that the state stands for. You don't see the entire cultural forest because of the many state cultural trees. They are important in themselves, but you don't see the whole cultural community. My questions are about what the Government wants to do to facilitate private cultural creation and what the Minister for Culture wants us to do to get a larger labour market and a larger field of activity for the many cultural creators and entrepreneurs in Swedish society. However, the answer I have received relates to increased public expenditure on government activities. That is what, in my view, is helping to undermine the private sector's position at the moment. The question is how we get more jobs. In the initiatives that the government has made and which the Minister of Culture has told us about before and which are very proud of, there are among other things the 180 million – there is 80 million to free admission to museums and 100 million to the municipal music school. It doesn't give any more jobs, because there's no money for the business. It doesn't give any more teachers in the music school. It doesn't give any more employees in the museums. It is clear that this makes a difference for the private museums that exist and that have entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who have invested their own money – we should be happy and grateful for that. They create many jobs and contribute to more culture. It is clear that there is a difference if they have to charge a fee while state museums are subsidised even more. This is also the case for the private music schools around Sweden. Of course this makes a big difference to them. Yes, perhaps that is not the case if you operate in moderate-controlled Danderyd. There we are giving contributions to the private music school so that there is not so much difference. But I was in Östersund. There it was a happy environmental party, who was municipal councillor, who boasted that it costs 400 SEK per semester. But I met a private music teacher who charged a fee of $1,000 to run his business. It is clear that the difference will be even greater if, as you say, charges are reduced. How to stimulate entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship by providing increased subsidies to government activities? That's my question.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-958	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue, which addresses the various aspects of the importance of culture in society. The intrinsic value of culture is extremely important, and culture is carried by individual practitioners who can do in freedom what they feel they want to do. At the same time, culture is a very important part of developing society. These are important industries made up of institutions, government and municipal authorities. But there are also a lot of individual practitioners who support this in most areas. That is what my colleague Isabella Hökmark is defending and wants to have a discussion about. Like Isabella, I feel that the Minister for Culture is not interested in the broad popular anchoring and those who practice culture widely, as if we are doing the wrong things risk not being. Then there will only be state, municipal and regional institutions. We need to see both sides of this. That's why I'm a little worried about the Minister for Culture's response. As in the previous interpellation debate, the Minister answers more questions than answers. Of course you might think it's a good idea to have a free entrance – I understand that. But there is a risk of destroying the breadth of new museums that have come. The Minister for Culture says that the audience performance of the museums that existed was not affected. But now it is a completely different reality from last time. It's extremely serious. The breadth and diversity, which I thought the Minister of Culture was protecting, are in danger of deteriorating. There are many questions. The Minister of Culture says the government has strengthened the alliances. How? And the Minister of Culture has not contributed more money to the MU agreement? After all, it was the Alliance Government that made powerful revisions to that agreement and that ensured that we provided better conditions. What makes me very concerned about the government and the Minister for Culture's understanding of this is the export strategy and the influence of the Swedish Institute. The Moderates of the Committee on Culture have visited Artipelag, among other things. It is a fantastic private museum near Stockholm. They say: we would like to go outwards, but the state institutions are paying such high costs for us to contribute, so we do not have a chance. Only the major institutions can contribute, which have a great deal to do. We who are small cannot contribute. It's not supposed to be like that. Or does the Minister of Culture think so?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-964	Mr President, I would like to I find it very interesting to listen to moderate cultural politicians. Someone might actually think that you made a lot of efforts over eight years, when you had the power and the Ministry of Culture, which we have now removed. The truth is that there is not a single area in which we are not better. This is almost on the verge of tragicomic. What do we do to enable more cultural workers to develop within the cultural and creative industries? The government's policy for KKN, as it is summarised, is largely a collaboration between the Ministry of Economic Affairs of Damberg and my department and authorities, including the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish National Council for Culture. In addition, it is cooperation with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs on the export strategy that exists. In this work, of course, it is extremely important that we stimulate small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises in various ways, and create better conditions for people with ideas and people who want to engage in entrepreneurial activities to do this and to have the opportunity to survive on their often, at first, shaky activities. It is difficult to be self-employed and self-employed, as many cultural workers are. That's why it is very central in the government's overall policy for cultural and creative industries that we have strengthened the performing arts alliances and thus, as I said in my first speech, given actors, musicians and dancers an increased security. Member of Parliament Cecilia Magnusson asked: How? It is an amazing question from a Member of Parliament who is on the Committee on Culture. The answer is: Yes, with money, with funding. It is also crucial that we have made a historic increase in the library remuneration for authors and copyright holders to receive a larger remuneration when their works are lent. In the area by area we invest, strengthen and create better conditions for cultural workers and their industries. I have further examples from the export strategy that exists. This is a total investment of SEK 800 million in 2016 – 2019. Then we have particularly highlighted small and medium-sized enterprises. And we are currently working on a special loan guarantee instrument within the framework of Creative Europe that may have a major impact on the cultural and creative industries in Sweden. But, as I said, the 20 million reinforcement of the Stage Alliance, to a total of 81.8 million, is an important part of a labour market policy, because many cultural workers are also freelancers.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-971	Mr President, I would like to As a moderate Member, the Minister of Culture is asking me what happened during the last parliamentary term. I know in any case that in Stockholm four private museums started: Fotografiska, Abbamuseet, Sven-Harry-Harrys konstmuseum and Artipelag. It felt like a pretty good climate for them to start under the alliance government, so apparently it was good. We reduced taxes, employers' contributions for young people and taxes for businesses and jobs, which made people work more and felt that they could invest. Now it's just the opposite. It is neither the Minister for Culture nor I who creates any jobs in Sweden, but four out of five jobs are created in small and medium-sized private companies. It is important to ensure that there is a good climate for them. It is part of the small creative industries, which belong to the area of the Minister of Culture. I would like to take one example: film. Today, not so much film is produced in Sweden because it is too expensive. There are 17 EU countries with production rebates. Film producers are fleeing Sweden. I wonder whether the Minister for Culture sees it as a problem or not and realises that something may have to be done about it, so that the film producers come back. You can talk to creative industries like the fashion industry, where H&M is the biggest. They account for most of the exports and do well. But if we talk to smaller companies, they are talking about problems with capital injections, export subsidies and taxes. It touches other areas than that of the Minister for Culture, I understand, but I would still like to hear whether the Minister for Culture does not have a strategy with other departments to address these problems. It's important, because this is where the jobs are created. Therefore, my question is simply whether the government really does not have a strategy to stimulate private initiatives that enable more cultural workers to develop their activities through their own work and entrepreneurship. Does the government have a strategy for this, or does it not?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-976	Mr President, I would like to It is always as exciting to hear the Minister for Culture trying to explain and answer the questions we are asking in this House. I think it's great if the Minister for Culture can change the export strategy that is now in place, so that Artipelag and other private museums can also be involved in marketing Sweden. Today they are experiencing an impossible situation in this area. Good luck, Minister of Culture! In fact, there are more cultural practitioners than those in the alliances. That is why it is extremely important to support other initiatives, such as the Swedish Academy of Culture, which looks after the film workers, those who are behind the camera, those who make films. These are very important parts of the new film policy that the Minister for Culture says he wants to defend. The Minister for Culture did not mention anything about the cultural cooperation model, which the Ministry of Culture is apparently looking at now. Can the Minister of Culture tell us what to look at when it comes to regionally driven cultural and creative industries, so that we know and can prepare for what is coming? It is extremely important that private and public players have a level playing field, so that we can have a diversity in society around cultural industries. It is important to lead the development – not, as the Minister for Culture says when it comes to film policy, to follow developments. You're supposed to lead the development. Is the Minister of Culture going to do that?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-981	Mr President, I would like to Of course, cooperation between ministers and ministries is needed to create the best conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. As I said at the beginning, that's exactly what we're doing. Minister Damberg and I are working together, and our departments and authorities are working together. The strategies and the export strategy that we have also place particular emphasis on cultural and creative industries. We also look at how we can strengthen in other ways to stimulate and create the conditions for cultural workers to feel even more than today that Swedish labour market policy and the Swedish business climate are a climate where they dare to invest and invest. There, too, the alliances play a major role. Of course there are artists and cultural workers outside them. But the reinforcement that we have done has been crucial and important for more people to dare to educate themselves and to have the courage to believe that you can live and survive as an artist in the field of performing arts. More needs to be done. This is an area that is not just a Swedish matter but not least a European matter. It is therefore exciting with the various instruments to be developed to stimulate investment in cultural and creative industries. I am convinced that much more needs to be done. But I am also absolutely convinced that a policy is needed that puts culture high, that wants to show young and elderly – but above all the young people who study at universities and think about an artistic profession – that in Sweden you can live as an artist and can have high ambitions in the cultural and creative industries. Not all designers will be H&M. Many designers today struggle on their knees to get their productions to go around. A great deal of encouragement is needed from different parts, different initiatives and courageous efforts to create better conditions than is currently the case.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-986	Mr President, I would like to In 2010, 117 000 entrepreneurs were active in creative industries. In addition, the number of companies increased on average 5% between 2008 and 2010 when the alliance government worked to reduce taxes and corporate taxes to make it easier for companies to hire and operate. I wonder what it will look like today, if the opposite happens, that you raise taxes both for businesses and for individuals. I wish – these are my last words to the Minister for Culture – that the Minister for Culture can see that cultural society is much larger than the state and thinks of the status of culture as a whole. I would like to repeat the two questions that I had in my original interpellation, because I do not think I have received an answer to them. What measures does the Minister for Culture and Democracy intend to take to facilitate private initiatives and entrepreneurship in the cultural sector? What measures does the Minister for Culture and Democracy intend to take to facilitate more new jobs and a widening of the labour market for cultural workers?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-989	Mr President, I would like to The measures I have already taken are about creating better conditions for living and surviving as a cultural worker, and it is about monitoring cultural and creative industries in close cooperation with Minister Damberg and with the various strategies that exist to stimulate a good business climate and climate. It is a lot about cooperation and strategies. But it is also about the social structures around the cultural workers that create security and opportunities. Somewhere in the middle, like a heart or a core, it is also a matter of seeing the intrinsic value of culture, which is so much more than nutrition and tax cuts and which has a self-worth in itself and therefore needs a Minister of Culture to look after interests with that particular perspective.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-991	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Billström has asked me what conclusions I draw from the revelations about the invitations to Salman al-al-Ouda from various associations in Malmö. Furthermore, he has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to comply with the Council of Europe resolutions and conclusions in a report on anti-Semitism approved by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in April. The government prioritises the fight against racism in all its forms. Anti-Semitism and other forms of racism are contrary to the principle of the equal value of all human beings and are ultimately a threat to the whole core values on which democracy rests. In our first declaration of government, the Prime Minister stated that there should be no place for anti-Semitism, anti-Ziganism, Islamophobia and aphrophobia in our country. All general anti-racism measures include anti-Semitism. For example, the government has commissioned the Living History Forum to undertake a comprehensive educational effort on various forms of racism in history and today. Several other authorities are also taking action against racism and anti-Semitism. For example, the Swedish Agency for Education is taking a knowledge-raising initiative in school on racism. The National Media Council conducts the No Hate Speech Movement campaign, and the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society issues distributes grants in accordance with a regulation on state grants to activities against racism and similar forms of intolerance. The government is now working to develop a national action plan against racism and hate crime. The government thus rejects all manifestations of racism and anti-Semitism. However, the government cannot control which individuals different associations choose to invite. According to the national coordinator's survey of municipalities' work on violent extremism, many municipalities have recognised the seriousness of radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremism and started work on developing local action plans. In Malmö municipality, a project to prevent radicalisation is currently under way, with support from the Swedish National Heritage Fund. In addition to the municipality, organisations and religious communities are included in this initiative.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-997	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Democracy for his answer, although it is difficult to understand any real answer to my questions. It has been three weeks since the infamous Salafist imam Salman al-al-Ouda visited my constituency of Malmö and there participated in a fundraising gala. It was a visit that had to be totally condemned. What Salman al-al-Ouda represents is by now well known, and so was it at the time of his visit. He is a Salafist and thus professes the extreme form of Islam that is literal in relation to the Qur'an and thus stands in opposition to Swedish legislation regarding, for example, the rights of LGBT persons. It is, by the way, an event that looks like an idea that we have this debate on 17 May, which is the International Day against Homo-, Bi- and Transphobia. Salafism also does not recognise women's equal standing with men and expressly rejects the states which have this basic principle inscribed in their constitution and case law. Salman al-al-Ouda is also a pronounced Holocaust-denier who has called the Holocaust a myth of immense proportions. The latter is an issue that should very much have led to reactions from the government in view of the vulnerable position of Malmö, the city he chose to visit, Jews living under. It was thus one of the foremost global representatives of this reprehensible religious ideology who visited Sweden, Malmö and the dance palace Admiralen on the Walpurgis Night and who spoke for full houses before hundreds of people present. Surely a government that calls itself feminist should have had something to say about Salman al-al-Ouda. One might think that the government, when admission became a known fact through South Sweden's reporting, should have expressed its opinion on the visit and on the nature of the visitor – and that the Minister for Democracy in her capacity as Minister for Democracy and Human Rights, as well as the policy against discrimination, racism and intolerance – the latter should not have been important in this context – should have raised the voice and demonstrated what values the Swedish state stands for. However, to state in my reply to me here today that the government cannot control which people different associations choose to invite is not an answer. It looks more like an escape. The fact is that it is only today, when we stand in this House on my initiative, that the government has been asked to say anything at all. In addition, there is reason to remind the Minister that the message of the Salafists and Salman al-Ouda-Ouda also turns to those Muslims who follow the Shiite direction of Islam with hateful messages about demands for conversion from this direction to what the Salafists call real Islam. However, the Shia Muslims who live in Sweden in peaceful coexistence with us must be told clearly that they are also protected against intolerance and that the Swedish state is on their side with regard to freedom of religion. My question to the Minister for Democracy is, of course: why were no statements made about the visit by the government?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-1011	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy for his reply and, at the same time, to congratulate her on a place on the Party Executive of the Green Party. The Green Party has been involved in a crisis in the last month. That crisis is also a sign of a wider societal problem, I mean. Sweden has long had difficulties in handling the discussion on fundamental values and in taking a clear stand between right and wrong. Here I judge that our whole society needs a fresh start. The environmental party crisis was triggered by Mehmet Kaplan's association with Islamic and fascist movements. Then followed the debate on Yasri Khan, which was proposed to the MP Party Executive, and his refusal to take women in hand and the fact that in a previous debate he did not clearly distance himself from the death penalty for atheistic bloggers in Saudi Arabia. The discussion then followed on what this interpellation concerns, namely the invitation of a representative of the Green Party to the imam al-al-Ouda, who, as I said, called the Holocaust a myth of enormous proportions. All in all, these various events are a result of the fact that there has long been a fear in Swedish society of being perceived as intolerant if you clearly mark against behaviours and opinions that exist in some other cultures and traditions in the world but are incompatible with Swedish, democratic values. I think it is time to finally settle this position. The unwillingness to stand up for the values of our society has produced a number of harmful effects. Police have identified dozens of particularly vulnerable areas where criminal elements dominate. But the state is weak, not only is there room for criminal action. Too many people testify to attempts to remove women from the public space and control women's dress. Young people get their life choices limited by honor-related oppression. Voices are raised to keep the sexes separate for religious and cultural reasons in baths or on sfi courses. It is clear that Swedish society has so far not taken sufficient steps to regain control in areas where criminals and fundamentalists have been given a great deal of space. Too few have realised that in a number of places we are facing a serious crisis of valuation. I would like to go so far as to say that the vulnerability of women in some of our suburban areas is the most acute problem in terms of equality and human rights in our society today. Therefore, there must now be an end to the woe and humming of people who oppose the equal value of all. Protecting our values requires both words and actions. It is important to take measures such as the need for new arrivals to undergo a proper social orientation, the need for newly arrived women to be helped to work, and the need for the police and other authorities to be present at all times of the day in all parts of Sweden. Last autumn we had a debate on radicalisation and extremism in which Parliament broadly agreed on a number of announcements to the government to strengthen its work against this. Even if all this is done, a sustained value debate is needed to maintain and strengthen support for our open democratic society. Here I share Tobias Billström's concern about the rather pale answer that the Minister for Culture has given to today's interpellation. Tobias Billström asked why the Minister for Democracy was not clearly marked against imam al-al-Ouda's visit to Malmö. I agree with this question. Is the Minister for Culture and Democracy prepared to take an active part in the debate on values and to fight against those who are opposed to openness, equality and freedom?
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-1023	Mr President, I would like to Am I prepared to take part in the debate? I think I'm leading it. I'm worried Tobias Billström hasn't noticed. At the same time, I am a little puzzled, because I get a lot of criticism for being too clear, which I don't care about. I see it as my primary task as Minister of Culture and Democracy to defend the fundamental values, our constitutions, our freedoms and, not least, the importance of the equal value of all people. I'm not dropping anything or anyone over the bridge. I very much share the concern about Salafism, and I share the view that we must dare to speak out and take up forcefully, with the democratic methods at our disposal. But I am also very keen that we know where our different borders are. It is not the government that controls civil society organisations. It is not the government that tells associations and organisations who or who they invite. Surely we do not want such a society, I hope the Members of Parliament will agree with me. However, there are tools that the government can initiate and use. These are tools that I have wondered why the previous government did not take up. For example, one can review how the various state subsidies are distributed and how they are given. The bourgeois government had eight years to do so, and several voices were raised about it. This is not a new debate or discussion. It did not come up a year and a half ago, but it has been going on for a long time. Of course, this makes me unhappy and angry, and it calls me even more power and energy when I hear and see that too much glides under the radar and becomes part of a kind of reality where Salafists and people who promote hate and hate messages and who do not respect the equal value of all people are given space. I want to say that I've been clear. I will continue to be clear. I am not afraid to speak of values, and I dare to take the conflicts where I feel I am on my feet so that I can take them on the basis of our constitutionally protected freedoms and the democratic principles on which we have built our country and which we believe should govern our practices.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-1029	Mr President, I would like to It is clear to me that, following the numerous declarations against anti-Semitism and tolerance adopted by the Council of Europe and its parliamentary assembly, a Swedish government should not have been able to remain passive when a person like Salman al-al-Ouda appears on our territory. Our membership of the Council of Europe and our position as one of the first states to establish this institution for the protection of human rights oblige us to do so. Yet it was just the opposite that the government did. No reaction came from the government when it became known that Salman al-al-Ouda had been invited to the gala in Malmö. The clarity to which the Minister refers in this House tonight shone with his absence. One detail that may have contributed to this is, of course, the fact that the invitation to Salman al-al-Ouda was made by a local environmental-partisan municipal elected representative and party partner of the Minister for Democracy and that he then intensively defended the invitation when the person was interviewed in the media, especially in South Sweden's Dagbladet. I and several others see in this a very worrying pattern, as well as in the fact that the Minister for Democracy was personally passive on this issue. It makes me and many others, I think, think, think about and be surprised at the government's lack of interest in these key issues. Intolerance cannot be combated by silence. Nor can we avoid discussing difficult issues simply because we are concerned about them or about possible reactions, as my colleague, Andreas Norlén, has highlighted in his speech here today. On the contrary, it is in these moments that strong and clear leadership is required. In his response to me in this House this evening, the Minister has listed what is said in the Government Declaration and the Government's ambitions and strategies in the field of combating intolerance and anti-Semitism. But these are of course a non-obligation spirit if the same government silences and goes and hides as soon as someone comes to our country with the intention of spreading views that are contrary to these fundamental values of ours, which is exactly what happened in this case three weeks ago. If so, what are the benefits of government declarations and strategies? If so, who is to exercise leadership? As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where I am a representative of Sweden, is actively monitoring its Member States, as our country is. Tomorrow we will have a visit by the Minister for Democracy to the Assembly's Committee on Equality and Non-Discrimination, which is holding a meeting here in Stockholm in the Riksdag. I would like to point out to the Minister for Democracy that the Assembly will return with a request for an account of how Sweden works to prevent and counteract both anti-Semitism and intolerance. In the meantime, my recommendation is to intensify this struggle and stop being silent when people with reprehensible messages travel to our country to market them. Freedom of expression does not mean freedom from being criticized for its views, and the government's task is not to be a passive spectator but to lead.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-1040	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, gratifying that the Minister for Culture points out that she is not afraid of the debate on values which is now on the way in our country and which should have been much more lively for much longer. It is high time that we now discuss the conflicts that arise when our Swedish democratic value system meets value systems with roots in other cultures, traditions and religions. I think it is important to point out that the fact that we defend our values is not about rejecting certain religions. Honorary oppression, genital mutilation, forced marriages and similar reprehensible practices exist in several cultures. The fight against extremist Islamism takes place as much within Islam as between the extremists and the Western world. Millions of Muslims live integrated into Western societies and do not want to be forced upon fundamentalist standards. If you look at photographs from the 70s Kabul or Tehran you see young women in Western clothes, that is, the desire for freedom and to get dressed and live as you like are everywhere. That is why I, too, am somewhat concerned about the fact that the government did not clearly mark the visit. As I said in my previous speech, concrete political action is good. There is a need for a series of policy measures and strong action, but words, debate, values and marks are also needed. You do not win a valuation debate simply by withdrawing state subsidies, but you also have to explain why you are doing so and on what basis of values you are building your policy. I call for more clarity from the Minister for Culture in this and other situations.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-1045	Mr President, I would like to When Tobias Billström tries to scare me with what I have to do until the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly invites him next time, I must nevertheless remind him how much more the government does when compared with the previous government when it comes to combating everything from violent extremism to the various forms of racism, including anti-Ziganism and anti-Semitism. We've more than doubled the stakes. No one should have to doubt that this government intends to combat and combat all forms of racism and intolerance with force. We will continue that work and we will continue to fund it. Of course, it takes more than fine words. It is not only possible to have a fine declaration of government with words that break new ground; it requires investing in activities and taking a stand all the time. I've been accused of too much, but being cowardly and not daring to take conflicts is not on my list. I'll take any fight with anyone and at any time, using democratic methods. I am pleased that we are having this discussion, because I think it also calls for great deeds from the Moderates, because it is two Moderates who lead this debate and discussion. It is about what you can do both in opposition and in a possible boring future, if you are in government. Then I will be watching you so that we continue to have this high tone and to fight racism and extremism and so that you are equally clear and powerful then. I believe that this is welcome and that we must be able to keep many balls in the air. Just as Andreas Norlén said, the forces of hatred – the forces of darkness – are beating anyone who wants freedom. This is what is so sad. It is our constitutional freedoms that we should both be proud of and dare to debate and discuss. But we need to be able to hold many balls in the air, and we need to know our seats and what we control and what we don't. Then there are some low hanging fruits that I wonder why the previous government did not pick, for example to review our systems. What are the consequences if we find that an organisation or an association of civil society that has received state aid, for example, has invited a speaker with hateful messages or even Salafism? We must dare and be able to review such regulations. But it didn't take much sooner. But I am now making part of such a review. As I said, there are many different tools to use. We will use them all, and I am proud to lead this work.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-1054	Mr President, I would like to I think that tonight's discussion has shown two things. It has shown that it is important to be consistent in our opposition to ideologies, to religions and to movements that do not want to grant the same and equal value to all people. It is a duty for those who wish to claim to represent Sweden never to refrain from standing up for law and right or for the conventions that Sweden has signed. This is particularly true if activities in the opposite direction – towards democracy and for intolerance – take place on our own territory, and in particular if they are carried out by individuals travelling to Sweden or returning with such intentions or views. The discussion has also shown the need for the Minister for Democracy not to remain silent or selective in the future, but strongly rejects those who are spreading hateful messages, whether behind a religious or political front, and that she is attentive to visits to Sweden by individuals who have a hidden or open agenda of discrimination against other people. It is an important part of safeguarding the core of Swedish democracy. Feel free to withdraw state subsidies from those who do not live up to the regulations – absolutely. But do not be silent on these matters. With these words, I would like to thank the Government for the debate.
i-c11d1a7b2b6b7a56-1058	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Tobias Billström and Andreas Norlén for the debate. I believe that we must hold this debate and dare to dwell on it. It is made far too easy into a black or a white question. I believe that it is precisely in the grey areas that we need to mark and protect the values that we stand for, and that we are concerned about, to include all people, regardless of whether you are a woman living in a suburb where there are so-called expedient policemen. Looking between our fingers on such matters is distasteful, shameful and unworthy of us and our values and what people have been fighting for in our country for centuries. There are a number of issues that concern the same subjects that we need to be on guard about and actually hear what is being said between the lines and dare to take the difficult discussions. I thank you for the debate and wish you a good night.
