i-8061bf4801e5432f-2	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how Swedish aid is used to bring about a change of name for 25 schools that today according to the questioner are named after terrorists, how the aid can be conditional so that payments to Palestinian terrorists cease and whether agreements between the Palestinian Authority and Sweden contain conditions that stipulate that operations financed with Swedish aid must not contribute to sedition and, if so, how it is ensured that this does not happen. First of all, I would like to make it clear to the questioner that support for the education sector or the Ministry of Education is not part of the strategy for Palestine decided by the government for the period 2015– 2019. So there is no earmarked Swedish aid to the schools mentioned by the questioner here. In my interpellation response of 5 May 2015, I outlined the content of the cooperation agreement between Sweden and Palestine, which includes a number of partnership principles. Among them is a mutual commitment to promote democratisation and greater respect for human rights and gender equality in Palestine. Since the recognition of Palestine, Sweden's relationship with Palestine has deepened. This increases the opportunity for Sweden to hear our views on Palestinian action. Sweden calls in its implementation for good control and respect for human rights, the fight against corruption, work for gender equality and continued reform efforts. Sweden has regular development policy dialogue with the Palestinian leadership. The Jerusalem Consulate General follows up on each individual programme, all of which are rights-based. Sweden's support to the Palestinian Authority is channelled through the EU. The EU, on behalf of all Member States, is leading the follow-up of support to the Palestinian Authority through the so-called Pegase Mechanism. It covers different types of sectoral support with clear objectives and indicators, such as health support in the social sector. The follow-up of aid is rigorous. The Swedish Government has been clear in its rejection of terrorist acts. The government has made it clear that the Palestinian stabbings are reprehensible and must be condemned by everyone, that violence must be brought to an immediate end and that recent violence shows that the situation is unsustainable. The government is clear in its dialogue with representatives of both Palestine and Israel on the importance of disassociating itself from violence and hate speech and other actions that take the parties further apart. The Government's ambition is that Sweden's aid, in addition to its stated goals, will contribute to counteracting hate speech and sedition. Finally, I shall refer to what UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon has said: the whole international community must be more committed than ever to actively helping Palestinians and Israelis to restore confidence and achieve lasting peace before it is too late.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-9	Mr President, I would like to I thank Isabella Lövin for the answer. I have raised this issue on a number of occasions because I think it is important to draw attention to the way in which the Palestinian Authority and Fatah, which is also the sister party of the Social Democrats, are spreading anti-Semitic and anti-Israeli propaganda. The Palestinian Authority disseminates this propaganda through its media channels as well as through education in schools. Jews are described in a hateful and anti-Semitic way, while Palestinian terrorists are hailed as heroes and role models. I will mention some examples later. Representatives of Fatah and the Palestinian Authority regularly pay tribute to the terrorist attacks on Israel, and the Palestinian Authority names streets, squares, schools and sports tournaments in the honour of terrorists. Indirectly, the Palestinian Authority finances terrorism by paying salaries to convicted and released Palestinian terrorists. This kind of incitement to violence is the main cause of the recent wave of terror in Israel, where many of the perpetrators are very young. In addition, many terrorists have mentioned the incitement to violence as the reason they committed the terrorist attacks, either in interrogation after the attacks or in interventions on social media prior to the attacks. Anti-Semitic statements and incitement to violence by Palestinian leaders are documented, among other things, by Palestinian Media Watch. There, unfortunately, new examples of such statements can be found every day. A major obstacle to a future peace agreement is the constant rhetoric that portrays Jews and Israelis as inhumane and deserving only of extinction. Since Sweden is one of the largest aid countries to Palestine, we have a great influence, if we want to, to promote peace. Aid to Palestine should therefore be conditional upon the Palestinian Authority ceasing to spread anti-Semitic propaganda, stop praising terrorists and stop inciting violence. I would therefore like to add to the questions I have already put to the Minister for Development and ask some specific questions. Is the Minister for Development prepared, on the one hand, to clearly condemn the Palestinian Authority's anti-Semitic propaganda, incitement to violence and education with hate-filled elements, and, on the other hand, to make Sweden's aid to the Palestinian Authority conditional in such a way that this propaganda must stop before the Authority can receive further assistance from Sweden? An example of this kind of propaganda is from Jibril Rajoub, who is the Deputy Secretary General of the Fatah Central Committee and Chairman of their Ministry of Sports and Chairman of the Football Federation of the Palestinian Authority. He said on 2 January this year: 17 martyrs – among them were some who murdered Israelis – were buried yesterday. This is, of course, a source of pride for all of us. I say that whoever does these acts of heroism we in Fatah will encourage and bless. We see them as a crown on the head of every Palestinian. This was thus said in the official Palestinian television on 2 January this year. In this connection, he also said: we in the Fatah Central Committee have discussed this and we support this activity. What does the Minister for Development say specifically about the questions I have asked?
i-8061bf4801e5432f-22	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by emphasising that the Palestinian Authority is absolutely crucial for community-building, for delivering civic services and reducing the risk of destabilisation in Palestine and reducing the risk of giving increased influence to anti-Israeli forces. This is the only opportunity we have to invest in long-term stability. That the Palestinian Authority has a security cooperation with Israel, I hope Mikael Oscarsson knows. The Stateability of the Palestinian Authority was reconfirmed in New York last September when the largest donors met – the UN, the EU, the World Bank, the IMF, the US and Sweden. It stressed the importance of continuing and increasing support to the Palestinian Authority. Then it is that you can come up with many quotes. I think it is important to also point out quotes from Palestinian President Abbas, who continuously rejects violence. There are quotations from the end of January where Abbas once again says that they should have a peaceful national creation. He rejects the use of weapons and all kinds of bombs and says that those who use them should be arrested. He also stresses that he does not want to be squeezed into a military or military battle. This is very important and, of course, we conduct this dialogue with the Palestinian Authority all the time. It is also important to clarify what kind of relationship we have through aid. We have support for the Palestinian people, that is to say for the people who are currently living under illegal occupation. They are in an extremely desperate situation in which, due to the isolation and blocking of economic trade, they are simply dependent on external aid to survive. They have an extremely high youth unemployment rate, and part of the Swedish aid strategy is about creating economic opportunities and employment for women and young people. We are doing this in order to conjure up hope in Palestinians so that they do not take up arms and do not become desperate enough to join the armed struggle we are totally rejecting. We also see the water problem, which is absolutely devastating. 90% of all waters in Gaza are unfit. Does Mikael Oscarsson mean that we should make our aid conditional and not help these people? Should the aid community and donors withdraw the only hope that Palestinians have of continuing peaceful development and strengthening peaceful and legally secure institutions, which is needed in order to conduct peace talks with Israel and find a lasting two-state solution?
i-8061bf4801e5432f-29	Mr President, I would like to I note that, unfortunately, I have not received an answer to the question as to whether the government is prepared to raise the 25 schools which are currently named after terrorists, i.e. that they should change their names, and demand compensation. I understand that this is, of course, not something that can be done in one day. But it is very natural, the Minister for Development, to deal with leadership if we are involved in financing and supporting the people who need it. You have to. If these statements come, it is unacceptable, and then they must be told that it is wrong and that it cannot continue if they are to receive support from Sweden. I would also like to comment on this with Mahmoud Abbas. On 16 November last year he said the following in the official Palestinian TV channel: That is what this is. He said this in connection with the fact that the Palestinians had carried out 8 shooting attacks, 8 car strikes and 65 knife attacks. A total of 14 Israelis had been murdered, and 167 had been injured. So I do not think that this is consistent, and it is a problem that there are different language usages in different contexts. After the debate, I will actually hand over examples of such statements – even more than I can deal with in this interpellation debate. For example, I have in front of me things from Fatah's official Facebook and Twitter accounts. It's one picture after the other where you celebrate with knives-- you say... So what? And then it's a knife, you make victory signs with a knife and you show a knife in a Jew. It is said that the knife is a symbol of love for Jerusalem. There are also other occasions; for example, in January of this year, Fatah celebrated his 51st anniversary, a parade in Betlehem where children walked around in suicide belts. They also went with knives and rifles – all to celebrate this culture. Everything comes down to the fact that we have to see this with open eyes. So it becomes particularly problematic that this is something that is aimed at young people. So the words I read earlier come from the leader of Palestine's equivalent to the Football League, where the initiative has been taken to name one major football tournament after another after suicide bombers. Isabella Lövin says that after Sweden's approval of the Palestine as a state, you have had the opportunity to cooperate more deeply. Then I would like to ask specifically whether these events are something that has been raised. What concrete criticism has the government made on the occasions Lövin points out?
i-8061bf4801e5432f-35	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Mikael Oscarsson that the government is engaged in a continuous dialogue with the Palestinian Authority and that we are addressing worrying statements that may contribute to the sedition or escalation of violence. I've done it myself. So there is no doubt whatsoever about it. With regard to the education system and the accusations of incitement to teaching materials and other things, this is something that the UN regularly follows up. Sometimes you find that true and sometimes not. It is, therefore, also something that is, of course, in the spotlight of the international donor community. As we are talking about schools, I was going to mention a recent story from a retired folk high school teacher, Marianne Claesson from Equmenia Church. She is now in place as an ecumenical companion in a village between Jeriko and Taibe, where several Beduklans have now been crowded. In the past they have been able to walk with their flocks of sheep between different pastures depending on the seasons, but now the Bedouins are completely locked up between Israeli settlements and military posts. Women and children are affected in such a way that they become constricted, and the rules and violence are increasing in the families. The school where the girls could go earlier and have their world view widened is now under threat – Israel has decided to tear down the school, and then the children lose their schooling. The trees Marianne Claesson testifies to are planted in front of preschool will also be destroyed by bulldozers. This is the reality of this violence and this rhetoric is born in. We must be very clear about that. I would also like to say that during the eight years of the Alliance, Sweden channelled hundreds of millions of dollars to the Palestinian Authority. I think it's strange that Mikael Oscarsson doesn't bring it up. This was done despite the shortcomings and despite the need for continued reform and improvements that have been in place all along. However, it is true that we work for accountability also through our assistance. The absolute lion's share of aid is given to civil society organisations, the UN and others who are actually working to strengthen accountability towards the government. We do that in all the countries we work in--it's not something we do specifically here-- but it's important to emphasise. I am very concerned that we are going to stand like this in the Swedish Parliament and further fuel the fire and polarise this debate, that we are going to import an infected and blood-breathing rhetoric that we absolutely do not need to engage in when it comes to development policy. We will support people who have needs in emergency situations. We will also work and build long-term peace, and we will do so by giving people confidence in the future, by strengthening water supply, infrastructure and economic development. It's the only way to stop a bloody end to this conflict.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-43	Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by reiterating what the chairman of the sports federation and the football federation are saying. He says: These individuals' actions are heroism, and I am proud of them. I congratulate everyone who has carried them out. I say to you, we are proud of you. Whoever is confronted, fighting, dying as a martyr or being imprisoned, his identity is known. What I mean is that this struggle, this imprisonment and martyrdom are doing the Palestinian people a favor. That is why I was a little surprised by the last intervention by the Minister for Development, in which she says that she is concerned about this debate. It would be a mistake for me as a parliamentarian not to mention this because we support it. One thing would be if Isabella stood with the gun outside Åhléns and collected money, but here it is the Swedish people's tax money that is being used. Then we must see that this is a propaganda that exists. We know, Isabella Lövin, that in the peace process in Northern Ireland, for example, it was necessary to remove the hate propaganda in order to get somewhere. I have only taken a few examples. What is going on is sad and regrettable. It has been going on for a long time, but it has increased since the knife attacks started last autumn. The Alliance government also has a debt in this. But the sedition of using a knife and killing civilian Israelis is something that has started in the last six months. That is why the Minister for Development must make this clear. I have still not heard a clear rejection of this action. I hope that will come in the last speech and, above all, to the Palestinian Authority, because then we can make demands.
i-8eHPVJLZijH6oTcgxp9vTA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson! It is remarkable that Mikael Oscarsson also thinks that the policy of the alliance government has been wrong in this area. This makes Mikael Oscarsson very isolated in his opinion that we should withdraw the aid to the people who most need it, even though it is complicated situations. The summer of 2014 was the most devastating war since the occupation began in 1967 in Gasa. Over 2,100 Palestinians were killed, the majority of which were civilians and 500 children among them. Since 1 January this year, Israel has demolished 284 humanitarian structures in Area C, 45% of which are EU-funded aid projects. Now, if we're gonna stand here and point fingers, maybe we should point fingers in both directions. I think it is important that we have a balanced tone here in Sweden when we discuss these issues. This is, as everyone knows, a very infected conflict. Of course, the Swedish government rejects terrorist acts but also illegal occupation. We must now ensure that the conditions for peace are created, and we do not do so by raising the tone to these levels in Swedish debate. I think we should see how we can strengthen the peace process, and we must instill hope in the Palestinian people and not least in the young people. Then we cannot stand on one side and condemn acts of violence, and we know that President Abbas has also condemned and constantly condemns the acts of violence. We are in dialogue with both sides about not using violence.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-52	Mr President, I would like to Göran Lindell has asked me three questions. He wonders what measures I intend to take to improve the situation of those who have now been rejected on their applications, what measures I intend to take to ensure that the regulatory framework for the allocation of funds is working properly and, finally, what measures I intend to take to speed up the roll-out of broadband in the country. It is positive that there is a strong demand for the SEK 3.25 billion that the government has invested in broadband expansion within the framework of the rural programme in rural and rural areas. It is important that the actual expansion can now get started. Current funding for broadband roll-out under the rural development programme is a doubling compared to that allocated during the previous programming period. The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for the implementation of the rural development programme and is in charge of the speed at which funds can be allocated to the county administrative boards. During the current programming period up to 2020, there is a strong focus on EU aid generating results and impact, which are parameters that the National Agriculture Agency must relate to, among other things.
i-E7DwRuRUZk94He1ZaYiyaE	The Government has submitted a bill to the Riksdag aimed at making it cheaper to build broadband, for example through increased coordination of digging projects. The Government proposal proposes that a law on measures for the roll-out of broadband networks should enter into force on 1 July 2016. The Government has also decided on regional broadband coordinators that will operate in the counties and create the conditions for the expansion of both fixed and mobile broadband within their county, but also for cross-border collaboration on expansion. The investment for 2016 is SEK 21 million, i.e. SEK 6 million more than in 2015. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to provide a broadband school. The training will be used for broadband coordinators and other public actors to disseminate relevant knowledge that can improve the conditions for and facilitate the deployment of the broadband market. The investigator Åsa Torstensson has in a recent report, Statens broadband infrastructure as a resource, analysed how the state's broadband infrastructure can be streamlined in order to facilitate broadband roll-out. The report is on the table until mid-May. The government will then take a position on the proposals made by the investigation. The current broadband strategy was decided in 2009 and the targets were formulated with a view to 2020. It is important, as the Government states in the 2016 Budget Bill, to ensure that the broadband strategy continues to be relevant and forward-looking. The government does this by giving Bredbandsforum an extended mandate until 2020. The Government considers it important to ensure that the conditions for rapid roll-out of broadband, fixed and mobile, continue to be favourable, even after 2020. Therefore, the government continues its efforts to develop broadband policy. The work to specify the orientation of broadband policy was initiated in connection with the meeting of the Bredbandsforum steering group 2015 and is expected to be completed during the year.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-61	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Kaplan for his reply. I know, of course, that I do not have reason to expect a precise commitment to finance and finance, because it is on the table of another minister. But I had hoped for something a little more useful about the problem I try to describe in my interpellation and that I get emails and contacts about soon said every day. The expansion of high-capacity internet access in the country, what we call broadband, is largely market-driven and competitive. It's both good and important. What we are talking about today is the one who lives where the market, so to speak, is not able to cope with, or in other words, where the expansion of fibre becomes so expensive per subscriber that the expansion does not take place without the involvement of society. Then we need to find solutions where all parties work together. With the form that is usually called byalags solution, it has become possible to find concepts where we, with state support, allow an association, often with great non-profit involvement, to procure and implement a fiber expansion within its geographical area. Sometimes others, not least municipal network companies, have also played an important role in these solutions. In common, the affected residents join forces and do an important part of the job themselves to get broadband, with the help of government grants. I'm sorry I see this thing about expanding fiber across the country as a bit of a center party baby. But this was built up when we were responsible in the government for these issues, and I am perhaps particularly concerned for that reason. Minister Kaplan mentions in his reply that it is the National Agricultural Agency that is responsible for the money allocated, and I know that. But the frustration is the fact that we already know that the challenge is so much greater. Although detailed knowledge is not available at present, we know that the applications for funds made in the first round have far exceeded the funds available. Then we are talking about the funds available to the Swedish Board of Agriculture until 2020. You could say we should wait and see, but I don't think that's enough. I am not asking Minister Kaplan to pledge new billions at standing tables, but I think it is extremely important that a will expression of how the government intends to deal with the situation comes relatively soon. It would be extremely serious for the confidence of the future in rural areas if money and hopes were now blown away in a large part of the associations that worked long and non-profit to do everything right in the face of what is commonly called the Great Beauty Competition – not to mention other associations that have waited for future calls for proposals because they did not feel fully ready with their application and who are now told that the money is up by 2020. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to know something more than what the Minister has just said about how he views the further expansion of fibre in rural areas.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-70	Mr President, I would like to I thank Göran Lindell for raising this issue, which is important both for the city and for the countryside. However, broadband expansion is of the nature that we have a fairly good expansion in the cities, and therefore it is good that Göran Lindell lifts up the part that is a little harder to get to and that is why the government is making this effort. Let us look back on the last few years to see how we are in Sweden when it comes to broadband expansion. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, which is the expert authority we have to rely on, does broadband mapping. The latest survey shows that 61 per cent of households and businesses have access to broadband at a speed of 100 megabits per second. It is a broadband high-speed if works relatively well for most intended purposes. 75% have access to 30 megabits per second, which the EU has set as its goal for everyone to have by 2020. Furthermore, we know that 99% of the population have access to broadband via the 4G network, or LTE as it is also called, where they live and work. All would be peace and joy if it meant that this 99 percent had access to at least 40 to 50 megabits per second. But both Göran Lindell and I know that this is not the case. This is not because of this government or the former, but because the expansion has lasted for a long number of years in those parts of the country where there are problems with connection via the 4G network as soon as you move outside the urban area. In this way, access to high-speed broadband is unevenly distributed across the country and varies between more densely populated areas and sparsely populated and rural areas. We need to face this with a better expansion, and that is what the government does through the rural programme. SEK 3.25 billion will go to those areas where it will not otherwise be expanded because the market players will not get a return on their investments there. That is why this money has been able to come about at all, because EU state aid rules restrict the possibility for individual Member States to interfere where the market would otherwise have expanded. It is a system that I know Göran Lindell's party has been behind, and the former IT minister worked within the framework of it. I don't know if the Center Party and Göran Lindell have changed their minds. But as it sounds at Göran Lindell, I think we agree that the market should expand as far as possible, but where it does not, the state should go in with support. This state aid has been approved by the Commission. In addition to this money, there are SEK 1.2 billion in the northern regional fund programmes. It is money that goes to community-based networks, which is at least as important as broadband support in the rural development programme. So to the second part that Göran Lindell lifts up. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has reportedly allocated approximately two thirds of the 3.25 billion to the county administrative boards. About a third, about 1.2 billion, has been withheld in order to await something with the distribution of the last third.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-81	Mr President, I would like to In principle, I have nothing against the description given by Minister Kaplan of the situation. As I said, I am well aware of it, because we worked intensively on these issues during the last parliamentary term. All of this is due to the fact that we can see that we need the roll-out of both mobile broadband and fibre connections to households and companies throughout our country at the fastest possible rate. The problem is that the regulatory framework we have created has led to a very strange and worrying situation, and that is, among other things, what I am trying to put my finger on. I have met many troubled and disappointed associations. I met someone who had done everything right. They had even in advance for their own money and with the County Administrative Board's good memory dug down hose and then could expand fibre in connection with the electricity company's expansion. Yet they were turned down on their application and are now standing there with empty pipes and wasted money. I met another association who had learned that although they had gathered all the residents in the white spot between extended areas, there were not enough to fit in with the beauty contest, with the rules that came up on the slope. Their situation was completely impossible when it came to getting help to expand broadband. Of course, I do not ask for a detailed answer on how to resolve this. I would just like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that the current situation is extremely difficult and frustrating for many of the country's associations. The development of how much broadband access households and businesses need has gone very fast over a period of years, and we have often underestimated this development. During the previous term of office, which I can review reasonably, the government had to change its ambitions time and again in different ways. Afterwards, I can admit that it wasn't without the Center Party having to fight pretty hard for it sometimes. I would like more signals that we agree that we must continue to find ways of changing the possibility of supporting this development. As the Minister mentioned, some money has indeed been withheld, and it would be good if it were not because, in the first round, applications were made for twice as much money as has been allocated. We know that. That is why I say that we know that, among those who have applied today, the EUR 3.25 billion is still in the round to about two thirds of what would be needed. That is where the problem lies.
i-ABYnv4kTyCNRjcHAZFWk4g	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Göran Lindell! This is indeed an issue where the government shares the type of entrances and the level of ambition that the Center Party has shown in the past and is still demonstrating. I have therefore worked on much of what the old government was working on in this area. I know of the internal struggle that is constantly based on money bags to be distributed correctly. In this case, the EU is interfering in what kind of aid can be paid out. It is then important to know how the broadband money in the rural programme is managed. It is possible that this is not widely known – Göran Lindell will know about it – but when the applications are handled and the county boards can start making decisions, it is important to know when we know that the money will not be enough. There are a number of applications, and they are being processed. The amount of applications is not a guarantee that it will be exactly the applications that are granted. There are clear criteria for which types of projects will be supported. It is not the government and thankfully not an individual minister who assesses which projects will be supported, but an independent authority. In this case, it is the Board of Agriculture that is the managing authority that controls the rate at which funds can be allocated to the county boards and also determines the amount of money that each project will receive. We are, of course, constantly following information on the issue of broadband support. We know that this is basically a major expansion change in which the players in recent years have not only met the demand that exists, but even exceeded it. That is why our independent authorities assess that we will be able to expand at the pace we want. But the development is even faster, and I agree with Göran Lindell that it needs to be changed up. There we have the same vision and goal: Sweden should be the best in the world to seize the opportunities of digitalisation so that our entrepreneurs and individuals can feel confident that they, wherever they are and wherever they choose to start a business, can have access to world-class broadband infrastructure. The methods, that is, the very ways in which this is to be done, vary in different parts of the country. It should be added that Sweden is the third best in the world on fibering, i.e. to have fiber wideband. There we are far behind the first two but far ahead of those who come after us. This is something that should further trigger politicians, not only in the Center Party and the government, but many others, to follow up on this and take it seriously. We are now creating an infrastructure that is at least as important as electricity or even the roads were when the countryside and sparsely populated areas got them. Today, broadband infrastructure and internet connectivity are a hygiene factor. It must be in place to keep in touch with loved ones, carry out banking matters and simply live your life and run businesses. The jobs created should be able to be linked to something national good. That's what we stand for.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-99	Mr President, I would like to It is beautiful to have the overall common objectives. It is a good thing to follow up, but I hope I was clear when I pointed out that I think it is going much further, not least in the situation that has been created and that we find ourselves in today. If I am properly informed, both our parties have a heart that claps especially for the non-profit power and the non-profit sector in society. We have really got them back on their feet in many parts of the country, either ourselves or together with the municipal network companies. Today they feel extremely extradited. Finally, I would like to touch on another aspect that does not reduce the problem, quite the contrary. In several parts of the country, Telia has now announced that it intends to dismantle its fixed networks and offer wireless connections for telephony and broadband. Although mobile networks are constantly being developed, the negative consequences for many in the affected areas are considerable. In order to sort out the situation in the country, municipalities and the county boards concerned have often tried to redirect the expansion of fibre towards these areas, which in turn means that those areas that had previously had the worst situation may have to wait even longer for their broadband access. I know that the government cannot control Telia, which is a listed company, but I can note that during the last term of office it was possible to reach agreements with Telia in their then plans in this area. Then they promised to exclude stations with so-called ADSL. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank Minister Kaplan for an interesting debate. Even if I leave Parliament in a few weeks' time, it concerns an area that I will follow with great interest and which will be the focus of the Center Party in the future – I can assure you that.
i-5iJqEGBzJrvkp6XpfPSAkk	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Göran Lindell! I did not know of the fact that Göran Lindell, who is one of the most experienced MPs and has done an extremely good job within these walls and under this roof, will leave us. I wish him good luck in the work and work he will probably do. I've done some research before, and Göran Lindell is not the kind of person who just sits still. I'm sure there'll be some very good things coming from him in the future too. I would like to highlight the last thing Göran Lindell said about what it is really about, namely the copper network. In the long term, large parts of the copper network need to be replaced for capacity reasons, as it has a technical limitation. Although this limitation has, so to speak, become more spacious and spacious, it is a fact that we have reached a sort of far-off limit to what it can do. Furthermore, parts of the old copper network no longer live up to the current need for operational safety. It is therefore not only a problem of capacity, but also a problem of operational safety. For me and the government, it is important that Sweden continues to strive to have world-class broadband. At the same time, it means that we must be prepared to follow technological developments. As far as the assessment made by Telia Sonera is concerned, it is, as Göran Lindell pointed out, a state-owned company, and the governance takes place according to the description contained in the government's ownership policy. It is important that the technology shift that Telia Sonera is in the middle of is handled in such a way that replacement solutions for both fixed telephony and broadband connections can take place via mobile networks, Telia Sonera's own or other operators'. That, of course, is something that we are following closely. Thank you for a very interesting and important debate, Göran Lindell, and good luck!
i-SanpJ8ZvyVyTQXXnbXNM6c	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. Welcome, listeners! Bengt Eliasson has asked me what work is being done in the Ministry in connection with the Riksdag's announcement calling for an investigation of the radio and television fee in good time for the next broadcasting permit in 2020. Furthermore, Eliasson asks whether I will meet Parliament's requests for a broad parliamentary inquiry and the timetable for the work. I fully share Bengt Eliasson's description of the importance of finding a sustainable and solidarity-based financing model that guarantees independence and impartiality for public service. Public broadcasting is an important building block in a democratic and open society. I will therefore work to ensure that public service funding remains stable and predictable and, at the same time, takes place in a way that is perceived as fair and reasonable. In order to safeguard independence and independence, it is important that public service broadcasters are not constantly under political scrutiny and investigation. The current broadcasting authorisations have been in force for two years, and there are four years left of the authorisation period. At the end of the authorisation period, there will be a comprehensive political review of the companies' mandates. The study of the financing system should be set up and designed to complement this work in a well-thought-out way. I will come back with information on the timetable for the work. It is gratifying that there is broad political agreement on the basic principles for financing the activities of public service broadcasters. My starting point is that the upcoming investigation will be based on Parliament's wishes for a cross-block and parliamentary investigation.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-114	Mr President, I would like to This is a rather interesting debate to raise, because it will be a fundamental debate and a substantive debate at the same time. For the sake of clarity, I would like to read out what it says in the report that was approved. – – – The aim of the work is to develop a jointly funded and long-term safe model that guarantees the continued independence of public services. The investigation should be cross-border and parliamentary. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to What SVT, Swedish Radio and Education Radio do is public service. Or as they and several of us say: It is television, radio and web for everyone, an important part of the construction of democracy. The activities are conducted and shall be conducted independently in relation to political, commercial and other interests. Public service simply means that the programs are made only with regard to those who watch, listen and read – nothing else. It's important and of course, it might seem. As the Minister for Culture says, we are in complete agreement on this. There are no differences or problems. We also agree on the concepts of long-term sustainability in terms of the conditions of the mission, but also in terms of funding. If you put it, we are in complete agreement. Then you can think about why we're standing here. What seems to be an almost total unity begins to creak a little when you see what is happening or not happening. In the answer, the Minister says: ..................................................... I agree with that. That there should be a mid-term reconciliation of the broadcasting permit is given. It should be six months or a year left, so it should be in the autumn or so. But then there is the report on funding, based on the unanimous decisions of this House. It can be seen as a review or investigation of the public service broadcasters. But it's not. That is not what we are talking about, that is not what the announcement is about, and that is not what the interpellation is about either. The issue is the investigation of the radio and television fee, which primarily concerns the fee structure – who should pay and how it should be paid. It is thus an investigation concerning Radiotjänst i Kiruna, the collection structure and so on – nothing else. This is not about the practice of public service broadcasters, which we are conducting in a completely different order. This is important to make clear in the debate. I have been very good myself and helped to confuse the concepts. The Minister's reply suggests that it is not at the height of the mid-term review that it intends to fulfil its duty to the Riksdag in relation to its announcement but in the development of the conditions for a new permit period at the end of the current period. I must ask the Minister for a definition of the concept of good time. How will the entity that will eventually manage the collection be able to plan its operations and manage all the parts when the investigation starts very late? What is a good time in the minister's world?
i-8061bf4801e5432f-123	Mr President, I would like to The independence of public services, television and public broadcasting, is central to our democracy. In every situation, I and the government will safeguard independence and safeguard long-term, stable and predictable conditions for public service. I am pleased that Eliasson is so clearly publishing the text and spreading the words around what we agree on – it bodes well for the future. I would also like to be very clear – if my first answer did not provide that security: I intend to fully discharge my duties in accordance with Parliament's announcement. I want Eliasson and this whole congregation to be completely safe with that. I have no other intention. I think that Parliament's announcement provides a good summary of the direction that a future investigation should take, namely that a future financing model should ensure the independence of public service broadcasters and be based on solidarity payments. Added to this are long-term and stable conditions. So to this in time: The Parliament has asked the government to investigate the financing in good time and before the next broadcasting permit. In this part, too, I intend to meet Parliament's wishes – that is a matter of course and a duty to me. However, the government has not yet decided exactly when the committee will start working. I would also like to comment on what Eliasson quoted about avoiding the public service companies constantly being nailed. The importance of public service independence can be stressed. I know that this is something that Eliasson, along with me and many other Members of Parliament, repeats. But what does that mean, and how do you secure independence? How to build a strong foundation for independence? With regard to public service broadcasting: if there is a constant questioning of their activities, how they are to be financed and how they are to work, there is an imminent risk that public service representatives will be able to defend their activities at all times. I would like to state with determination that public services need peace in order to carry out their honorable mission. Now that we are laying out various investigations, based on the announcement and what is included in the existing broadcasting permit, it is important that we lay out a carpet that is clear and that the different parts are based on each other and can benefit us all and the Riksdag, when we subsequently enter into intensive work with a new broadcasting permit. It is still time to review the financing system during the current authorisation period. In any case, I will respond to Parliament's announcement.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-131	Mr President, I would like to We are in complete agreement on safeguarding the independence and functioning of the public service companies, independent of us and many other interests. But now we are debating funding and not so much public service content or function. I note that, in his first reply, the Minister says that at the end of the authorisation period there will be a comprehensive political scrutiny and that there will be a further investigation of the financing. There is clearly a difference here in the definition of what is in good time. Another issue, which is actually broader and perhaps also underlying in this debate, and the Minister has also touched on it, is the announcement. Interpellation is set to move the issue forward and is not so much about the issue itself. We will certainly stand in these seats and debate the substantive part many times in the future. But we need to put it aside right now to get to the point where we can start discussing the question of how funding is actually going to be done. One of the important issues is that an investigation should be set up in good time. Another is the minister's, and by all means the government's, because virtually everyone in the government is involved, relative to the announcement, the interpretation of how they are written and where they land somewhere. As the Minister has said, the Parliament has decided on the framework. It includes words such as jointly funded, long-term security, independence, inter alia cross-border and so on. There is also an assumed timetable, that is to say, the concept and interpretation of it. Mr President, I would like to I think it would be good if the Minister could describe how the talks on announcements sound between the government colleges – whether it is about fulfilling them in due course, when you feel it yourself or whether it is in relation to this House's decision. The issues are quite numerous, and the expectations of members of my party at various levels and from voters and citizens are rightly high in terms of what we are achieving and how we can describe what decision we have taken. I am curious as to how the Minister relates to this. What does a parliamentary decision mean and what does an announcement in the discussion between the members of the government and the minister's department mean?
i-8061bf4801e5432f-139	Mr President, I would like to All power emanates from the people. The Parliament's decision is, of course, governing and leading. It would never help me or the rest of the government not to respect Parliament's decisions. In doing so, I would also like to stress the importance of the announcements and what they actually mean, what responsibility we have and what context we need to put them in. Of course, it is also extremely important that I, as Minister for Democracy and Culture, ensure that my policy and public service, which have such a clear democratic role in our society, are handled with a great responsibility. This means that when I have announcements to comply with, as I obviously intend to do, along with a series of other investigations that already exist in existing broadcasting permits, I need to put the puzzle so that it works and so that the parts are based on each other. We should know that investigations are not free of charge. They cost taxpayers money. This should therefore be handled with knowledge and caution so that we get the very best and most out of each investigation. I would really like to emphasise this in the context that we are talking about right now. This is still in good time. I see the benefits of meeting the Riksdag. I want this investigated. It will provide us with the basis for the forthcoming broadcasting permit. But I would also like to emphasise the responsibility we have, not least in these times, to safeguard the ability of public services to work. I know that we have been inside several times, Member of Parliament Eliasson and I, that we are safeguarding the independence of public services. At the same time, we should know that strong winds are blowing in our neighbouring countries across the Baltic Sea. We see how media freedom is constantly being discussed and restricted by good will. I listened to a number of speeches and speeches from the Polish Parliament, and it was politicians like Eliasson and I who spoke for the good cause but did so with serious restrictions on what we are now standing here saying we should defend. To also take responsibility for what we do and when we do it and to ensure that taxpayers and our employees get the most and the best is important, and that responsibility is mine and the government. I would also like to say some clarification about the financing model. It has worked well for many years, and we have a very impressive willingness to pay in our country. It's still high. It has fallen slightly since the Supreme Court decided that the current legislation does not cover computers. Nevertheless, more households than ever paid the fee in 2013 than in 2014. Now we have just got the final result for 2015. As expected, it's a decline. There are slightly fewer households paying the fee than Rikab had expected, but at the same time – and this is uplifting – more people pay than in 2012. This is a development that I follow closely and of course take with me when I'm going to handle and respect Parliament's announcement and throughout the continued work on safeguarding public services independence.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-147	Mr President, I would like to Once again, the Minister for Culture, thank you for a comprehensive answer. As far as the restrictions on democracy are concerned, I am very concerned by the same debate in this House from time to time. We see in our surrounding world horror examples of what is happening right now. To use the winged words of another minister, I can say concerning the willingness to pay that the system has served us well. We agree on that. But it is reaching the end of the road and needs to be reworked. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to slip into the subject matter of the announcement. As the Minister has said, much is common in view of this, but for us liberals it is important that funding should be technology independent, and it is not today. It will protect the public service media from short-term political decisions. It is doubtful whether today's system does so when it looks like it does. This is Parliament's opinion and obviously the Minister's opinion, which is why it is important that we now step up and actually develop a new and long-term system that protects all the good values that we stand for together. In this important area, the concept of independence is central. It is of the utmost importance that we really get a fee and not a tax. This is what we're gonna get back to. We Liberals believe that this investigation should be set up as a matter of urgency – I believe that this is Parliament's opinion – out of respect for Parliament's decisions and for the instruments of the highest decision-making bodies in the country. So, Mr President, we are now awaiting the efforts of the Minister for Culture in this area. I would like to thank you for a good debate. We will meet again on this matter, both in form and in time.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-154	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the interpellation, for the question in it and for the discussion! As the honourable Member concluded, I hope that we will continue to discuss the possibilities and independence of public services and that together we democrats will resist the dark forces that exist in this House too and have been clear that they want to restrict public services' ability to operate. I would like to say that independent radio and television have never been more important. It has never been more important for our public service to have a long-term opportunity to review the power – to review me, to review the government, to review Member of Parliament Eliasson and this entire House. It has never been more important, so we have a large and delicate task ahead of us as we deal with the issues that, among other things, technology has meant that we need to deal with. We need to look at how we ensure long-term independence. We do not know what the future holds, and we do not know what the outcome of the next general election 2018 will mean and who will gain power then. There are great foundations that need to be cast that we can then build on. Again, thank you for this discussion! I look forward to good parliamentary work on this issue.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-158	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stenergard has asked me how I intend to evaluate the impact of temporary aid on the municipalities, how I see the distribution key taking greater account of the urgency of the situation than of the longer-term consequences and how it is that the allocation for some of the municipalities has changed in a not insignificant way compared with the provisional distribution declared by the government. The temporary support is one of the necessary efforts that the government parties, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats agreed last autumn to secure the ability of the Swedish reception of asylum seekers and strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. In order to deal with the current refugee situation and reduce the pressure on the municipal economy, the parties agreed to provide one-off funds to the municipalities and county councils. The parties also agreed that the aid should be allocated taking into account the size of the number of asylum seekers and the reception of new arrivals, while taking into account the distribution between the number of adults and the number of children. The support is generally not aimed at specific activities, which gives municipalities and county councils a great deal of freedom to design their own activities based on the needs of their citizens. However, I have noted that most of the municipalities consulted by the media on how they will use the funds have indicated that they will allocate additional resources to school and social services. I assume that the municipalities and county councils will use the support to solve the refugee situation in the best way possible. Strengthening trust in state-municipal cooperation is something we all benefit from. It is thus up to each municipality and county council to decide how the funds should be distributed between 2015 and 2016 based on the conditions prevailing locally. At the same time, of course, the consequences must also be taken into account in the longer term. An assessment of the municipal sector's overall resource needs is made annually prior to the budget bill. Differences in resource needs between individual municipalities and county councils are captured through the system of municipal economic equalisation. A preliminary estimate of amounts per municipality and county council, prepared by the Government Office, was presented in connection with the presentation of the draft amending budget. Since the government decided the present bill just three weeks after the agreement between the government parties, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats was completed, the calculations were made under great time pressure. The quality assurance of the data submitted subsequently in the light of the Government's decision to allocate resulted in adjustments to the amounts compared to the preliminary amounts previously reported.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-162	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The background to the interpellation is that the government and the alliance parties reached an agreement on migration in the autumn. It included a contribution to municipalities and county councils of nearly SEK 10 billion to be distributed according to certain overall principles that we agreed on. The extension was decided on the basis that the large reception of refugees had led to increased costs for municipalities. Last year we received 160 000 refugees, and in just two months of the autumn 80 000 people arrived in our country. It has, of course, been an enormous effort for municipalities with a great deal of reception. Several municipalities reported in the autumn that they were simply not able to do this. That is why this temporary addition was important, and I am glad that we agreed on it. It was a big addition. This is about 10 billion tax dollars. We must never forget, Mr President, that every crown of tax has been created by an effort. What builds our common well-being is hard work in people who go to work every day. Therefore, I think that those of us who have been entrusted with managing that money must also be very careful and thoughtful. We must be able to say that the municipalities need additional funding but at the same time dare to make demands. In this case, there has been no requirement for municipalities to submit accounts. But for future possible additions, that discussion is important, I think, and I hope that we can have it here today. It seems that at least S-communal councils around the municipalities expect additional supplements. For example, Heléne Fritzon, who runs Kristianstad, has said that annual compensations will be important in the future. I am not entirely sure that this is the right way to go, but if we were to decide on additional aid, we would have to evaluate the past? Surely we have to make sure that this is really the best way to strengthen municipalities in their integration efforts? I have therefore asked the Minister how it intends to assess the impact of this aid. This may mainly concern two aspects: firstly, evaluating how the municipalities have used the money to strengthen integration, and secondly, assessing whether the money has been distributed fairly between the municipalities. As far as the first part is concerned, how the money has been spent, it is, of course, as the Minister says – we must have a great deal of confidence in the municipalities. But, as I said, we must also respect taxpayers' money, and that is, of course, a balancing act. When Svenska Dagbladet asked the municipalities what they used the money for came from some municipalities answers such as that they went to ice skating facilities or that they didn't really know what to use them for and therefore put them in a reserve account for unforeseen events. It may still cause you to start thinking about whether the money is actually spent in an optimal way. The Minister calls it great freedom, and we can certainly agree with that, but should we not have some form of governance? Evaluation and quality assurance are important issues. I'm not saying it's easy to find a good model, but you have to try, right? I hope the government has that ambition. I would like to ask the government how you view the finances of municipalities in this part of the future. Does the Minister agree with the said Social Democratic Council that annual compensation for municipalities is required?
i-8061bf4801e5432f-168	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I did not intend to dwell primarily on the aid that has already been paid to municipalities and county councils in the light of the great reception of refugees, although, like Maria Stenergard, I can see that the way in which this billion-dollar aid has been managed is a clear example of the lack of long-term and planning which, to be honest, may have been too characteristic of the government policy that has been conducted so far and which also social democratic councillors around the country have expressed their frustration. But let us look to the future, Mr President. I would like to dwell briefly on the importance of ensuring that in the future, that is, as long as the current government remains, particularly in the light of Maria Malmer Stenergards's question of evaluation, we support in a sustainable manner those municipalities that take a great deal of responsibility in the reception of refugees, and also give priority to those municipalities that are actively working to combat dependency on benefits and have clear requirements and a clear line of work in their policy of supply support. Mr President, I would like to As a representative of Jönköping County, where all municipalities take a major responsibility in the refugee challenge, where they have a clear line of work in support of their livelihoods and where their own responsibility for improving their situation is very often highlighted, I must criticise a system that too much rewards mismanagement – if I may put it that way – social democratic municipalities such as Malmö and Gothenburg. I do not in any way deny the challenges of these municipalities, Mr President, but in the distribution model that has been applied to the specific municipal support, great importance has been attached to the expected costs for the municipalities in the short term. At the same time, as Maria Stenergard also states, it is so that in the longer term it may be other municipalities than those to which refugees first come who are affected by greater and more long-term cost increases, for example in the form of increased support for their livelihoods. Mr President, I would like to Once again, in the run-up to our future support for municipalities, we must establish principles that are based on the fact that we clearly reward those municipalities that are successfully and purposefully working with clear requirements and a clear line of work in the supply support, with short and effective planning processes in their housing construction and with a clear focus on integration and the focus on own responsibility. That is how it is, Mr President, and only in the way we get a society that stays together.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-173	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to thank Maria Stenergard and Mats Green for the interpellation and debate. This is an important issue that is not discussed very often in the Swedish parliament but which is very central to how we build a welfare that is of higher quality and that meets the challenges that we have in our society. Right now we are conducting a municipal dialogue around the country. Soon I have met all the municipalities in the country. One of the questions that I and the government ask municipal representatives is: Does this work? Does the structure of the municipal sector work? What changes do we need to make in order for municipalities to have the best possible conditions? The government's entry into this is that we must show greater trust in the local government sector than we have in recent years. The goal for the development of governance in the public sector is for the government to let professionals be professionals. It is a message that has been welcomed by most actors in the public sphere. It also imposes obligations on the local government sector. This means that we must have the courage to trust the model of administration we have in Sweden where the municipalities are responsible for the implementation of welfare policy. Parliament, the government and the authorities decide on laws and regulations and also contribute part of the funding. But the implementation itself is handled by the municipalities according to the rule of the municipal self-government and a decentralised welfare model. That model should be defended. It has served us well, and it has strengthened the legitimacy of public commitments. This has meant that welfare activities have been adapted to the local needs of each municipality and region. A development in which the state is increasingly regulating municipal activities in detail will not lead to greater efficiency. We have a justified criticism right now in the local government sector of the targeted state subsidies and the detailed regulation of the targeted state subsidies. Many of these state grants are also subject to high administrative requirements, which means that municipalities must apply or report afterwards at a detailed level. This results in some municipalities refraining from applying for some targeted state grants. This benefits those municipalities that are well placed to work with their administrative activities and have greater volume and disadvantage the smaller municipalities. The model we use here, and also in agreement with the bourgeois parties, is a model that we should use in more contexts. There we dare to trust the municipal sector and also dare to decentralise the decision-making power itself over how resources should be invested and used in municipal operations. Of course, it must be balanced against a proper evaluation of the municipal economy. We are currently working on developing a model for evaluating the economic development of individual municipalities in order to have a clear picture of this at the Ministry of Finance. However, I am sceptical about all the models in which we increase the detailed regulation on the part of the state, and the government is sceptical about this. We have just commissioned Statskontoret to evaluate and analyse some of the issues. I can come back to what we have in mind there.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-181	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I am pleased that the Minister thinks this is an important issue and that he takes the discussion seriously. I am also pleased that he emphasises the government's work on evaluation. As the Minister says, it is important that we do not over-regulate the work of municipalities. At the same time, there is the balance between the right use of taxpayers' money. What is perhaps the biggest issue here is how the distribution has taken place. The calculation of the distribution has been discussed in depth before with the Minister. The Government came before the Riksdag's decision with an indicative distribution of support. When the actual distribution has then been made, it can be observed that some municipalities have received just as much as was said but that other municipalities have received other amounts. For example, Kristianstad, Hässleholm and Bromölla in my own vicinity received about 200 000 SEK less than what was said in the preliminary distribution. This may seem a little bit, but for Bromölla we are talking about 20% less. The Minister has stated in his reply that the differences are due to the fact that the calculation has taken place under time pressure. Of course, I have some sympathy for that. But this too shows the need for evaluation for the future if we find ourselves in a similar situation again. Perhaps there are ways to strengthen the processes and the ability to review the government's information. The evaluation is also important. This applies not least to how we have chosen to distribute the money among the municipalities. We agree on the principles. I'm not saying it's easy. But a review is important at least to try to do the right thing in the future. Was the distribution reasonable? Could it perhaps be, as Mats Green was saying, that there are municipalities that take a heavy long-term responsibility but perhaps do not have a first reception in the municipality? Then perhaps it is they who would need reinforcement. It is important that we answer those questions. How does the government intend to follow up the decisions in concrete terms?
i-8061bf4801e5432f-186	Mr President, I would like to I would like to make a few comments about the kick I made to the Minister and a few comments. I, too, have respect for the time constraints that existed with regard to the formulation of aid in the light of the agreements on migration policy. However, it might have been possible to deal with this if we had come a little more prepared from the government to those very deliberations and perhaps even more had our own agenda instead of just being reactive all the time. It is, of course, important to trust our municipalities. I have served as municipal councillor and municipal council chairman in Jönköping municipality for ten years. I am also aware of the frustration that is often felt by municipal councillors when governments, regardless of their political colour, came up with a lot of pointers about how to use individual state subsidies. Having said that, it is nevertheless important to have a comprehensive financial system when it comes to supporting municipalities in the long term in the second wave of the refugee challenge. Principles that reward the municipalities that work in the long term with their own operations, have a clear line of work in the supply support and work actively with having efficient construction processes. I usually work a lot with housing policy. The housing challenge is perhaps the single largest societal challenge that Sweden has to deal with today. Once again, I would like to call for better planning conditions for municipalities but also for a long-term and sustainable strategy based on sound principles from the government. It is about how we will continue to be able to support all Swedish municipalities that take a great responsibility for the reception of refugees. They're my fellow ships again.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-190	Mr President, I would like to As I described earlier, the criteria for allocating temporary aid are agreed with the bourgeois parties. The difference in amounts between the provisional and final distribution is smaller and has arisen after the distribution has been quality assured. It is natural to have such a process when you have to make decisions of this kind in such an emergency situation as we had in the autumn. It is important to point out that we are not going back to such a situation. The Government's policy in the area of migration is about creating predictability, in so far as we can create predictability in migration policy. Then we must also ensure that the European Union takes greater responsibility. We are not going back to the situation we had in autumn 2015. We will guarantee all people seeking protection in Sweden a dignified reception. We were able to offer everyone a dignified reception during the fall. But it was a very big challenge, not least for the local government sector. I am convinced that without the efforts of civil society, it would have been even more difficult to deal with this situation and to offer asylum seekers an acceptable reception. Then the situation became acute, and there was a time pressure. This meant that after the quality assurance of the distribution mechanism, which was also agreed with the bourgeois parties, some adjustments were made. It can be observed that for most municipalities the changes were small. They must be set in relation to the total size of the aid. As regards the municipalities mentioned by Maria Malmer Stenergard in the interpellation, the support for Kristianstad Municipality was 0.3 per cent lower than the preliminary estimate. For Bromölla it was 1.7 per cent lower and for Hässleholm 0.2 per cent lower. The adjustments made in relation to the quality assurance of supporting documents were intended to ensure a uniform account of the number of unaccompanied minors. The statistics sometimes also include persons aged 18 or over in the number of unaccompanied minors. As unaccompanied minors were given the greatest weight in the calculation, even very small changes in the number of children could lead to a relatively large change in the amount for some municipalities. However, for most municipalities, 89 per cent or 258 municipalities, the change was within the range ± 2 per cent. The municipality with the largest increase in comparison between the preliminary and the decided aid was Gnesta. The figure was 8.9 percent, which was SEK 989 000. The municipality with the lowest reduction was Arjeplog by 8 per cent, equivalent to SEK 299 000. On the basis of the situation we had in the autumn, we still have to make the assessment that the government did what was necessary. The opposition also contributed to this process. The distribution mechanism, which we are discussing today, was the result of negotiations and a solution that we agreed, quite simply, between the government and the opposition. It is also worth mentioning that the Committee on Finance, when examining the proposal, was able to request additional information from the government on the matter, but it considered that no further information was needed. It was considered that the information provided by the government was sufficient.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-199	Mr President, I would like to Sweden ended up in an exceptional situation during the autumn. The municipalities were forced to conjure their knees. Social services, schools and other parts of the municipalities have taken enormous responsibility and demonstrated great capacity for action. The government here says through the Secretary of State that we are not going back to this situation, and I sincerely hope that we will not. At the same time, we are seeing a situation in which there are historically many who have crossed the Mediterranean today. We still have to deal with this in some way, and I think it is important that we evaluate the situation properly for the future. The municipalities needed financial reinforcement, and they got it. It's about $10 billion. We must not forget what a huge sum this is, and that is taxpayers' money. We have a great responsibility to ensure that they are used as efficiently as possible. That's why we need to evaluate. If we made a mistake, we're not gonna make the same mistake again. Did the money go to the right municipalities? Did you count it right? Were they used correctly? Should there have been clearer governance? We are all responsible for the decision that was taken, but I think it is the government's duty to find out the answer to these questions. It is the duty of the government to carry out a proper evaluation, and I hope it will. I thank you for the debate and take the opportunity to wish you a pleasant weekend.
i-8061bf4801e5432f-204	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree with Maria Stenergard that it is the government's responsibility to evaluate this. This applies to the finances of the local government sector and also to an evaluation of the government and central government's governance of the municipalities. We have started this work properly now; Statskontoret has been given a comprehensive assignment to analyse the impact of government governance. We have also announced that we will work with targeted state subsidies to reduce the administrative burden associated with these. We are conducting a dialogue with the local government sector on governance issues to simply ensure that we have effective governance that finds the right balance between the need for control and room for manoeuvre. With regard to the impact of the temporary grants to municipalities, we will analyse the state of the local economy ahead of the budget bill. We are working in parallel with this to build a mechanism at the Ministry of Finance where we analyse the municipal economy at the municipal level in order to also be able to do longer-term analyses and identify those municipalities that have major long-term challenges in terms of the economy. These are important questions. I would like to say that we probably need to intensify the discussion also in the Swedish parliament and look to a greater extent at the effects of the decisions we make in both the government and the parliament of the local government sector. This is, after all, where the activities are carried out, and the municipalities must have the best possible conditions. Many thanks for the debate and nice weekend!
