i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-10	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating changes with the implementation of the new Asylum Procedure Directive. I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report to be approved. This report shows a clear deficiency in the government's management of migration flows – this mainly because the government has overlooked several possibilities provided for in the Asylum Procedures Directive. There are a number of articles here that could provide the basis for a potentially clearer, more responsible and more sustainable system in the long term – a system that would save citizens the loss of well-being or a higher tax burden as a result of unmanageable immigration into Sweden. The Swedish Democrats see not least the possibility of introducing clearer obligations for asylum seekers and the establishment of lists of so-called safe countries at national level. We do not want to see a common European list. We also want to see more withdrawals of residence permits for persons who no longer need international protection. Mr President, I would like to Under the current Directive, Article 13, Sweden is required to impose obligations on asylum seekers to cooperate with all competent and relevant authorities in order to establish their own identity and other circumstances as referred to in Article 4(2) of Directive 2011/95/EU. The fact that people, including asylum seekers, have an obligation to prove their own identity is equally obvious to the vast majority of people. It is not at all impossible that one of the pull factors to get to Sweden in search of a better life – possibly a life on the run from justice – is strengthened by the fact that Sweden is the naive welfare country up north where you can decide your own identity completely without this necessarily even being controlled. This is not responsible, and it is not even normal in the eyes of the outside world; it is only naive. According to Article 28 of the directive in question, Swedish authorities may decide that the application is to be considered implicitly withdrawn if the asylum seeker has chosen not to reply to a request for information relevant to his application. All this is in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 2011/95/EU. Most asylum seekers who come to Sweden, or perhaps all of them, have crossed another EU country on the way here. In other words, this means that their application under the Dublin Regulation is to be examined in a Member State other than Sweden. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to introduce strict rules in which the applicant has to explain credibly how he has entered the Union. After such a credible declaration, the asylum seeker, fully in accordance with the Dublin Regulation and not only according to the policy of the Swedish Democrats, will thus be returned to the first Member State to which he arrived. However, if no explanation is provided, the asylum seeker's application shall be considered implicitly withdrawn. There's no way to get any clearer than that. Both the government and the Alliance have expressed a desire for the rest of Europe to take greater responsibility for asylum seekers. The proposal should therefore almost be a matter of course for both the government and the Alliance. If the rest of Europe does not respond to their appeal, perhaps it is time to force other countries into greater responsibility. Today, however, large parts of Europe know that Sweden has been facing the migration crisis that the Swedish Democrats have long warned about for many years. Mr President, I would like to The Government also disregards Article 44 of the current Directive. We want to introduce it. The Directive requires Member States to ensure that an investigation into the withdrawal of the international protection of asylum seekers is initiated as soon as new facts, information or information emerge indicating that there are grounds for reconsidering the validity of their international protection. According to 4th chapter. The Foreigners' Act should already be withdrawn in such situations. But this rule is also used very sparingly. To conclude, Mr President, I would just like to point out once again that there is a great deal for the government to do if it wants to take responsibility for Sweden. Not taking the past and current consequences of migration policy seriously is not good enough.
i-Mo8HRrTwBrq46RMRCaW3BX	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Social Security Committee's proposal in report No 6 and therefore also for the Government's proposal 2016/ 17:17 and for the rejection of other motions in motion. The background to this proposal is – if I am allowed to sound like a technocrat for a little while, Mr President – that in 2013 the European Parliament and the Council adopted Directive 2013/32 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection, the so-called revised Asylum Procedure Directive. In practice, the Directive introduces a few changes. These are minor amendments to the Aliens Act, to the Act on Good Man for unaccompanied minors, to the Act on Special Control of Foreigners and to the Act on Temporary Limitations of the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden. What do these changes mean in practice for the reception of refugees in Sweden? The answer is: quite little. The background to this is that Sweden has already implemented the first asylum procedure directive and that the procedures in Sweden are consistent with the intentions of the directive. The changes that will result from the proposal include clarification of asylum seekers' right to public assistance by law and the fact that it will be specified by law that an application for asylum can be considered manifestly unfounded if the information relied on by the foreigner is irrelevant to the examination of the application or if it lacks reliability. The proposal has also been sent to the Law Council, which had only marginal points of view which have mainly been taken into account. Thus, in practice, this proposal will not lead to any major change. Mr President, I would like to If one leaves the details, I think that the differences in view of the proposal also have to do with what the view of people and cooperation look like. We Social Democrats are convinced that Sweden on major and important issues such as climate policy and foreign policy, but also migration policy, will be stronger if we work together. We simply do not believe that alone is strong. It is therefore positive that rules and procedures relating to reception of refugees should be harmonised. On this point, and on many others, we differ from the Swedish Democrats, among others, who are calling for rejection of parts of the bill, as we have just heard. When we talk about refugee policy, we should remember that the world is going through a refugee crisis of a magnitude that no one has seen since the Second World War. Millions of people are fleeing war in the world today. We should be proud of our country's humanitarian efforts in recent years. At the same time, the situation in Sweden became unsustainable when the EU broke into solidarity and joint responsibility. This led the Red-Green Government, for example, to introduce border controls and, in broad agreement, a temporary law. We Social Democrats stand up for a regulated immigration policy. It is classical social democratic politics and part of the Swedish model. Sweden must both stand up for international conventions and stand up for a refugee policy based on the individual's right to a fair assessment of the existence of asylum grounds. But it must also be based on the fact that those who are not entitled to asylum must also leave our country. A reasonable way forward, of course, is for several countries to share responsibility in this situation. This means that we share the initial costs of reception, but also that we share the benefits of new people coming to our country, because if integration works and people come to work, it is positive for economic development to receive refugees. Furthermore, it is of course right and reasonable that everyone who is in Sweden and who has the opportunity to work also does so. There is still much to be done, particularly with regard to joint responsibility in Europe. Part of sharing responsibility in the Union is harmonising the rules. That is why this proposal is positive, and therefore, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal in the proposal.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-29	Mr President, I would like to This issue, as has been pointed out in the course of the debate, concerns the revised Asylum Procedure Directive. Overall, a great deal is happening in the EU about migration policy, or rather a great deal should happen. There are ongoing discussions, but most of it is actually still to be dealt with and put in place, such as the Dublin Regulation. The EU began its work on finding a common framework for the Asylum Procedures Directive in 1999, and eleven years later the first directive was transposed into Swedish law. Three years later, Parliament and the Council took a decision on the recast Directive, and it will be thorough and implemented into Member States' legislation by summer 2018. As we can read in the report, the purpose of this directive is to establish common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection. Among other things, it is about decisions to be made faster, be more fair and be of higher quality than before. It should also be pointed out that this Directive explicitly states that Member States may, if they so wish, retain more favourable provisions provided that they are compatible with the Directive. These changes affect a number of areas. These are personal interviews where the applicant is given the opportunity to be heard about his/her application before the authority takes a decision, free of charge assistance in the event of an appeal, guarantees for unaccompanied minors. It also regulates the forms of manifestly unfounded applications. The pleas which may remain in force in order to regard an application as manifestly unfounded are that the applicant has relied on reasons which are insufficient or, as it is said, lacking credibility. In this context, provision has also been made for the right of the applicant to remain in the Member State while an appeal is being examined. This was a sample, and there are further questions in the report. The government has presented a bill to incorporate these changes into Swedish legislation, which we, as previous speakers have pointed out, are also obliged to do. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have not submitted a follow-up motion in this area. We have chosen to assist the changes that the government has made. It is clear that this concerns many issues in the debate on migration policy that are important to us Moderates and where we have views that differ from those of the government on several points. There is, for example, the issue of return, which is an area that simply does not work today. We are about to have a situation within a few years with nearly 70 000 people living in Sweden without a permit. This corresponds to the size of a medium-sized Swedish city. We note that the majority of those who return today do so voluntarily, not infrequently after having withdrawn their application. However, the number of cases of forced expulsion remains low. It is about 3 000 – 4 000 people this year. Only yesterday came the news that the Afghan Parliament has unfortunately voted against the agreement that would allow forced expulsions to be carried out. It is very problematic, I have to say, that the Swedish Government's negotiations with the Afghan counterpart seem to have been completely unsuccessful in the sense that there is still no working agreement on the ground. We must sincerely hope that the agreement negotiated jointly by the European Union with Afghanistan will facilitate return. Mr President, I would like to However, much work remains to be done in the EU as well. Several things are up for discussion right now. I would like to stress, on behalf of the Moderates, the importance of having a migration policy that is long-term and sustainable and where Swedish rules and laws are in line with what applies in our neighbouring countries in the EU. I believe that our responsibility for people does not end on the day you cross the border, but a plan to manage integration, jobs, housing and school places – all of this – must in a completely different way than before be a factor when we draw up laws and regulations in migration policy too. The long-term perspective is important. As previous speakers pointed out, we now have temporary legislation in this area. It will expire in 2019 if nothing is unforeseen. I wonder what happens if this happens and Sweden returns to the policy that applied earlier. What have we learned from the refugee crisis? This particular report, as I have said, touches on the changes that are necessary from the point of view of what has been decided in the European Union, and I, on behalf of the Moderates, would like to call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-UCnnAhuLzrSEJThuGcQsf7	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the SfU6 report on the implementation of the revised Asylum Procedure Directive. The report is about incorporating the revised Asylum Procedures Directive into Swedish law. The Asylum Procedure Directive regulates the way in which the asylum process is to be conducted in the EU Member States. The original Asylum Procedure Directive was adopted in 2005 when the Basic Directive, the Reception Directive, the Eurodac Regulation, the Dublin Regulation and the Mass Escape Directive were also adopted. It was incorporated into Swedish law in 2010 and has now been revised and will be incorporated into Swedish law in an updated version. At the same time, most of these acts, including the Asylum Procedure Directive, are being negotiated at EU level. Legislation in this area is constantly evolving, and there will certainly be many changes in the future. It is extremely important that, in the current negotiations at EU level, Sweden should work towards joint responsibility for the reception of refugees within the EU. All EU Member States need to take responsibility when so many people are on the run and in need of international protection. It is just as important that Sweden works to protect the right of asylum and human rights now that these acts are again being negotiated. We know that this is not the top priority in all Member States, and it is important that our vote is clear on the importance of good reception, strong rights for asylum seekers and legal certainty and effective systems. Today's report contains a number of legislative changes and also cases where the law in force in Sweden is sufficient and where changes are not needed to meet the requirements of the directive. The government's assessments include who is to be able to apply for asylum for a minor person, the right to remain in Sweden while determining authorities examine an application, guarantees for the applicant and so-called subsequent application. In all cases, the Government considers that the provisions of the revised Asylum Procedure Directive are complied with by the law in force and therefore no constitutional changes are required. With regard to the Government's proposal for legislative amendments, rules shall be introduced to allow the Finnish Immigration Service to refrain from carrying out oral proceedings only in cases where the applicant is granted refugee status and on the right to public assistance in appeals against the decision of the Finnish Immigration Service not to grant a new review. The Aliens Act and the Foreigners' Control Act must also provide that unaccompanied minors must always be entitled to a public representative. Another of the Government's proposals concerns an amendment to the Aliens Act, which means that the right to public representation also applies to appeals against the Migration Agency's decision to withdraw a status statement. The law also specifies what is to be defined as manifestly unfounded applications. An application shall be considered manifestly unfounded if the information relied on by the foreigner is irrelevant to the examination of the application or lacks reliability. This means that an application from a person who can be sent to a first country of asylum, to a safe third country or to another Member State that has granted international protection is no longer to be considered as manifestly unfounded. At the same time, however, the Government proposes that an applicant who can be sent to a first country of asylum or who has been declared a refugee or a person in need of protection in another EU State should be rejected with immediate enforcement. The Government also makes several proposals concerning the right to remain while an appeal is being examined and that enforcement should nevertheless be possible. However, asylum seekers or family members of an asylum seeker shall continue to have the right to remain in the country until a removal decision has become final. A migration court shall examine the question of inhibition, and unaccompanied minors shall have one week to stop before a decision on expulsion is enforced. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and the proposal and rejection of the motions.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-52	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to discuss the Culture Committee's report 1 Area of expenditure 17 Culture, the media, religious communities and leisure. It is not only about cultural policy, but also about sport, civil society, public service, education and much more. My party colleague Saila Quicklund will later highlight, among other things, the importance of sport. I myself will focus mainly on cultural policy. This year we are debating the field of cultural policy before almost all other areas. Culture comes first, in many ways. I am not saying that as part of a defence speech, but because it is actually that way. Yesterday I took part in a debate, including with the Minister for Culture, at Kulturhuset here in Stockholm. There another panel member noted and regretted that art and culture should always be motivated from a utility point of view. We need to invest in culture because it increases growth, because it contributes to our education and because it is good for health. And right away, we'll try to measure how much it contributes. How much does the bnp increase? Is it worth it? How many get healthier? The same thing is recognized now, when there is a debate about which values are most prioritised and what the task of art and culture is. How can culture increase democratisation? Integration? The Norm Criticism? Social sustainability? And anxiously one tries to measure how much and what is correct and then steer in a certain direction. Sometimes I'd like to turn my perspective around. If we take away culture, we'll see what we have left and what society we get. What would we be without the stories that transfer knowledge between us, whether they come in the form of a book, through oral tradition, through music or through a painting? How could we ever understand our world if we do not understand our own history? How would we create a basis for understanding those who come from another country, but also between us who have lived here for generations? That understanding is not achieved by making culture an instrument in political hands or something that should be governed right. There are countries in our vicinity that are currently testing that line. It also occurs in the Swedish debate sometimes. On the other hand, the free-exploring culture is of invaluable importance to our society, as we feel it. Mr President, I would like to If one is to summarize from the government's perspective the cultural policy year that has passed, it will probably be a pretty clear one. It's like it's never gonna be the way you wanted it to be. Everything is marked by strong will and full momentum ahead. But even if the will is good, it is the results that count. High speed is rarely a good way to compensate for the wrong direction of travel. A large part of the year has come to be about film policy – the biggest reform during its term of office. The fact that there was clear opposition to the government's film policy was clear early on. But the government ran at full speed. That's what happened. The Parliament failed in terms of funding, organisation, production conditions, cooperation, digitalisation and piracy. How the government intends to deliver based on this remains to be seen. The wording of the budget proposal is usually to no avail. But I can reassure the government parties that we will follow up on all the points. A museum investigation was presented, and the government's first reaction was to close the National Exhibitions. That was done before you had thought about consequences or what to have instead. It will only be dealt with one year later, when the Government's cultural heritage bill is presented. It will also be the biggest reform in its term of office. During the year we have also been able to follow the tours of the Media investigation. It shall form the basis for the main reform during its term of office. It is now presented, and it remains to be seen what the government is able to do with the result. I don't really envy the government that task. However, the fact that the process is not quite clear is shown when you start setting up discussion groups in the Riksdag before the proposal has even gone out for a referral and we hear what those who are actually affected really think. Unfortunately, this has become something of a recurring problem in the field of culture. You shoot a little from your hip – honk and drive. The ambitions are great, but the time pressure is hard to complete everything before the next election. The problem is that when stress enters, reflection steps out of the door. Sometimes I'd have wanted a little more sense. With this, it is not said that everything the government does is bad. No, some things are really good. Not least, I welcome today's decision to finally proceed with the renovation and reconstruction of the Royal Opera. The fact that the advance study initiated by the Alliance Government is now being carried out is excellent. It took some time, but the government is to be commended for doing so now. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are presenting a tighter budget this year than the government. Unlike the left-wing bloc, we are putting forward a balanced budget. We don't believe in big deficits in the boom. This is where we can collect in the barns. In our budget, we are therefore saving the 13 billion that the government's over-consumption costs. This is important because the cultural area is very much affected by the policy as a whole. If you make it more expensive to hire a cultural sector with already hard-pressed margins. If small businesses are made more difficult, the cultural sector, many of which are now small or self-employed, is affected. If taxes are increased by 40 billion, the cultural sector will naturally be affected. And when one weakens the household's consumption space and economy, culture is affected. Culture is not isolated. The decisions you make have an impact, and you have to take responsibility for that. The fact that we are presenting a tighter budget as a whole also means that we are presenting a tighter budget in the field of culture. We reject much of the government's new efforts and even tear up some of the investments that we think are wrong. Mr President, I would like to We are presenting a tighter budget. But we also make some very important and prioritised efforts. Reading is the basis for a child's linguistic and intellectual development. It is about the right of all children and young people to know. We know how important a wider vocabulary is, and also that you get to meet different stories that you can identify with and develop through. We therefore propose 50 million in a special reading effort aimed at children and young people in socio-economically weak areas. Another of our proposals concerns Creative School. It was one of the most important cultural policy reforms of the Alliance government. It reaches children and young people in the environment where all children are present daily, school. The challenge is to ensure that even more students and schools can take part in the initiative. We welcomed the expansion that the government initiated last year for preschool class, but also believe that it is time to take the step further. We are therefore proposing an extension to include upper secondary school. As I have mentioned before, one of the most important roles of culture and art is to challenge our performances and test our borders. For many years, we could see the Foundation's culture successfully investing in and enabling exciting art projects and collaborations. They created space for what didn't always fit otherwise. For a number of years, this activity has been transferred to Kulturbryggan. We want to further develop Kulturbryggan's activities and therefore want to double their budget. Through various collaborations with other parties, we can note that each invested crown on Kulturbryggan has generated one and a half crowns for cultural life. This, of course, is a development we hope will continue. In addition, we are making extensive efforts in the field of sport. However, as I said, Mrs Quicklund will explain later in the debate. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude a little where I started, by talking about the value of culture. So did I last year. Reflection, understanding, respect, responsibility, empathy, recognition, consideration and insight are concepts that are often outside the usual debate but are essential for us to function as human beings. It is about openness and freedom, about curiosity and discovery, about knowledge and provocation, about boundaries that break down and taboos that break down. Future cultural policy must build on these insights in the long term, and I hope for many good discussions and debates on this in the future. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report, with the exception of paragraph 1, where the Moderates do not intend to take part in the decision.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-75	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear Olof Lavesson from the speaker's chair talk warmly about the importance of culture. I agree with what Olof says. As you also highlighted, you are putting almost 500 million less in funding for the cultural budget. This applies, among other things, to culture, sport and education. I was going to highlight a part of the budget that you do not mention at all, and that is the issues of peoples' education. A year ago when we had a debate here, we had a situation where many people had to flee their home countries. Sweden was one of the countries to which it chose to come. The government and the bourgeois parties then made a deal, which was great. Part of that deal was that a great deal was invested not least in civil society. There were people's education organisations. Therefore, I am a little surprised that, in the alternative to moderate budget, you want to remove the 175 million that would go to education and study associations in order to work with the Swedish language and social studies for those who are asylum seekers or who live in the housing facilities. I would like to ask Olof Lavesson: What is it that makes you choose to pull your feet away for many of the people who come here?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-80	Mr President, I would like to I note Gunilla Carlsson's somewhat generous rounding off on the level of the moderate cultural budget. We make a number of other priorities, one of which is education. We also say no to the free admission reform that the government has carried out and which we think is wrong and benefits the museums in Stockholm's inner city. Furthermore, we do not think it is right to spend a lot of money on municipal culture in the form of cultural school. Rather, we think that the government should concentrate on supporting that activity in other ways. Gunilla Carlsson mentioned the integration situation and the aftermath of the migration crisis. It's true we made a deal, and we're proud of it. But we have also been very critical of the government's other efforts to speed up integration, to manage to build bridges into the labour market and to get people into work and education early. Folkbildning's activities make a fantastic contribution; you should have all the credit for that and we are behind that. But we do not think that the extra effort made by the government is so effective. We would rather use that money to invest in real jobs and bridges into the labour market. We have also put forward proposals on this in our large budget. That is the policy that we stand by. When you look at the total funding for peoples' education, we do not believe that the SEK 175 million is crucial for the important work that the organisations are doing.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-86	Mr President, I would like to I find it sad that the Moderates do not see all the wonderful work that the study associations are doing out in the shelters available for asylum seekers. It is also shown that when there is an opportunity to take a preparatory education in Swedish and get knowledge of how society works, then you will get faster to the next step in society and get the opportunity to read SFI and other things. It is only to be regretted that the Moderates are now taking away the 175 million to go to this business, because they have done an incredible amount of good for this group to move on faster into society. I also thought the Moderates thought that was important. I would like to raise another point with which you concluded your speech. You're spending 25 million on Kulturbryggan. But what you're not talking about is that you're also taking 11 million on that appropriation. The grant includes compensation for artists. I have a question about that, because it is not quite read in your budget option: what should the 11 million be removed from? Is it the increase of 8 million that will go to library remuneration for authors to have a better and more decent situation? Or where are the 11 million to be removed from? I would like to hear that, and I also think that a great many artists would like to know.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-88	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot that Gunilla Carlsson finds sad. I find it rather sad that the government does not listen any more when it comes to making sharp proposals to increase integration in Sweden. Rather, we are talking about different types of projects that are being proposed, but when harmonisation really means something, little happens. Gunilla Carlsson mentioned SFI. We have made clear proposals to reform the SFI. Why do Gunilla Carlsson and the Social Democrats not agree to these proposals so that there is an effective education so that they quickly enter Swedish society and into the labour market? As far as the Culture Bridge is concerned, there is little mention of the innovative culture in the government's budget option. I look forward to hearing Gunilla Carlsson's policy of innovation as she takes the floor. It is the innovative culture that somewhere guarantees all that we call our constitutional freedoms. It is the one who tests boundaries, which cracks taboos and brings our freedoms to life. Yet this important function is not mentioned at all in the government budget. I hope it will be mentioned by the Social Democrats. It is very clear in our particular opinion and also in our motion that we have another general assessment of the price and salary recalculation. It will be visible in all the appropriations – I am absolutely convinced of that. I thought Gunilla Carlsson would list all the funds, but it might have been within the somewhat generous 500 million. We are proud of Kulturbryggan. It goes out to the whole country, and it is something that we have seen can contribute even more money. Each crown gives another crown and a half to cultural life. It is an initiative of which I am proud and which I hope we can carry out in the future.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-93	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I can agree with quite a lot of what Olof Lavesson said in his introduction. But the Moderates presented a very thin and incomplete field of spending exercise where you don't answer all the questions and distributions. It wants to reduce the overall framework by almost half a billion, which has major consequences even if it wants to return to a lower level of ambition. But the few investments made are invested in areas where the exchange is still relatively low. The narrow and in many and very exclusive art is rewarded by reinforcements of the Culture Bridge. At the same time, there are pressing and strong needs around the country in terms of efforts on heritage conservation, cultural environment issues and the like. There you don't want to bet anything at all. One of the few initiatives the Moderates make is that they advocate an extension of the Creative School to high school. We agree on the extension of the Creative School, but the Swedish Democrats want to go the other way, on the lower ages where the meeting with culture from childhood is even more important. We want to create an interest and strengthen learning opportunities through the stimulation of culture and music. Are the Moderates prepared to direct Creative School more closely to preschool in the future? We know that in upper secondary school there is another access to culture, but the educators and teachers who teach preschool do not have any cultural or musical education in their educational education.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-97	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad Aron Emilsson is lifting the Creative School. It is a reform that we are very proud and happy about. We carried it out in a rather strong political headwind, but then, thank God, the government parties have turned. We are also pleased that last year we were able to jointly decide to extend Creative School to preschool class. We have done one of the weighing and asked ourselves what the next step is. Preschools devote a great deal of effort and time to cultural aspects of their activities, while high school sees increasing difficulties. That is why we have chosen to prioritise upper secondary school, and we think that is a good priority. Then it is fun, Mr President, to be lectured by the Swedish Democrats for having an exclusive policy. There's something to think about. If anyone in this room has an exclusive policy, it is surely Aaron Emilsson. The Swedish Democrats are exemplaryly clear in their budget motion. It is a question of narrowing, enclosing and delimiting culture into small pieces, and that is particularly true of the cultural heritage that you are talking so warmly about. According to your proposal, you should set up something that you call Swedish pilots and centres in the suburbs. At the same time, you are talking about the important common culture. I would therefore like to ask Aron Emilsson : Will it be the task of the Swedish pilots and centres to guide all new arrivals in Sweden and show what a fantastic multifaceted culture we have and how they can recognize their own culture in our common Swedish culture? In fact, there are traces from all over the world of all those who have come to Sweden for generations and who contribute to our fine Swedish cultural heritage. Is this what should be shown by the Swedish pilots and at the Swedish centres? This is not really what I read between the lines in Aron Emilsson's proposal.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-102	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit entertaining to hear the Moderates criticise our extensive proposals for reforms in the field of cultural pilots, as they are called, and Sweden Centres, given that not least the proposal for Sweden Centres has great similarities with what Moderates at the local level have proposed. They have discussed Swedish cultural centres and the like with a view to strengthening integration among newcomers and immigrants in the Swedish majority society. It is also interesting to note that once the Moderates land more and more correctly in the political debate and discourse, they still dissuade extensive efforts and reforms aimed at strengthening the integration of newcomers and immigrants into Swedish society. Many of our major reforms are directed towards this. It is a little strange if the Moderates think that we are narrowing down cultural policy and cultural policy work in view of our proposals for cultural policy objectives on which we have both this year and before. In connection with what Olof Lavesson himself mentioned from the speaker's chair earlier, I would like to say that in these goals we strengthen the role of culture in social areas where there is no natural connection today or where the presence is weak. We want to broaden the concept of culture and connect culture with health, nature conservation and community building. We want to weave the cultural perspective and the concept of culture in contexts where it is currently lacking. In this respect, we broaden the cultural perspective. What do the Moderates want with cultural policy? What vision do you have, and wherein does your opposition consist? This shines with its absence in the Moderates' motion for the field of expenditure.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-107	Mr President, I would like to I think I was extremely clear about the conflict areas that we see. This was true both against the government parties and perhaps to an even greater extent against the Swedish Democrats. It is about not seeing art and culture as political instruments. There are countries to which the Swedish Democrats look appreciatively, such as Hungary, where culture is used as a tool. You put it in small rooms and say what functions it should have according to the political dictates that apply to the day. It is interesting to hear the Swedish Democrats for the first time take the word Until last year, it was called assimilation. They talk about integration but then take away from people every tool available to achieve real integration. They speak of a cultural heritage that is so narrow and limited that it fits in a small box. In addition, we can read suggestions that one should apparently have a citizenship requirement linked to the libraries. One of the most important educational institutions that we have should not have access to if you come from another country and are newly arrived in Sweden. After all, I would like to wish Aron Emilsson a happy Christmas holiday. We have a fine tradition ahead of us, lucia. Lucia is an Italian saint who died in the fourth century for her belief that a Hebrew-Jewish man in ancient times in Israel was the son of Gud. Our French-born king celebrates this with our German-born and Brazilian-born queen and perhaps with his children and his British son-in-law. They probably do this by eating buns with delicious saffron from Iran. As I said, I wish Aron Emilsson a happy lucia weekend, and let us all enjoy this multifaceted cultural heritage that we call Swedish.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-112	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 2 in the report and reject the other reservations. I would also like to say that we support our specific opinion in favour of our proposals for a framework for appropriations in the field of expenditure. Having said that, I intended briefly to set aside formulas, raise my eyes and look at trends and trends in cultural policy. I would like to draw the ear of this House and Sweden's citizens to some cultural policy issues which, in several respects, are seeking to fundamentally reshape our cultural institutions in the future. There we can see diametrically different objectives and means in each party's movements for the area of expenditure being dealt with at the moment. We stand in many ways in what I call the cultural glitch, at a time when contradictions and polarisation must at the same time be replaced by civic spirit and welding. This is indeed a so - called challenge. This year we have seen how a museum inquiry, a library debacle and a cultural school inquiry work far from what has been fundamental to culture – the purpose of education and education policy for decades: an effort to convey knowledge and education. We see what was just touched upon in the line shift. It is a desire to politicise cultural institutions and activities, not from a Swedish-democratic point of view, but rather from a government perspective. This is worrying. What is all this an expression of? Cultural institutions with a core to convey science and education about literature, collections and object care will be transformed to work rather with dialogue and political opinion formation on gender analyses, norm-critical analyses and various forms of intellectual trends to set the agenda. Who stands for politicisation in this context and keeps arm's length at bay, and who doesn't? This can be reflected on. Film policy has been touched upon. Now the government is baxing through a policy that goes against Parliament's announcement. When should the government listen and take into account the announcements made by a parliamentary majority and change the course? The question is still unanswered. The major investments made by the Swedish Democrats in this year's cultural policy budget concern the cultural pilots and the centre of Sweden, which we have previously touched upon. This is an historic reform in terms of both means and scope. We believe that the other parties have failed completely when they have analysed what integration should be based on, what strengthens integration and what failures have been made in integration. This is something that more and more people understand, which we welcome. Integration is not just about employment or simple jobs. It is not just a citizenship document that is watered down in many respects. Instead, it is a question of cultural cohesion, cultural cohesion and community. We can see this from what has worked in the past and what is not working today as well as from what it is. We have a split country and segregation. In a series of cultural heritage reforms, we explain what is needed and provide tools and means for the urgent needs that we have listened to from outside the country to strengthen cultural environment and cultural heritage forms and to nurture the heritage that has been left to us for future generations. It is about a cultural heritage-ROT deduction, a cultural heritage fund inspired by Norway and a cultural cannon. The latter is a test map for the school and education system where students get access to and gain insight and insight into a number of inalienable cultural gems that have shaped Sweden's image abroad but also our own image of Sweden as a nation and cultural historical development. In order to strengthen the integration of immigrants into Swedish society, the development of municipalities, the relation of residents to their local cultural heritage and social capital, we are launching the cultural pilots. It is a national cultural policy reform for the integration and revitalisation of cultural life. We do this by giving the Swedish Arts Council an earmarked grant and a targeted mission to set up, together with the National Heritage Office, a common unit in order to develop, on the basis of clear directives, a model for coordination, criteria and indicators for the reform. Around Sweden's municipalities there must be a local cultural slot, whose task should be collection, marketing and coordination. It is about how school, care for the elderly, cultural school, libraries, civil society etcetera can use the different forms of local cultural heritage for the dissemination of knowledge and artistic practice, and not least to secure and strengthen the relationship with local history and community. This applies to the relationship between immigrants and the majority society, between teachers and pupils and between older and younger people. Not least, it is important for the municipality's tourism industry. Along with a nationwide establishment of cultural pilots, we allocate funds for the establishment of a number of so-called Swedish centres in the most distinctive parallel communities and suburban environments as a first step. The intention is for these centres to make visible and convey information about Swedish society, Swedish culture and local cultural heritage, which is often rich. This can enable newcomers to connect with the majority society and can, in general, strengthen local identity and cohesion, something that is needed in many areas, as we all know here. As we have cultural councils abroad, there is today a need for cultural pilots and institutions that convey what Sweden and the local community have to offer. We must lay the foundations for new cultural policy objectives for a united nation with three aspects in mind: the role of culture in society, individual quality of life and the conditions of the labour market. We propose that the current national objectives of cultural policy be repealed and replaced by the following objectives: The culture will link Sweden's past with present and future, manage the country's history and heritage and strengthen the community in society. 中 Individuals at all stages of life should be given the opportunity for cultural experiences. Therefore, we invest in everything from Creative School and Creative Preschool to Creative Elderly Care. The culture should be given the opportunity to play a major role in health and to link nature and cultural care. Let culture be woven in and inspire more sectors of society! 中 Cultural historical considerations and cultural planning should be an integral part of urban and urban planning issues. We are at a cultural policy stage where the debate on cultural policy begins to be about and show diametrically different views on what culture should be aimed at. Should it strengthen communication between us as citizens and restore the spirit of citizenship and a community, or should it take into account flat current intellectual trends in norm criticism, gender analysis or temporary ideals?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-130	Mr President, I would like to There's only one reason to dance, and that's having fun. So I started every dance session when I worked as a dance teacher 20 years ago. And so it is with culture – it has an obvious value in itself. Then, of course, I also saw that the dance contributed to other values, such as when a child who had previously been excluded came into the community through the dance. In the Center Party we see the value of culture. But we also see the value of many of its side effects. We strive for everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, possible disability and life situation, to have the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that includes both professional culture and amateurs' creation. The Center Party wants every person to have the opportunity to develop no matter where in the country they live. Civil society has an important role to play here, with peoples' education and associations. The whole of civil society is incredibly important in the process of integration. Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that the Center Party wants greater financial responsibility than what we see in the government budget. In good times, fiscal policy must create protective walls in the face of a future decline. Instead, however, the current government chooses to let public finances go in deficit next year. Instead, the Centre Party is proposing a budget that is already in balance next year and that reaches surpluses in the following years. In the Center Party we are also clear that we see the potential throughout Sweden, the importance of the whole country living and developing. Having said that, I would like to point out the efforts we want to make on civil society, on sports associations and on outdoor life. Across the country, initiatives are being taken. Sports clubs organise trainings for unaccompanied minors. Elsewhere, outdoor organizations show what access our nature is. In order to strengthen association life's work with integration and social work in sport as well as in outdoor life, the Center Party proposes a clear commitment to these activities. These are activities that exist throughout the country, in cities and not least in smaller towns and rural areas. What is also important for society is that there are meeting places. It is in the district garden, in the People's House and in the sobriety club's local man meet for meetings and parties. Meeting places are a prerequisite for culture throughout the country. It is in the district farms professional cultural creators that the Panikteatern has its stage. This is where rooms are provided for both amateurs and professional cultural meetings. In many places, not least in rural areas, the assembly halls are a hub around which civil society is organised. We in the Center Party therefore want to increase support for assembly halls considerably compared with the government's proposal. We see that civil society has often succeeded very well in things that state authorities with many billions of funds have failed to do. That is why we want to give civil society better opportunities to develop their work. This will also create a diversity of culture throughout the country, even for culture that may not fit in with what is currently appreciated in the institutions. Instead, it is given the chance to develop through civil society. In the Center Party we also see the opportunities of artistic entrepreneurship. But then we need a completely different policy from the anti-business tax-raising policy that the government is pursuing. The threshold for entrepreneurship and freelance work is currently unnecessarily high and needs to be reduced. For the creator of culture, the creation itself, the cultural expression chosen, must instead be the focus. Mr President, I would like to The film is one of the cultural forms most people take part in. Not least cinema culture is an important and accessible cultural form throughout the country. The cinema is also a cultural form that attracts all age categories: children, young people, the elderly. But that will change when the government's strong increase in VAT on the cinema ticket from 6% to 25% is now implemented. The increase in VAT on the cinema ticket, together with other major tax increases implemented by the government, such as the doubling of the employer's fee for young people, is a manslaughter blow for Swedish cinema culture. Those most affected are usually cinemas in small towns and in rural areas. Small private operators and community-run cinemas have no margins. In smaller communities, the cinema is also often the cultural bearer of the locality. The cinema performs several functions, such as a meeting room, community centre, school, theatre stage and mediation of opera, concerts and ballet. These are activities that are threatened if the cinema disappears. A lower VAT rate is a much better support for cinemas than government subsidies in the form of new large salons and training for staff to provide acceptance for increased fares. Mr President, I would like to The government's Sweden ends just north of Stockholm, somewhere around Skokloster about. It is one of the very few state museums located outside Stockholm City and the far north of Sweden. The 80 million tax dollars the government spends on free admission for adults thus mainly ends up in Stockholm City. We in the Center Party see and lift instead the whole country. With that, Mr President, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-141	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the House to a very unfortunate clerical error which occurred during the presentation of the Liberals' cultural policy exercise. In the exercise, we describe a major investment in the cultural co-operation model, both in terms of money and content. Unfortunately, this investment has been subject to the wrong appropriations, namely under 1:2 instead of under 1:6. This is described in footnote 3 of p. 19 of the report. I hope the House will forgive and understand this mistake. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to support reservation 3 in paragraph 8. Thirdly, in paragraph 1 of the report, I would like to refer to the specific opinion of the Liberals. Our draft budget is a whole and has fallen into the previous vote on the financial framework. In line with this, we are abstaining in the forthcoming vote on Category 17. Mr President, I would like to Don't we see the forest for all the trees? Is one so absorbed in the details of cultural policy that one has lost the whole picture? Could it be that we rush on and plant plants at the plant in the cultural forest in a way that makes us lose the whole, completely lost ourselves among all the trees and lost our way in the forest? From time to time it is useful to take a few steps back and actually look at the whole and see the overall. In the Liberals' work on cultural policy, we therefore want to describe an approach, a liberal holistic approach. It is a matter of taking a few steps back and actually looking at the overall role and role of cultural policy in principle. With this in our motion, we Liberals are proposing some basic changes to the course. We want to describe precisely that approach to culture and art based on our liberal approach. In order for cultural policy really to become the powerful tool that our society needs, we liberals believe that the very starting point of the objectives and of the state's approach to regional and municipal self-government needs to be changed. Mr President, I would like to There are few policies that are as bad for legislation, direction or political governance as culture. Any attempt to narrow down culture by political means must be averted. The inherent power of culture lies precisely in the concept of freedom, dynamism, questioning and in its role of being quite unruly. At a time when everything from performers to journalists is being questioned around the world and also in our vicinity and democratic freedoms is being curtailed, this is all the more important. A society with a rich and diverse cultural life leads to free and conscious citizens and thereby obtains an inherent antidote to totalitarian tendencies and uncritical thinking. That is why, Mr President, we Liberals are proposing that the national targets should be based on three fundamental but rather simple principles: freedom, diversity and quality. Raising these state-run targets covers many of today's many objectives and also tools to achieve them. These three simpler and fundamental objectives can be more fundamental and more general on the part of the state. Selective principles, detailed management and impreciseness must be applied very restrictively by the state. Unfortunately, we see, Mr President, that the distance of the arm is a concept where the length of the arms can vary very considerably. National cultural support should be allocated with greater confidence in local and regional competences. It must also be characterised by predictability and long-termism. It is clear, Mr President, that Sweden, with the government's policy, is moving towards a more centralised culture approach, where instead we need a cultural policy for the whole country. By weaving cultural policy with regional policy, we liberals create real conditions for development everywhere. The cultural cooperation model plays a key role in this. That is why we liberals allocate SEK 100 million more than the government's funding for 2017 to strengthen the cultural cooperation model. We are making more investments in our draft budget in, for example, the museum area and other areas in order to highlight the local and regional competences in our efforts to spread culture throughout the country. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to highlight what is unfortunately significant for the government's cultural policy. That is one of the main reasons why we reject a long line of so-called special efforts made by the government. These are bets where special-destined money is poured into very narrow pipes straight out into activities to sponsor individual parts. Each individual may seem very laudable. But it also breaks down the whole and creates imbalances. It is contrary to the liberal path of general, horizontal policy at a real arm's length.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-150	Mr President, I would like to First, a few thoughtful words by Alf Henriksson in Advent times: Sometimes time sort of stops a blow and something unexpected happens. The world changes every day but sometimes it never becomes the same again. Events are shaking our world. Despite enlightenment and great humanitarian efforts, as someone has said, we learn from history that we do not learn from history. One of the most shocking features of our time is the xenophobia that is growing in Europe today. Christian democracy is a counterforce to this, and democracy must be won in every new generation. In Europe, Christian Democrats are a force to be reckoned with. Robert Schuman, Konrad Adenauer and Angela Merkel are Christian Democrats who have put their emphasis on Europe's democratic work after the Second World War. We want a policy that creates the conditions for people to build relationships and highlights good values at a time when much of it is being demolished. We want a society that creates security and trust in each other and highlights good values. We are not giving up that vision but working on it. We can be bold and determined, not afraid and discouraged. We are all imperfect in ourselves, but in relationships with one another we become strong and build society together. Mr President, I would like to Culture arises in the encounter between people and is created by all of us together. There is nothing static but something living that is constantly changing. It gives us meaning in the present but also bears our historical roots and gives birth to visions for the future. There are some areas I would like to highlight. The first concerns the Authority's Living History Forum, which does a very good job of providing knowledge and information on humanitarian and democracy-promoting efforts. We also learned that during a visit as late as today. We Christian Democrats believe that the Living History Forum should also be given the task of informing about the crimes of violent Islamism. In this way, the skills accumulated in enlightening the atrocities of National Socialism and the crimes of Communist regimes against humanity can also be used to highlight violent Islamism. The denunciation of weakness and the desire for perfection will always culminate in humanitarian disaster. We want to increase the funding for the Living History Forum by 10 million in addition to the Government's proposal. We Christian Democrats also want to strengthen the model of cultural cooperation introduced by the Alliance Government. We believe in this model, that government money is allocated more regionally. It has not fully broken down: Money is distributed to roughly the same recipient as before. The institutions do not feel that they receive more funds, rather the opposite. And in practice, even the state's list has not been sufficient for price and cost developments. But there are a lot of things happening in county councils and regions that we think are very positive for the supply of culture in the country. In order for the model to be developed, we want to reinforce it by 10 million in addition to the Government's proposal. The Alliance and the government see with different glasses on film and film politics. The government wants to increase the VAT on cinema tickets from 6% to 25%. With this increase, both cinema visitors and smaller cinemas in rural areas are affected. We Christian Democrats want the film, as part of cultural policy, to have the same rate of VAT as other cultural activities, i.e. 6%. We refer to Parliament's announcement and thus reject the increase in VAT on cinema tickets. Mr President, I would like to Protecting and nurturing the common cultural heritage is a key element of Christian Democratic cultural policy. Cultural heritage issues will of course be highlighted with vigour during the spring in connection with a proposal from the government. Nevertheless, I would like to mention this because it is an important issue for me as a Christian Democrat, and I know that I share the interest and commitment to the cultural heritage issues with my colleagues in the party. One example of successful preservation of cultural heritage is the classic list that we Christian Democrats are proposing. It is about literature, music and also the epochs of art, but also about the intangible cultural heritage, which includes traditions, values and views. Also virtues such as civil courage, justice, courage, wisdom and honesty are intangible cultural heritage that holds together and develops our society so that we can live in security and trust in one another. On these issues, we politicians and parties do not always agree, but having the issue up-to-date and discussing openly what we want to see as our culture and cultural heritage and how we preserve it in the best way has an intrinsic value in itself. To finish where I started with Alf Henriksson : It is when our society and our lives are shaken that culture means the most. I refer to our specific opinion in the report.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-166	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Since the Social Democratic-led government took over after eight years of moderate fiscal policy, the government, now supported by the Left Party, has invested in the construction of society. It's a community building where more people go to work. If you work in health care, you have received more colleagues. B urban construction has started to take off, and training places have increased. These are just a few examples of what has happened in a short time. For us Social Democrats, it is obvious that art, culture, sport and education are important parts of the construction of society. When we invest in the cultural school, libraries, performing arts and free admission to state museums, it is an investment for the whole of society. For us, culture is not just a leisure activity for those with resources: everyone should have the right to participate in culture and to participate in culture. Therefore, the government has clearly focused precisely on the possibility for more people to participate in but also to participate in the culture. This has marked the efforts that have been made. But it is also important that there is culture throughout the country. Art and culture create jobs. It makes a city attractive, dynamic and exciting. In recent years, culturally active party representatives from all parties and from all regions have asked for more resources from the state in the so-called cultural cooperation model, a model for financing regional and local culture. It was the former, moderate, Minister of Culture who introduced the model. Unfortunately, however, during the period of bourgeois government, no new resources have been provided. It has always been more important to give priority to further tax cuts, which have eroded the model. The regions have had to take increasing financial responsibility for maintaining the level. Perhaps it was precisely this that was the moderate idea: that the state should withdraw further and further away from the financial responsibility for taking an increasing share of the cost at local and regional level. At least I can't interpret it any other way. But this government has listened to the regions and sees the needs that exist. Last year, the grant was increased by 15 million, and even in the budget we are discussing today, the grant was increased by an additional 30 million annually during the period 2017–2020, giving a total of 120 million SEK more to the cultural cooperation model. It also adds 5 million to reading promotion efforts, especially during school holidays, and 58 million to strengthen musical performing arts throughout the country. But that is not enough, Mr President: the government continues to invest SEK 100 million in increasing access to music and culture schools. This gives more children and young people the opportunity to learn to play an instrument, sing in choir, play theatre, dance or something else in the cultural school's selection. Those who have visited any of these amazing activities that exist in almost all municipalities, which I assume you have all done, certainly have different stories to tell. I myself still have a strong memory of the boys and girls who at the preschool in Hammarkullen in Gothenburg played violin for me with such a fantastic enthusiasm. It is almost that Kalle Moraeus will have to watch out, because here comes a whole new generation. I hope that in 20 years' time, when we visit the concert halls around the country, we may be able to hear one of these boys or girls in the orchestras. But even if this does not happen, they have knowledge and cohesion with them for the rest of their lives. I am absolutely convinced of that. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a strong association and education tradition that goes back a long way in history. Today there are only about 5 million members in sport and outdoor life. During last year, outdoor life almost doubled its funding, and the sports movement receives more than 1.9 billion in additional funding from this budget. This is how we create the conditions for more children and young people to have active leisure time. We can look at the activities of study associations. There were nearly 1 million participants only in the study circle last year. This is only a small part of all the associations that exist. Together with many others, they have taken an extra great responsibility lately in being a link into society for many of those who have been forced to flee from war to our country in order to have a more secure existence. I would like to highlight and thank all the organisations that contribute in various ways to this work. You make a difference to a lot of people. The government continues to invest 175 million in the education of the population in addition to the ordinary grant in order to be able to continue to give people knowledge of the Swedish language and about Swedish society. Mr President, I would like to Against this draft budget is a split bourgeoisie which in many parts has completely different proposals. But one thing they have in common. They all have a low level of ambition. Everyone puts forward lower budgets than the government – that's from 479 million to 602 million in lower funding. With the government's budget, we take further steps to strengthen sport, education, art and culture – for a society that stays together.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-179	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I would like to begin by agreeing very much with what Gunilla Carlsson said in her speech. This concerns the commitment and importance of education and culture at an early age and the importance of strong and functioning cultural schools. A main track in Gunilla Carlsson's speech was precisely the need and importance of education in art, culture and music from an early age up through the ages. We see on the ground how we choose to pilot the proposals of the cultural school inquiry into the business without this being anchored with the parliament and government today through a bill that has since won support from the parliamentary majority. There is no such anchorage yet. However, the Government's directive to the Cultural School Investigation starts to pilot into a cultural school which in many cases is in fact alienating itself from the educational purpose. We hear what culture school teachers say after culture school teachers. If you put your ear to the ground as a politician you can hear today that there is more talk about employment and leisure activities, at the expense of what Gunilla Carlsson mentioned and which is about being able to support orchestral music, symphonic orchestras with several with talented musicians in terms of Western art music. My question is: how do the Social Democrats and the government intend to act against the introduction of operational missions that are very far removed from the core tasks of cultural schools today?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-183	Mr President, I would like to Music and culture schools have a long historical tradition in Sweden. We have often pointed out that, thanks not least to our music and cultural schools, we have been successful in terms of music and music exports from this country. It is also about increasing the involvement and interest of children and young people in having the opportunity to play an instrument. The government chose to set up an investigation precisely to look at how we can get a national strategy for the music and culture school. Because we see that it looks very different. But that does not mean that we should say that all music and cultural schools should look exactly the same. We see what has happened in recent years, not least with El Sistema, which has entered Sweden and is now growing in several municipalities. There you talk more about working together in driving. You play together and so on. The more traditional music and culture school is perhaps more about individual knowledge. I think we need both. I think it is important that we give children and young people the opportunity to learn to play an instrument, the piano, individually but also with others. The cultural school inquiry just landed. It's for a referral. We'll see how we deal with the issues further. But as a social democrat, I think it's very important to have music and culture school and the opportunity for children and young people to take part in music, dance and theatre in different ways. The second part is: How do we ensure that we can stimulate, not least, knowledge in playing instruments that lead to the supply of our large orchestras? I don't think there's a solution. I believe that there are many and that it is a broad activity.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-188	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that it must look a little different in different directions and be flexible. It is about what has worked and what there has been a tradition of in the municipalities in question. But the problem today is that we see that the municipality after municipality starts to implement investigation directives from the Cultural School Investigation, which is not yet anchored in the Riksdag or the Government through proposals, for example. Then it'll be a problem. Some cultural school educators put it this way: Now we see the nail in the coffin for individual teaching and instrumental education. Now we see that using concepts in the Cultural School Investigation – for example, strengthening inclusion, strengthening integration, lowering thresholds and improving accessibility – is precisely a blur on the classical purpose, which has been a fundamental foundation among cultural schools, namely to be an educational activity in the field of art and culture. It's about teaching and shaping really good musicians. It is also about the joy and knowledge of young people and children and about strengthening performance and concentration opportunities and so on in other school education. It's somewhere about valuing skills. Cultural school educators and teachers express that they have a minimum of five-year education in music. They are well trained to teach not least individually. They see that the individual is making incredible progress in receiving individual instruction. Then they are probably worried that only because of the investigation, before there is a bill and a decision from the Riksdag, they implement completely new operating directives and turn it into more about employment than about education. The question is how the Social Democrats and the government want to use the support they have put forward at government level to strengthen that mission.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-192	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, but I guess it's amazing. We finally have a government that sees the municipal music and culture school. A mission has been assigned to an investigation. Now we are discussing the music and culture school, which has not been of great interest at national level. We have the bourgeois parties who say: No, but it is a municipal matter. That is not something we should care about at all. Now we are highlighting this. We're not saying we should run the municipal music and culture school. But we are talking about a national strategy, perhaps above all to refer to all the fantastic activities that exist but also to have a discussion on how it can be used in many different ways. One thing is the individual part. But we also now see how to use it as a social project. You can use the music and culture school to connect people. But one doesn't have to rule out the other. That's what's so amazing about art and culture. If we see the breadth and diversity instead of the narrow, more things develop. Now we're gonna have to handle the investigation the way it's gonna be handled. Some municipalities choose to have different orientations. Yes, it is the municipalities that can decide what they want the municipal music and culture school to look like. But I believe that we and the cultural schools benefit from having a national strategy where one can learn from one another. In particular, it is a question of raising political interest in these important issues.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-195	Mr President, I would like to If you don't look back before looking forward, you'll have to watch out, it's usually said. Therefore, before addressing the most important aspects of the budget proposal, I would like to stop and start with what actually happened in 2016. This is the first year of a completely red-green cultural policy, and we see how many positive pieces are now beginning to fall into place. If I start with the latest debate on the cultural school, it is the case that around 180 municipal music and cultural schools this year have been able to receive state grants to broaden and develop their activities. It's great fun to make field visits and hear how a traditional music school has now developed and become a cultural school that has been able to complement traditional instrument education with theatre and dance and thus involve more children and young people in cultural school activities. I now hope that we can take the next step on the basis of the Cultural School Investigation and ensure that all children and young people, regardless of the municipality of origin, have access to a cultural school. A very recent decision was when the Swedish Arts Council distributed grants within the Creative sites project just a few days ago. There are 27 places around the country where associations that have not previously been close to being able to apply and get support to develop a business now get it. The Red Green Government has clearly created the conditions for more people to participate in and be active in cultural activities. When we took the decision a year ago, there were some who were concerned that this would be aid that could only go to associations in the big cities. Flen, Jörn, Falköping, Bollnäs– I don't think these are places that we otherwise talk about as big cities. The red-green cultural policy has clearly created better conditions for cultural activities throughout the country, and we are moving on that line as we look forward to 2017. We are now strengthening the cultural cooperation model with more resources and increasing the funding. When the Culture Committee last year analysed how the cultural cooperation model has worked in practice, we saw two problems. One was that there were some ambiguities in the mission itself. There the government has been very fast-footed and goes forward with clarifications so that there is no doubt about what the cultural cooperation model is about. The second problem is what has also been raised in the past, i.e. that the state has previously abdicated from its financial responsibility in the cultural cooperation model and rolled over the whole responsibility of the regions. We are now resuming government responsibility, which is absolutely essential for the cultural cooperation model to continue to work. I am pleased that the Liberals as a party support the government's ambition and actually want to move forward even a little faster. At the same time, I am disappointed with the other parties that do not. When you hear Roland Utbult and the Christian Democrats you can think that the Christian Democrats have a higher level of ambition than the government in terms of regional cultural policy, but that is not actually the case. The Christian Democrats are almost able to reach the government's ambition level but not quite. The Moderates and the Center Party, on the other hand, are making cuts, and the Swedish Democrats, of course, are also making cuts to the cultural cooperation model. What is worse: the Swedish Democrats want us from the Riksdag to tell the regions what to do about it. The Swedish Democrats say that the regions should not engage in multiculturalist activities, whatever it is – rock music and jazz music perhaps. Film policy is of course the major cultural reform for 2017. We are now getting a comprehensive state film policy, and above all we are getting increased support for new Swedish film production. We may, of course, have different views on the funding model for film policy, but I find it very distressing when Per Lodenius from the Center Party brings forward a completely wrong mathematics that distorts what it is actually about in practice. What is also perplexing is that not all alliance parties welcome the fact that more parties can now be involved in designing film support in practice. All alliance parties should support this. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are here close to the government's ambition level, while the Center Party and the Liberals are responsible for extensive cuts. Liberals want to cut SEK 235 million on support for new Swedish film production, the Center Party as much as SEK 237 1⁄2 million. We can note that if the Liberals or the Center Party ruled cultural policy, 2017 would be a very gloomy year for Swedish film production. At all, we can see that the political map of cultural policy has been redesigned on the right. The Moderates have traditionally been the lowest cultural party, if you may say so. That is no longer the case. Now the Moderates are the alliance party closest to the government's ambition level. But not because the Moderates have become so much more generous – as we have heard, it is after all almost half a billion that separates the shadow budget of the Moderates from the government in the budget bill. Instead, the reason is that the other alliance parties seem to have completely lost interest in developing cultural policy. The Center Party wants to make cuts of over SEK 600 million. We heard Per Lodenius talking about three grants where the Center Party wants to increase the level of ambition, but at the same time, when we count it through, we see that the Center Party is proposing substantial cuts of 33 appropriations. All in all, it lands on a draft budget of SEK 600 million less than the government proposal. I have tried to get Per Lodenius to explain why the Center Party is going forward with cuts of this intensity but has not received any answers. Per Lodenius has referred to the fact that the Center Party certainly has fine writings in its cultural policy programme. It's great to have nice writings in a cultural policy programme, but it doesn't fund any activities. It is time for Per Lodenius to speak plainly: Why is the Center Party making these severe cuts? I would like to end by looking back again. I note that in 2014, the last year of the alliance government, the overall cultural policy was 12.7 billion, while in 2017 we are up to 14 1⁄2 billion. So we have very much lived up to the election promise to add another 1 billion to the culture. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture in its report.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-212	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to say that we have a very good order of debate in this House, which works most of the time. It means getting up and speaking for your politics and telling you what you want to do and what you want to change. After that, other parties have the opportunity to request a reply. I note that Niclas Malmberg has chosen a different approach. He does not ask for a reply when it is time to respond to the politics of the other parties. Instead, he gives a speech and devotes it to a bunch of lines. I find this regrettable, because it departs from the order and tone of discussion that we usually have in this House, which has worked and which I think most people here respect very well. I had written a number of questions that I had intended to put to Niclas Malmberg in connection with his speech. Nevertheless, one tries to predict and guess what a speech will look like. However, Niclas Malmberg did not mention any of this, because he did not talk about government policy. I therefore note that Niclas Malmberg does not follow the order of debate that we usually respect here, and I do not have any further questions for him.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-217	Mr President, I would like to It is fascinating to hear from the chairman of the Committee on Culture that he was trying to anticipate what I had to say and had prepared answers to it. Then when I don't say what he thinks I'm going to say, he's standing there with no answer. I have talked about the government's policy, both what we have done in 2016 and what we will do in 2017, and at the same time I have brought forward criticism of the parties that have a different policy. Now there's a full opportunity for everyone to replicate on me, and what I've said. We have all heard the speeches of the alliance parties. It's perfectly natural for me now to replicate them. If Olof Lavesson doesn't have any questions for me, I'll have to ask Olof Lavesson a question. I think it's great that you want to invest in Creative School even for high school. That's in itself great. You do not have any other alliance parties on it; I hope you can have it. However, I think it would be even better if you could invest in reinstating aesthetic subjects in upper secondary school. Unfortunately, the Alliance government removed the aesthetic subjects from upper secondary school with the exception of the aesthetic program. From the Center Party and the Liberals we have heard that they apologise for the alliance government's doing so, and we have heard promises from the Center and Liberals to stand up for a reintroduction. I would like to start by asking the Moderates: Is it not more important to reach all high school students with aesthetic activities and not just those who go to schools who engage in Creative School?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-222	Mr President, I would like to I note that Niclas Malmberg continues the line not to talk about the issue that we have on the table today, namely Category 17 and the proposals that the government has put forward in that area of expenditure. Instead, he chooses another area of expenditure. It is also a tactic that can be used. I will respond briefly to Niclas Malmberg. We're looking at the question right now. We will come back with information on how we stand about the aesthetic subjects. I hope that Niclas Malmberg will be informed shortly. Otherwise, Niclas Malmberg can register in the debate when this area of expenditure is discussed. Then those who work with the question can answer. Otherwise, Mr President, I will come back to the next line when the spokesperson of the Green Party, our Minister for Culture, will take part in the debate.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-225	Mr President, I would like to Politics is connected. I commented on some of our current budget proposals in the debate when I raised the issue of Creative School. But Creative School cannot be seen as just a part, but must be seen as a whole. There comes an aesthetic education at upper secondary school. It is perfectly natural to bring those issues together. From the perspective of the Green Party, I note that the aesthetic activity aimed at all high school students is, after all, more important than an activity that only a few students can benefit from. I am pleased that Olof Lavesson says that it does not completely dismiss the opportunity to support the reintroduction of aesthetic subjects at upper secondary school. There is openness on the part of the Moderates too. There could be a political majority for such a proposal in Parliament in the future.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-228	Mr President, I would like to In view of culture, ideologies are opposed to each other. In neo-liberal ideology, culture is a commodity that you want to be subject to market conditions. Then there are the Swedish Democrats who want to use culture to shape us into nationalists – or yes, us and us by the way. Anyway! The common thread in Swedish democrats' cultural policy is about customs, traditions, nature, food and habits. They want to set up Sweden Centres that will implement core values, with deep historical anchoring, which has characterized Swedish society. A wild guess is that they do not think about the trade union movement, the women's movement or the roots of popular education. The money should be taken from contemporary art, international cultural exchanges, peoples' education, especially from – somewhat ironic – the specific focus on activities such as Swedish education and help for newcomers to enter society. All support given on the basis of gender or ethnicity, for example to young people in the suburbs, immigrant associations and women's organisations, should of course be completely deleted. The Museums of World Culture will eventually suffer the same fate. The museum will receive less money and Skansen more. That's how it goes. Opera should be translated into Swedish. Films enabling strong national cohesion should be rewarded. While it is easy to reason on these suggestions, it would be good to refresh the memory of history lessons to understand that this is not funny. Culture is and must be an unbounded force in society, a changing force that contributes to people's awareness of themselves and society. Politics should provide the conditions for a living culture for all, but keep an arm's length away from its content. Culture is a crucial part of democracy, and artistic freedom is absolute. Mr President, I would like to When the Left Party presented our priority cultural issues a few years ago, it was about re-establishing free entry into museums and working to ensure that 1% of the state budget goes to culture. In the long run, we wanted to remove the tax on cultural school and start by setting a ceiling on the cost. We also wanted to improve the conditions for artists and other cultural creators. We wanted to increase the support for the assembly halls by SEK 45 million. Together with the government, we have been able to deliver free admission at state museums and an effort to reduce the fees for the cultural school. We are approaching the percentage target, and now the investment in the assembly halls is also delivered with SEK 30 million. A basic prerequisite for the development of culture is that there are good rooms for all kinds of activities. It can be about rehearsal rooms, meeting places, creative workshop, theatre scenes and much more. There is a need for premises both for arrangement and for own, free creation. In particular, access to good premises for children and young people must be promoted. It is a class issue to offer cultural experiences that do not cost and that can be experienced at close range. That is why we must invest in such environments in large cities, in suburbs and in smaller rural areas. It is about places with space for own creation, social community and guest performances of professionally performed cultural activities. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to take this opportunity to look a little forward. 中 Through a wide range for children and young people, more culture is created for more people. The regrowth of artistically active people also benefits. ..................................................... These are sentences in the cultural budget, and I can only agree. Regrowth is important, but at least as important is that there are conditions for the children and young people we attract into the artistic field to also be able to live on their art. As important as it is to open the cultural school, museums and more, it is through our efforts to show that art is also a professional area. It is important that professionally active cultural creators receive both a reasonable salary and have the same social benefits as other working people in society. Despite the fact that artists' conditions differ greatly from those of the self-employed or the permanently paid worker, the artist is assumed to function in a system adapted to the fixed monthly salary or the structure of small businesses. This often leads to artists being excluded from the usual insurance schemes with the right to unemployment benefit, pension or health insurance. One model for getting around these problems and which has improved freelancers' opportunities for livelihood and competence development between assignments is the third form of employment – the performing arts alliances. Free-lance actors, dancers and musicians can have a basic position there, and when they receive other assignments, they take leave of absence from the Alliance. These alliances offer further training and assistance in carrying out assignments, both to employees and to those who have not been able to be employed. This gives artists relative security, while allowing them to develop artistically and contribute to a richer cultural life for all. In 2015, the alliances had approximately 300 employees. We in the Left Party want to create a fourth artist alliance for visual and design artists. The visual artists are the group of cultural creators who have the worst economic conditions of all. This third form of employment should therefore be created, among other things, while strengthening the allocation to the alliances. That is something we will include in future negotiations for the next cultural budget.
i-vYbzKyYZwdd3EgqtmSFrA	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister Per Bolund and Minister Peter Eriksson. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-244	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. After all, the employment agency is a very poorly functioning authority. Over the past few weeks, we have received reports that millions of dollars flow into the sand when very poor procurements are made. We have received reports that employment intermediaries discriminate against foreign born people. In the last week, we have received reports that wage subsidies are used to distort competition, and the Public Employment Service is doing nothing about this. So my question to Ylva Johansson is really quite simple and straightforward: what does the Minister for Labour intend to do to link the grip on this authority?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-247	Mr President, I would like to It's a real problem description that Elisabeth Svantesson does. We took over an authority with very big problems, almost in crisis. The development is now being reversed within Arbetsförmedlingen. It is a large authority, but we have, for example, been informed through Statskontoret that it is on the right track. With regard to the proper use of wage subsidies, the government has proposed in the budget bill that the only wage subsidies that currently do not require collective agreement conditions will do so in future; this is the case for new start-up jobs. As regards the very upsetting information about the discriminatory behaviour of employment intermediaries, they relate preferably to the period up to 2014, when Elisabeth Svantesson was responsible for the agency. However, these are issues that I take very seriously, and I have ensured that the Director-General of the Employment Service also prioritises them.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-250	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is obviously a rather satisfied Minister of Labour we hear in this room. There's a lot of things that don't work. I know that ministers often want to talk about the years of alliance. Let me be clear that we set up a very large investigation to reform the Public Employment Service. It chose the minister to throw in the trash basket the first thing she did when she took office. This authority now requires direction; it cannot be given free rein. This has to work.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-252	Mr President, I would like to It is problematic to write your speech before you have heard the answer. I think I was quite clear about how seriously I view the major problems that the Public Employment Service has. But there is actually a change, and Statskontoret's review shows that the agency is on the right track. However, there is a need for a major reform of the Public Employment Service. We need to focus more on working towards employers' needs, working more with education and working more flexibly. However, more detailed regulation is not what the Authority needs.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-254	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to IT Minister Peter Eriksson. Access to fast broadband is obvious in the big city, but for Sweden's rural areas it looks different. In the budget negotiations with the government, the Left Party received SEK 850 million for broadband expansion in rural areas. This week the news reached us that the government found another SEK 150 million. This is very positive – a broadband billion to Sweden's rural areas. Today, the target for broadband expansion is 90% of the population by 2020. It works well, and the objective seems to be achieved. Despite errors and shortcomings, Sweden is a country where the expansion is rapid. But for the last 10% of the population, there is no political objective of access to broadband. That is why the Left Party has proposed a target of 100 per cent broadband, i.e. to the entire population, by 2025 at the latest. This has also been the subject of a joint Committee on Rural Development.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-259	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I think the objective we have today, that 90% of the population should have 100 megabits by 2020, is too weak. I intend to present a new broadband strategy shortly, in which we greatly increase our ambitions. I think that is absolutely necessary. In a situation where digitalisation transforms society to the extent that it does, the whole country must be involved in the change so that everyone, including those living in rural areas or in sparsely populated areas, has the opportunity to participate in the new society that is being created.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-261	Mr President, I would like to That sounds good to me! What I think is flawed is that it takes more than eight months to prepare the proposals of the L andrural Committee. I think that the IT Minister, together with the Rural Minister, must speed up, step up and make proposals when there is a consensus in Parliament that we need a new IT case. Then it's time to speed it up. We need a good planning horizon, so that all parties can see what the expansion will look like after 2020.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-262	Mr President, I would like to We are not preparing the proposals of the L andrural Committee; we are preparing a new broadband strategy for the whole of Sweden. It includes higher ambitions, and this applies to the whole of Sweden. Of course, this includes rural areas and sparsely populated areas as a very important part of the future. I hope we will be able to present the strategy before Christmas, but it depends on what happens these last days. However, we are very close to completing a new broadband strategy.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-263	Mr President, I would like to Anders Ygeman has now been Minister of the Interior for two years, and during that time the Swedish Democrats have been exercising to tighten the penalties for arms crimes so that, for example, those who are arrested with weapons in a public place should not be released on the same day, pending conviction. We have also proposed other measures to tackle illegal weapons and tighten the consequences in this context. Our motions in this area have been voted down by the government parties, but also by the alliance parties, which believe that current legislation in this area is sufficient. It is my view that in the country it is only the criminals who agree with the government that our laws have worked well as they are. On Sunday's Agenda, however, Mr Ygeman promised that new legislation would be in place, and my question is this: can the Minister of the Interior confirm in this House that this term of office intends to implement one of the proposals for strengthened arms crime legislation that the Swedish Democrats have been asking for years?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-267	Mr President, I would like to I do not have detailed knowledge of the Swedish Democrats' proposals, but I know that the Swedish Parliament recently doubled the penalties for arms crimes and serious weapons crimes, on the proposal of the moderated government. I know that this government, as late as today's government meeting, decided to double the penalties for the illegal handling of hand grenades and explosives. I also know that the aim of these legislative measures is, of course, that no one who is arrested for these crimes should be released into the street. If anyone, despite the demands for detention, were to be released into the street, our strategy is to bring about more rapid prosecution and on-call courts. As I understand it, there is also broad support for such a system here in Parliament.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-269	Mr President, I would like to Let us hope that the government will not content itself with doing nothing or doing too little, if you manage to do anything at all. As I said, the warning lights have blinked since day one under the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs, and now half the term of office has passed. Gunshots and murders have replaced each other. The police have asked for more stringent measures. The Swedish Democrats have put proposals on the table, but nothing has happened. I look forward to some action in this area so that politics begins to match reality.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-270	Mr President, I would like to As Adam Marttinen well knows, the government has submitted 72 proposals from the Ministry of Justice to the Riksdag since I became Minister of Interior. The Parliament has supported all these proposals, including some 20 proposals to tighten up the work against organised crime. I look forward to making further such proposals and hope that they will receive equally broad support in the Swedish Parliament.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-272	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Bolund. When the IMF submitted its report on Sweden, it pointed to important steps taken by the government to strengthen financial stability. It is about a Financial Stability Council, increased resources for Finansinspektionen and new regulations. At the same time, the IMF highlights household indebtedness as worrying. The Financial Supervisory Authority's stability report, which came today, points to the same risks that the IMF points to in its report on Sweden. According to Finansinspektionen's press release, these are clear challenges linked to the housing market and household indebtedness.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-276	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue that Niklas Karlsson highlights. Of course, it is crucial for Sweden's economic development that we can prevent future financial crises. That is why the government has been very active and has taken initiatives in this area. The last time it was about the amortisation requirement that Parliament decided this summer and which, according to Finansinspektionen's report, has already had a dampening effect on house price development and household indebtedness. This is gratifying. Of course, we will continue to follow developments. We have also taken the initiative for broad discussions in the Swedish parliament and received a broad consensus that Finansinspektionen will now be given a broad mandate for its work to reduce the risks associated with household indebtedness. It is legislation that we are now implementing. I am pleased that there has been a great deal of consensus and an opportunity for a great deal of agreement in politics.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-278	Mr President, I would like to I do not really have a supplementary question, but I am quite satisfied with the answer that the Government has given. I note that it is important to press for consensus, and not just across political blocs. It is also important that there is a good discussion between the government and the Riksdag's Finance Committee, so that these developments are followed closely.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-280	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the importance of a broad consensus and continuity of terms of office on these issues. Looking back a few years, many measures have been taken, such as increased capital adequacy requirements for Swedish banks, mortgage floors and amortisation requirements. This is a process that we want to continue with and in dialogue with the Swedish Parliament.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-281	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ylva Johansson about what is happening to phase 3. We have talked about it before, but I will come back to it. The Red-Green Government already said in 2014 that it will work to eliminate the employment phase that the Alliance introduced and replace it with trainee jobs and additional services in the welfare sector. But there have not been many such jobs. The Employment Service had a forecast of 28 000 remaining in the employment phase in October, but that is only 14 000. We understand that the government is now doing a quick decommission. Now, instead, these people go home in passivity. They don't get any activities. They're called internal placements, which means they're sitting at home waiting. Employment services do not give priority to this group. It is people who are long-term unemployed and who do not receive support and help. My question to the Government is: Was this how you intended to support the long-term unemployed – that they should sit at home in passivity and isolation?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-285	Mr President, I would like to Of course, sitting at home doesn't help anyone. It is an active labour market policy that is needed. Compared to the previous government, the government has made a change. Phase 3 was introduced because those placed there would no longer have access to active measures from the Employment Service but would only have one job. I think it is a dead end. We must never give up on one person who can come back to work. Therefore, this government has changed the regulatory framework, so that those who were previously in phase 3 now have access to the entire arsenal of the Arbetsförmedlingen's efforts. We have also made targeted efforts, especially for those people who need major training efforts. They are given the opportunity to study for one year while maintaining remuneration. We are also doing a great deal of work in getting other contributions, such as extra services, which are now emerging at a rather good pace.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-288	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure Ylva Johansson wants to do something for the long-term unemployed. But what we're seeing in reality-- for example, I've been calling the social companies that have helped these people get into activity and community-- is that these people are at home today alone in isolation and in passivity. Blåeld, as you know, has received an agreement with Arbetsförmedlingen regarding 80 seats. They've been instructed. People today sit at home and are called internally placed. Is it really in this way that the Minister thinks of the future of these people?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-291	Mr President, I would like to I know that Mrs Pethrus has a great, honest and good commitment to work integration social enterprises, for which I have great respect. It is my view that the Employment Service must do more when it comes to cooperating with employment-integrated social enterprises. It is a very important player, which today is not fully exploited in view of the capacity and potential of this sector, not least in terms of helping the long-term unemployed back to work.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-293	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. The large number of shootings have made great use of resources for the police. In Malmö it now takes 372 days from a police report until the prosecutor can decide on the case. It is clear that a large number of investigators are missing in Malmö. The police organization and the police chiefs seem to have lost control. About this chaotic and unacceptable state, the Chief Prosecutor in Malmö also testifies in an interview in Sydsvenskan this week. Therefore, I would like to ask Anders Ygeman the following question: Will the government ensure that the police in Malmö receive the resources and investigators necessary to ensure that it does not take over a year to investigate crimes of this nature?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-297	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is an unreasonable time, as Anders Hansson expresses. You can compare the time with the corresponding investigation times in Gothenburg and Stockholm, which are significantly lower. It is now up to the police in the region to reduce these times vigorously. Support has been sought and received from other police regions, and the government has sent over SEK 2 billion to the police over the next few years in order to hire more police officers and more civil investigators. Already this year, more than 600 civilian investigators have been employed, which should be able to alleviate the pressure significantly both in the South Region and in other police regions.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-299	Mr President, I would like to It'll be pushed to money in the near future, but it's now that we have the big hump with investigations that take time. Most police officers and, not least, all residents of Malmö and Skåne are waiting for results. The government has been saying for about two years that this issue should be followed. The Home Secretary has previously said that the results of the investigation will be reversed before the New Year – that's in about 30 days. Will the Minister of the Interior keep his word and take decisive action if we do not see improved results for the New Year?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-301	Mr President, I would like to Yes, of course I will. It is not an acceptable investigation period that Anders Hansson expresses. There must be an improvement, and investigation times must be reduced. We now see in a number of counties that investigation times have decreased, but not in Malmö. Then action must be taken by the police there.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-304	Mr President, I would like to 3.6 million SEK is the average difference in income during a working life between women and men in Sweden. Moreover, according to statistics from the World Economic Forum 2015, the pay gap between women and men is decreasing very slowly in Sweden compared to both comparable countries and other countries that we normally do not compare with in terms of gender equality statistics. In Iceland it falls by 10 percentage points, in Sweden by only 1 percentage point. More obviously needs to be done to achieve equal pay.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-306	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important issue, and it is a very shocking fact that women earn so much less money than men over a life cycle. It is a very priority for the government. Wage formation is not the government's issue, but there are many things that affect wages and that the government can influence. One such thing is discrimination in the labour market. Therefore, the Government has put forward proposals for annual pay surveys and demands on all employers for active action against discrimination. Women are over-represented in precarious fixed-term contracts. This is why the Government has put forward proposals – and the Riksdag has decided – for new legislation to prevent the stacking of fixed-term contracts. Instead, they are transferred to permanent employment. How long you're at work matters a lot. For this reason, the Government has proposed a more even parental responsibility for the abolition of child custody allowance and a further quota month in parental insurance. The government is also prepared to take further action.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-311	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the active policy of the government in many areas to tackle the problems of inequality. The letter which presented the government's new gender equality policy two weeks ago also announced an action plan for equal pay. What further measures does the government intend to present in the Action Plan, and how quickly can we hope that it will be in place?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-312	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that the content of the action plan comes when the action plan is ready, but let me point out a few areas. For example, women are sick more than men, that is, less at work, which affects wage developments. I believe that there is more to be done when it comes to achieving a more equal set-aside and a more equal distribution of family and children's responsibilities. There is also more to do when it comes to the fact that women to a large extent work in the public sector. My colleague Ardalan Shekarabi is working hard to get these professions upgraded – let the professionals be professionals – so that you can develop in your profession.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-315	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals have a question for Minister Anders Ygeman. Today there was another measurement, this time of confidence in the Swedish police – which unfortunately falls. It's very troubling. The police are one of the most basic and important authorities in our democracy. It is also not just confidence in the police that is falling; since the office of the Minister for Home Affairs, we have had fewer police officers. We have fewer police officers in external service, and the police have moved further and further away from the citizens.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-318	Mr President, I would like to Swedish police have been and are in a strained situation. At the initiative of Roger Haddad's government, the largest reorganisation was ever made, which all parties in the Swedish Parliament supported. We have an increased threat of terrorism, the greatest reception of asylum since the Second World War and the first border control in 20 years. In the light of these concerted efforts, it is no wonder that the writers who have been and confidence has fallen somewhat. At the same time, however, I note that confidence in the police is still high and that it is significantly higher than for many other authorities.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-319	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Minister for Home Affairs and the Government lack crisis insight into Swedish police. We've had fewer police officers since the government took office. There are fewer police close to the citizens. Although today's measurement is one of several measurements, it shows that only 1 per cent have confidence in the chief police officer. I regret that the government is passive on this issue. Ygeman still believes that the chief of police will reverse developments in four to six weeks?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-320	Mr President, I would like to It is perhaps time to remind Roger Haddad that we have more police employees in Sweden than ever and that we spend more money on the police than any government where the Liberals, formerly the People's Party, have ever been a member. It is, of course, my hope that this will lead to better results.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-321	Mr President, I would like to The crisis in the Swedish housing market is rampant and spills over into virtually all other areas of society. It affects all other parts of Sweden, and above all it affects more people living in Sweden. That is why it is quite remarkable, Mr President, that despite the worst crisis in 50 years on the Swedish housing market, no government has since the 1970s delivered so few proposals to make it easier to build housing in Sweden as the current one. My simple question to the Minister for Housing Peter Eriksson is: Why do you not deliver more proposals to increase housing construction in Sweden? Any simplification could have been achieved in Parliament, even tomorrow, if only the will and the ability had existed. Why do they not deliver, and why do they fail those municipalities that are now facing enormous challenges in the area of housing?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. It may be appropriate to tell those who do not seem to know that we are now producing more housing than we have done in decades – since the days of the million-dollar programme. Sweden works. When I took office six months ago, a lot of people said that we can't produce more than 40,000 homes a year. The forecast right now is 64 000 started this year and 67 000 started next year. We have a broader housing policy than Sweden has had in decades. Three weeks after I took office, we set up a 22-point programme which the Minister of Finance and I presented and which involves a wide range of changes and simplifications. They speed up the decision-making process on building permits and enable more to be built. We now have 6 billion in budget each year to invest more and invest more in Swedish construction. It is a little surprising that not everyone has discovered it.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-325	Mr President, I would like to It is correct that a great deal is being built in Sweden now, but it is also an effect of the simplification journey the Alliance carried out during eight years. Of course, it is not enough, but it must be much better. But it is still a distressing fact that the government is delivering too few proposals. Mr Ygeman was able to present 74 proposals, and in the area of housing policy we have had to settle for less than a tenth of it. That is not acceptable, Mr President, and especially not in the situation that Sweden is in right now.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-326	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have a broader and stronger housing policy in Sweden than in many decades. In addition, and I am more concerned about this, the opposition – not least the Moderates – is putting forward a policy that would remove a large part of the efforts now being made, reduce housing production in Sweden and increase housing shortages. It would create even more imbalances in the housing market, raise the prices of households and villas, and create even more risks in the national economy. I find it surprising that you dare to do so, Mats Green.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-328	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. We are many small, and sometimes poor, municipalities that in recent years have taken a great responsibility when historically many people have sought protection in our country. We are extremely proud of the work that staff, and often civil society too, have done. Now that even sparsely populated municipalities have a housing shortage, refugees who have rooted in our municipalities and received a residence permit can unfortunately not stay, because there are simply no vacant apartments. They are rented many times by the Finnish Immigration Service. My first question to Minister Johansson is therefore whether the government can consider giving the Migration Agency the task of handing over apartments to municipalities so that those who have been granted a residence permit can remain. The second question concerns the rich moderate-governed municipalities which now declare that they do not intend to comply with the instruction law. Is the government going to impose some kind of sanctions on this?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-331	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say a big thank you to the municipalities that Åsa Eriksson here brings up. Without their priceless efforts, we would not have made the great effort that Sweden had put into last autumn, when we had a huge reception of refugees. There is still a great deal of effort. I would like to thank all the municipalities that have stood up. The Finnish Immigration Service now leaves many of its temporary accommodations and then contacts the municipalities to find out if they are interested in taking over the contract. Precisely what accommodation the Migration Agency leaves will be a matter for the Migration Agency to decide for itself, but it will in any case be fewer temporary accommodations under the auspices of the Migration Agency. When it comes to the instruction law, the order is such that the government makes proposals, the parliament makes laws and courts examine. There is not – as some municipalities seem to believe – any authority that you can turn to in the hope that you will not have to comply with the law.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-334	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult today with housing all over Sweden, regardless of whether you are a small or large municipality and whether it is red or blue rule. There we all sit, somehow, in the same boat. What surprises me is that there are now municipalities that do not even try. Does the government have any ideas on what to do to get all municipalities to make an effort and try to comply with the instructions?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-335	Mr President, I would like to The situation is strained in all the municipalities of the country. Almost all municipalities have a housing shortage. This is a major challenge, and the government is making extensive efforts to help municipalities in the area of housing construction, regulatory simplification and much more. I would also like to say that it is not freely chosen work to comply with laws. This is something that all municipalities have to do, and it is extremely important for all municipalities to stand up. The Government will come back with the necessary proposals to ensure that all municipalities comply with the Instructions Act, which must be complied with just like all other laws.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-338	Mr President, I would like to Last spring – I think it was 14 April – we in this House took a joint decision. All parties agreed that the requirement for a so-called dance permit should be abolished. In doing so, the government was asked to make the necessary changes to the law in order to do so. The background was that there were a large number of individual movements from several years that addressed this particular issue. I think the movements came from almost all parliamentary parties. As we in the Alliance pushed for a clean-up of police duties, something we also received an announcement about, we also raised the issue of dance status. When you talk to people affected, there seems to be some misunderstanding about this. Many seem to believe that the requirement for a dance permit was abolished when we made this decision, but that is not the case. The government must prepare for this change. I was a little surprised not to find anything about this in the budget or the list of proposals. My question goes to the responsible minister, Anders Ygeman. What's going on?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-342	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Hedin for the question. The clean-up work in the police is progressing. We have put forward a number of concrete proposals. The preparation of dance permits may not have been the most laborious for the police. But, nevertheless, preparation is ongoing. The proposal will be examined, and then we will return to Parliament, in accordance with Parliament's wishes.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-344	Mr President, I would like to People will contact me, and certainly also the Minister for the Interior, and tell me how they have spent hours in line to reach the police. The results of the investigation speak clearly, and they are not beautiful sounds. The police themselves testify to major problems with the management culture. Just everyone is talking about resource scarcity. Would it not be a good idea, then, to ensure as quickly as possible that the police do not have tasks like deciding whether or not to let people dance, so that the police can focus on getting criminals behind bars? Is there a timetable for the work?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-346	Mr President, I would like to The answer to Johan Hedin's somewhat leading question is of course: yes! But we have chosen to give priority in this work to the issues that are most burdensome for the police. So we began by freeing the police from animal husbandry duties. We went on to free the police from transport and hands-on tasks, which have taken up a significant part of the police's time. Fortunately, the treatment of dance conditions does not take a particularly large part of the police's time.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-347	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Housing. Since 1 March, the Government has forced municipalities to accept a certain proportion of persons with a residence permit, according to a quota distributed over the country. This is based on the immigration policy pursued by the government. The responsibility for solving the housing situation is transferred to the municipalities. There, the government does not stand up at all. The echo reported the other day that 57 per cent of those who need housing have received accommodation, but the rest have not received it. The answer to the municipalities that do not organise housing is to impose sanctions.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-350	Mr President, I would like to I'm responsible for the instruction law. There is nowhere else to live in Sweden than in a municipality. For many years we have had an extremely uneven distribution of new arrivals, where some municipalities have taken enormous responsibility. Södertälje Municipality became known when more Iraqis were received than the United States had. This government wants an equal and solidarity-based responsibility for accepting new arrivals and giving people who are granted a residence permit an opportunity to start their new life in Sweden. Fortunately, the new legislation has received broad support in the Swedish Parliament. I believe that this is due to the recognition that, on the one hand, we in the European Union must share responsibility so that all the Member States of the European Union take their share of responsibility for refugees and their reception, and, on the other hand, that all municipalities in Sweden must take their share of responsibility for giving new Swedes a chance to start their new life in Sweden.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-354	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Sweden had a situation last year with an extremely large number of asylum seekers. The government introduced, extremely late, border controls. Isn't it time the government woke up and abolished the EBO law? This would counteract the overcrowding that we see out in the municipalities and the difficulty for the municipalities to arrange housing. Instead, it was possible to ensure that the new arrivals remain at the Finnish Immigration Service's accommodation until there are accommodations for them in the municipalities.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-356	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if I understand the honourable Member correctly. Is the proposal that people should never be allowed to live in Sweden without living forever at the Migration Agency's facility housing, in some kind of ghetto? Would that be a good development for Sweden? Would it lead to better opportunities to build a strong and secure country? No, I don't think so. People who are granted a residence permit must be given a chance to start a new life and contribute to Sweden's development.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-358	Mr President, I would like to My question is of a general political nature, and I turn to Ylva Johansson. In September, my colleague Olof Lavesson asked Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke how she views Parliament's decision-making power and the democratic process here. Recently, we have been told that the responsible investigator for the Cultural School Investigation refuses to come to Parliament's Culture Committee to present the investigation's proposals. The other week, the Minister for Culture and Democracy announced that the Government does not intend to await the views of the relevant consultation bodies in connection with the Media investigation. All you gotta do is honk and drive! My question to the Government is: How does the Minister view the influence of the Riksdag, and how does the Minister view the democratic process of preparation of the government's work?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-363	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that unfortunately I do not have detailed knowledge of the investigator of cultural schools and the communication between that person and the Riksdag. But in general it is of course desirable that investigations work widely, sometimes with reference groups from different political parties or with the task of consulting with other actors in society. When it comes to preparation in the Government Office, it is regulated in the Constitution. We have an obligation to prepare. It often upsets Members of Parliament when ministers say that the issue is being prepared, and sometimes they think it takes a very long time. We have a rather slow legislative process compared with other countries. If you feel that the government does not meet the criteria, there is an opportunity to review the government, and it is the Riksdag that does so through the Constitutional Committee.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-366	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I have a supplementary question. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has appointed Berit Högman to lead the talks with the parties of the Riksdag in connection with the Media Investigation. Then my question is: What mandate does she actually have from the government, and what significance will the views of the parliamentary parties have for the government's continued preparation?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-368	Mr President, I would like to I am sorry, but these are detailed knowledge that I do not have, so I cannot answer that today.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-370	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Eriksson. It has now been discussed several times during this Question Time about the importance of more housing in Sweden and a better housing market. I think it's incredibly funny that we're actually getting more housing in this country now, that it's being built like never before. But we have some injustices in the housing market. Ownership is the most advantageous form of lease and municipal rental right is the most disadvantaged form of lease, as it stands today. The owner of the dwelling is entitled to interest deductions and deductions for ROT services and has a right to preferential taxation. The tenant has nothing. In addition, those who live in municipal rental law pay a little extra tax by the municipalities levying profits from the companies – profits that come from tenants' rents. In addition, some would like to introduce market rents.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-374	Mr President, I would like to I think one of the major problems in the Swedish housing market is that we have too little rental housing today. We need to build a lot more. This is also the reason why the government has taken some initiatives, on the one hand, for investment aid to build more rental housing at reasonable prices and on the other hand for setting up an investigation to review the system of rental payments in the case of rentals. Our policy, however, does not mean any plans to switch to market rents. There are some in the opposition who talk a lot about it, but in the government we do not have any such proposals at all. On the contrary, I think we need to improve the system we have today, which is a more regulated system.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-376	Mr President, I would like to The question also concerned the dividends paid by the municipal companies. One could actually improve the possibility of building cheap rentals if people can afford to move to when, for example, they are looking for a job or need a home to move away from home, instead of collecting profits that go to the municipalities and into the municipal budgets.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-377	Mr President, I would like to There are several different possibilities for municipalities to make it easier to both build and build cheaper rental apartments. One way, of course, is not to withdraw the money from the housing companies but to ensure that it is used to build new homes and renovate them. Seen in the rearview mirror, it would have been very good if you had thought so for a long time in Stockholm, for example, because then we would have had much better with rental housing.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-380	Mr President, I would like to Flight tax, financial tax, mileage tax, entrepreneurial tax – the list of government tax increases can be both long and worrying. As far as the tax on tobacco and alcohol is concerned, it is used to limit its use. At the same time, we know that four out of five jobs are being created in small businesses. Against this background, it is strange that the government so clearly chooses to tax those who create jobs.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-382	Mr President, I would like to It is always interesting to see the almost unhealthy fixation of Moderates on tax policy as both the solution to all problems and obstacles to any positive development. For eight years we tried a policy that was strongly marked by large unfunded tax cuts and privatisations. It was a policy that failed, especially in terms of jobs. That was one of the reasons why that government was not allowed to continue. A new government was elected just because you failed in your jobs. We'll do better with the jobs. Jobs are growing and unemployment is falling. We have a record number of vacancies in Sweden right now. Obviously, the effect of government policies is such that jobs grow.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-385	Mr President, I would like to I note that my question was not answered at all. It is strange because Prime Minister Löfven has said that he should always ask the ministers how much work the reforms create. The government's goal is for Sweden to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. How does the government intend to achieve this goal by raising taxes for those who create jobs?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-387	Mr President, I would like to It is always a delicate task to balance which taxes and how high taxes provide the best balance. It is not, of course, a wish to have zero tax revenue, because then you have no money that you can invest in infrastructure, education, housing and much more that is necessary for job growth. At the same time, we cannot, of course, have as much tax as we want, but it can also have negative consequences. Obviously, the government's balance is such that jobs grow.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-390	Mr President, I would like to It has been a little more than a year since the terrible acts of terror took place in Paris. It was a coordinated attack with shootings and explosions in six different places in the city. One of the sites of the attacks we particularly remember and it is the concert hall Bataclan, known for being the progressive heart of Paris. Yesterday's mission review could reveal the connections of the attacks to Sweden. Access to a membership register from the terror organization Daish's own security service shows the presence of different circles in Sweden. Some of the people the programme hangs out are not condemned, and it is important that we do not act as the judiciary either. However, the programme points out that there are grounds for funding and recruitment in Sweden.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-393	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The government has developed a new national strategy against terrorism. After its development, the government made an agreement with the bourgeois parties in the Riksdag on 21 concrete measures against terrorism, including against the financing and recruitment of terrorism. I would like to take this opportunity to praise the opposition in Parliament for contributing to the effective fight against terrorism, because I believe that the proposals were both better and more rapid than if we had not received the support we received from the bourgeois opposition. There is a wide range of measures that we are now working on. We have stopped the misuse of Swedish passports, we have criminalised terrorist war trips and we have given special government missions in terms of funding. At the government meeting today, we decided to double the penalties for the illegal handling of hand grenades. There will soon be a number of other proposals that will become reality precisely to ensure this work.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-397	Mr President, I would like to As important as combating and criminalising terrorism is to ask why? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What attracts young people to ideologies about overthrowing the open and democratic society in which we live? The ideology of extremists is based on murdering the people who stand up for the diversity society. We can see this in their actions in Iraq and Syria with attacks on Christians, Kurds and other minorities, but also in the far right ideology here in Sweden.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-400	Mr President, I would like to Prevention is one of the bones of the government's new national anti-terrorism strategy, for which we have also received broad support in the Riksdag. We have a national coordinator for democracy and against violent extremism. We have coordinators in all Swedish municipalities and action plans in most municipalities. We have given a number of government missions to combat recruitment to these organisations and to combat the distorted world view expressed by these organisations. It is also a question of preventing financial support for organisations.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-403	Mr President, I would like to Several times we have heard Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson say that all new arrivals will be in work within two years in the start-up phase. Later it has changed to being in employment or education within two years. The statistics show that only 27 per cent have some form of job, and usually with large wage subsidies. Only 5% attend regular education and unemployment is over 22%. Next year the challenge will be even greater as the number in the start-up phase increases from 65 000 to 80 000.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-406	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue raised by Katarina Brännström. The establishment period is normally two years. When I took office, 27 percent were in employment or studies after that two-year period. It's awfully bad. It is reasonable to aim to normally get into work or education during the period of establishment that the state, in rather broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament, has set up. This is, of course, a major challenge, especially as the number of start-ups is increasing sharply. Nevertheless, we have seen an improvement. Last year we were up to 31%, against 27%, and I expect it to increase in this year as well. My focus with the work is to step by step improve so that more and more people can get into work or education during the start-up period. An important part of succeeding in this is the reform of the establishment reform that the government is working on and that is currently being consulted.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I share the Minister's view on cases. It is clear that we must aim to get more people to work. The government has the responsibility and the power to do something about it, and the problems are growing. More and more people are entering the labour market, which is not working very well. 80 000 will be in the start-up phase, and we are now in half time. Where are the new reforms from the government in order to achieve the goals that have been set?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-414	Mr President, I would like to An important part is to change and modernise the establishment reform. The proposal that the government has sent out for a referral, which I expect to come back to Parliament with shortly, is about being able to make clearer demands on new arrivals. It's supposed to be the same demands we're making on all the other unemployed. You should have access to and be able to control the efforts for new arrivals in the same way as you make demands and can control the efforts of all other unemployed. Mr President, I would like to The fact that new arrivals get jobs with wage subsidies is not a failure, but just what wage subsidies are for. They are meant to help people who are far from the labour market to get their first job in Sweden. We'll continue to do that.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-417	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Per Bolund. Misleading marketing means that consumers are tricked into contracts that are presented as more advantageous than they then prove to be. This can be pure fraud, where the consumer is tricked into a very disadvantageous agreement that is difficult or impossible to get out of. There are examples where the packaging is twice as large as the contents. There are also more serious examples where this can have far-reaching consequences for the consumer. It can be subscriptions where you become tied for a long time at a high cost and where the high cost and long binding time have not been apparent. There are examples where it has been said that you should take the talk with the bank, i.e. make agreements with the bank regarding mortgages, which you do not have the authority to do at all.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-421	Mr President, I would like to I thank Hillevi Larsson for an important question. We are all consumers and thus know how difficult it can be to act in sometimes very complex markets. Consumer markets are also rapidly changing, not least due to digitalisation and globalisation. This means that the government must have an active consumer policy and constantly come up with new measures to deal with the problems faced by consumers. For example, we have given new sanctions to the Consumer Ombudsman. Now you can go in immediately and stop misleading marketing campaigns instead of having to go to court, as in the past, and wait for a court ruling. After all, it could take several years, and there was a risk that the campaign was over and that consumers were already in trouble. We work consistently to improve consumer protection in all different areas. We also provide extra money to the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Consumer Ombudsman to enable them to carry out active work. We also do this to other authorities that have to follow the existing consumer markets. This is a very important and priority area for the government.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-426	Mr President, I would like to It is important to provide the authorities with the tools and resources to combat this. The consumer is the weaker party, and the whole responsibility cannot be placed on the consumer. This person may not always know his rights. Of course, consumer information is also important. It is important that you can go in directly and stop misleading advertising, because, as I said, court proceedings can take months or years. It is also an important way to show that this is not a good way to make money.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-428	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that this is an important area and that the authorities must both have the rules they need to be able to go to action and the resources they need. That is why we have added additional resources to the budget on Parliament's table for the Consumer Ombudsman and the Swedish Consumer Agency. In addition, we have for a number of years strengthened the budget for Finansinspektionen, which has to comply with consumer protection in the financial markets. We will continue to do this to ensure that Swedes have a high level of consumer protection.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-432	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to the Minister for Finance and the Deputy Minister for Finance. The Government Declaration states, among other things, that Sweden will stick together and that Sweden will develop through community building and cooperation. If the government is serious about Sweden staying together even geographically, how are the plans for kilometer tax, air tax and increased tax on fuel compatible with a policy for the whole of Sweden and for the companies and consumers and the public service that are also far from the metropolitan area?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-435	Mr President, I would like to We will of course have well-functioning communities throughout Sweden, and it will be possible to live and work throughout Sweden. That is why the government has an active regional policy and is taking action. Not least in the area of transport, where we have plans to significantly increase efforts to build infrastructure throughout Sweden. It is wrong to look at only part of economic policy. You have to look at the bigger picture. It is probably a wrong conclusion to believe that, for example, a flight tax must have negative consequences. The study, which has just arrived, notes that the regional policy implications would be small, and they can also be met with measures. It is also dangerous to think that one can stand still and not take action to meet the climate challenge that we clearly see, for example in the form of 20 degrees warmer temperature than normal in the Arctic and rapidly melting polar ices. I believe that the Swedish people expect a government to come up with an active policy to face this. To stand and watch passively is not acceptable.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-439	Mr President, I would like to Tax from a distance hits businesses and consumers who live far away from metropolitan areas. What analysis does the Minister make of this, i.e. tax at a distance?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-440	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the concept is directly wrong. That is not what this is about, but what the Riksdag has supported in broad agreement, namely that all modes of transport should bear the costs they cause for society in terms of local environmental impact but also the impact on global climate change. We all know that there are different forms of mileage tax in a large number of countries around Europe and the world. They have not had the kind of consequences that Lotta Finstorp points out. I think it is early to draw conclusions even now, before the investigation has even come up with a proposal. Let's wait and do analyses later.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-444	Mr President, I would like to My question is of a general political nature and goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. We live in a troubled world where we can find, among other things, that a lot of worrying things and trends are appearing. The last time, it was Turkey's President Erdo中an, who has begun to question the peace of Lausanne. This agreement was signed in July 1923, setting out Turkey's modern borders. The fact that both the President of Turkey and, most recently, the country's Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşo中lu question the Lausanne agreement is like dynamite for the climate in the region. What is the position and position of the Swedish Government in this?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-448	Mr President, I would like to It is right that Sotiris Delis points out that there are many worrying signs in our near world that the government has reason to follow very closely. Although there are many signs where you have reason to raise a finger of warning and become increasingly anxious, it is important to take note of the good relationships that also exist. I do not have the competence to answer Mr Sotiris's current question in concrete terms. However, I would like to say that the government has relations, but is concerned about developments in Turkey, and that we are following developments very closely.
i-3YVkYRWwB2E4qgmb73iuYU	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have a wish, namely that Sweden, which is now in the UN Security Council, will use its position and try to influence. There are many who are concerned about the provocations of the Turkish Government and the leadership towards their neighbours.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-452	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, Sweden is following developments in Turkey closely, and there are several worrying signs. On 1 January, we are entering the UN Security Council, and that, of course, represents a very large and broader responsibility in foreign policy. Sweden looks forward to taking this great responsibility.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-454	Mr President, I would like to Only 50 of the 290 municipalities in the country are forecast to be clear on the guide rates imposed by the new instruction law. Gymnasiums, temporary barracks and even hotel rooms have started to be booked up to do this. These are hardly good and long-term solutions. Only 1 000 out of 2 500 of the quota received by the City of Stockholm has been able to place so far, now in December. Social Democratically governed Mölndal has said that they cannot accept more new arrivals now. Does Ylva Johansson think that it is honest to point out some individual moderate-governed municipalities and the lack of will when this is a nationwide problem?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-457	Mr President, I would like to Hanif Bali obviously has knowledge that I don't have. I do not know that there are any forecasts of reception in the municipalities, but it is exciting that Hanif Bali has access to them. I also do not know where Hanif Bali has been given that I should have pointed out some particular moderate-led municipalities. I see a situation where we have a very large housing shortage in almost the whole of Sweden and an unusually large reception of many new arrivals who have been granted a residence permit. It is a very difficult situation in almost all municipalities when it comes to coping with this. This is a very great effort for Sweden. At this point, the government must do everything to help the municipalities. We also do so through many efforts in housing construction. Yesterday I presented proposals in which the government provides some relief at the moment to facilitate the instructions to be made this year. You will have longer time to receive, and we will lower the county figures for 2017 to facilitate the reception of the municipalities.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-460	Mr President, I would like to To shoot problems in front of you that the government has now opened up to do is, one might say, a very temporary solution. The measures presented by the government to bring about housing construction are far from sufficient. All experts admit that. If it is the case that we should not point out individual municipalities or individual lack of will, the question is: What else is the government ready to do? Is the government ready for the actions needed to bring about housing construction?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-463	Mr President, I would like to Clearly, the government is doing what is necessary to bring about housing construction. We have not had such building of apartments since the days of the million-dollar programme as we have at the moment. The rate of increase is enormous and beats all previous forecasts, as the Minister of Housing has just shown. The fact that this record building is not enough is because we have had far too low construction for many years. It takes time to build, but government policies deliver on housing construction.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-465	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. Time and again we get testimony and reports that people who are not supposed to do so receive subsidies from the state. This undermines the confidence of tax payers and beneficiaries. I am thinking of Islamists and violent groups.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-468	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of clarity, I shall say that this falls under the responsibility of Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and is part of the joint deal with the Moderates, Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats that I was involved in meeting. Following the joint agreement, the Minister for Culture and Democracy has taken a number of different measures. Among other things, she has appointed a special investigator to review all forms of grants, not only in the state but also in other parts of the public sector, to ensure that a crown of our common tax funds does not go to organisations that do not stand up for the common democratic values.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-470	We thank the ministers and the Members who have attended today's Question Time, which is now closed.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-471	Mr President, I would like to Rossana Dinamarca devoted a large part of her speech to criticising the Swedish democrats' movement in the field of expenditure in the field of culture. It was phrased that if one gets to guess wildly everyone will become nationalists, as if we had had some sort of proposal to strangle freedom of opinion or the like. It can be dangerous to guess wildly, because then it happens that you land wrong. That is exactly what Rossana Dinamarca did when she felt that the Swedish Democrats wanted to strangle all forms of support for the various world culture museums. We do not do that, either to the East Asian, to the Ethnographic, to the Mediterranean Museum or to others. In the long term, however, we want to see the funding for the Museum of World Culture being strangled in Gothenburg, but it is only one of the museums. It has also received a very high level of criticism against itself over the years. Rossana Dinamarca also said that the Royal Opera would only be allowed to set up opera in Swedish if the Swedish Democrats could prevail, which is completely without foundation in reality. We were also told that the Moderna Museet would receive less money with our proposal, which is no longer in line with reality when we leave the grant unchanged this year. It can be dangerous to guess wildly. On the contrary, the Swedish Democrats allow cultural policy to play a uniquely strong role in our draft state budget, as we demonstrated last autumn in our budget presentation when we thought that the ability of culture to get people to communicate and connect a split country is invaluable. The Left, on the other hand, simply lacks integrity in its argumentation. I would therefore like to ask the Left Party: Is there a lack of a Swedish culture and a Swedish cultural heritage to protect, nurture and show?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-477	Mr President, I would like to SD wants to decide which art to see, which music to listen to and which newspapers to read. There's nothing here. Just read and listen to various Members. In this Chamber a few years ago your predecessor Margareta Larsson wanted to imprison artists like Carolina Falkholt for her art. There's nothing here. It's totally authentic. You want to strangle the pre-support and speak in the anti-Semitic spirit of a conspiracy. There's nothing here. I thought Olof Lavesson made it quite clear what you stand for. It's a tapering, and you don't even understand what culture is and how culture is formed. Culture is not static; it is something formed by all people living in a society. That's also how I want culture to be shaped for the future. On the contrary, you want to steer culture very hard. This was seen not least during your last municipal and county council days, when there were proposals to stop sponsoring destructive cultural expressions and where they wanted stronger governance of public culture. It's not a hit, it's what SD's cultural policy looks like. You want us to become nationalists.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-480	Mr President, I would like to This replica shift is still full of lies and a deeply dishonest argumentation. It'll have to be some kind of honesty, damn it! It sounds like the Swedish Democrats want to decide which art to show. Where does Rossana Dinamarca find this in the Swedish Democrats' expenditure movement? What does Margareta Larsson's individual statement a few years ago have to do with our cultural policy and our spending area movement? In what way does our proposal for a rescheduling of pre-scheduling involve a tapering-off? We are abolishing advertising tax to compensate regional pressure when we are going to see a transformation of the current pre-aid and also leave large parts of the support to cultural journals and others unchanged. In what way do the Swedish Democrats not understand what culture is? It really sounds like Rossana Dinamarca would have to go with us when we're on tour in the country and lecture on culture and cultural politics. I don't know if Rossana Dinamarca has studied cultural science, cultural heritage or anything. I feel that we have quite a good idea of what culture is about and of the power of culture and the ability to connect a society and be a force for communication between citizens, not least in order to strengthen the spirit of citizenship. There are no proposals whatsoever to stop sponsoring what Rossana Dinamarca refers to. On the contrary, we can see that those who represent the politicisation of culture today and who reduce the distance of this arm's length to culture are left-wing parties. Ola Wong wrote in Svenska Dagbladet not so long ago:中 What is now happening to the world culture museums is a microcosm of a cultural policy lost in post-colonial thinking and a stifling norm of norm criticism. It grows out of a populist world of ideas where belief in objective facts is denied and thus also the need for museums as an institution to gather, discover and spread knowledge. What is the answer of the Left Party to that?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-484	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, Margareta Larsson was not an individual in the Swedish Democrats in the Riksdag. She was the spokesperson of cultural policy for the Swedish Democrats, and she stood here and uttered exactly these words. She thought Carolina Falkholt should be put in jail for her art. I think it is quite remarkable for a representative of the cultural policy of the Swedish Democrats. This is not a single event, but this form of political orientations emerges from the Swedish Democrats consistently. We want to strangle support in any area – if we are talking about culture or more specifically peoples' education. We see how the Swedish Democrats act locally when they withdraw support for everything that could be called multiculturalism. We have had exactly this debate in the past on the specific issue of support for peoples' education. I think it is quite clear to most of us when we read about your policy with your Swedish centres, cultural slots or cultural heritage ROT. Everything is about preserving something as it is unclear what it would be. Because culture is just alive and something that is created all the time, it is difficult to know exactly what it is you want to preserve, and you have never been able to specify that either. You live on a nationalist thought all the time. But luckily, you're not that many.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-487	Mr President, I would like to For the red-green government, it is self-evident that living cultural life is part of the construction of society. Culture can provide aesthetic experiences, develop thinking and language and broaden our horizons. It is therefore crucial that we have culture around us, that it is part of our society and that all people have access to it no matter who they are, where they live or where they come from. That is why culture cannot be reduced to leisure activities only for those who have great resources and a lot of money. Culture is a right for everyone, whether you are lucky enough to be born in a big city or have parents with good incomes. That is why we must ensure that culture becomes accessible to more people. We also need to ensure that artistic independence is strong. Free art breaks new ground and questions familiar patterns and conventions. In this way, free art functions as a watchdog – a democratic cleaning machine that questions and examines power and stimulates critical thinking. That is why we must provide the best possible conditions for free art, for independence and for the arm's length of distance to political cleavage. During the year that has passed, the government has invested in culture school, among other things. SEK 100 million per year is invested in higher quality and lower fees. At last, more children and young people have the chance to try to stand on a theatre stage, write music, program or dance. We've invested in the libraries. A national library strategy is about to take shape, and more resources are being invested in literature in different languages. At last, everyone can find a book that suits them. We've invested in the museums. Since the introduction of free admission into state museums, people have flowed to an unprecedented extent. People who were previously unable to take part in what is our common cultural heritage are now visiting our museums to an extent that was not a reality just a year ago. Through the initiative Äga rum, we have invested SEK 50 million in cultural projects based on citizens' wishes and realized by non-profit forces with local roots around our entire elongated country. Let's move on. After two red-green budgets, the cultural budget has been increased by SEK 767 million. That is almost twice as much as in the whole of the last parliamentary term. Such increases in the cultural budget have not occurred in Sweden in more than a decade, and we have only just begun. We strengthen the conditions for more culture throughout the country by investing an additional 30 million in the county councils' cultural activities with the cultural collaboration model. Through it more resources are channelled to county museums, free groups, county theatres and much more. We invest in children's and young people's reading through the initiative All of Sweden reads and the project Bokstart. We invest in artists' opportunities to live on their creation. We strengthen the performing arts institutions so that the whole country will continue to enjoy a wide range of music. Let's roll out the new movie support. The additional 210 million that the government invests will ensure good conditions for Swedish film. All of this is done by the government to strengthen the conditions for Swedish cultural life, for artistic independence and for more people to have access to culture. At the same time, there is another reality, or I might call it a parallel reality or a potential reality. Just as some fictional stories may be unpleasant to read, this can be unpleasant reading, at least for those of us who are passionate about more culture. Among the bourgeois parties there are four shades of cultural dusk. There are four types of cuts. Although the amount of the offer of cuts varies between 479 million and 602 million, they are equally significant cuts. To finance their tax cuts, the bourgeois need to find money. The solution has been found in culture. They therefore owe the answer here and now. Why should the children in Värnamo receive a cut of SEK 500 000 in funding for the cultural school? Do you think we have too many theatres and orchestras outside the biggest cities? Are there too many of them? And what Swedish films are unnecessary to support? Unfortunately, the list is long, and time is not enough, but I do not want to make the suffering of the bourgeois long. You can change your mind and think of better thoughts. The choice is simple and clear: Should we have less culture for fewer or more culture for more people?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-499	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying how nice it is to hear an environmental party talk about its own policy. We have not heard much of this today, but it is appreciated, although I may not share the enthusiasm in all parts. In my speech, I tried to tell you both about our policy and how I view culture, but perhaps it was also shown that I made some criticism of the government. It's a little bit about the processes we have. Everything should go so fast, but really you don't really know what you're doing, it feels like. The film is an example. There are seven announcements, of which something is handled a bit helpful and others not at all in the budget bill. Now we are told that there are 210 extra million SEK for the film. That's a surprise! There is no mention of an extra million in the budget bill. On the other hand, there is compensation for the film agreement, and I assume that is the money that the Minister for Culture means. This has been the case in areas by area. As far as the film is concerned, for example, we do not have EUR 25 million in VAT compensation in our budget, because we do not shock up the bio-VAT and make cinema tickets so much more expensive. Then we will know that that is not VAT compensation but a conversion aid, or whatever it was last called. But that is not what was said in last year's budget bill. When we last debated the cultural school, even the Minister himself did not know how the 100 million people were going to spend. The only thing that was clear was that they were going to reduce the fees. This was the basis for investing SEK 100 million in the cultural school. But that was not the case when reality kicked in. I would really like to emphasise the important task of our municipal cultural schools, and I welcome the investigation that has been presented, although I may not share all the conclusions. I look forward to a debate on culture school. But it is a municipal activity that takes place on a voluntary basis on the children's free time. It was not as the Minister for Culture said; the money did not go to reduced fees. My question is therefore: what guarantees do we really have that what the Minister of Culture writes in the bill and today talks about will happen?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-506	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commending the Moderates. When we read the bourgeois proposals for funding and for investments in culture, only the Moderates go away with some honor. There is a cultural policy to talk about. That's what I wanted to say. I want you to pay tribute to that. On the other hand, it is sad that you are so lonely, and you get worried about what this is supposed to be like. What cuts should you choose to make? There are severe cuts being made. It also hurts me that Olof Lavesson is so clear with his suspicion and his mistrust of the major initiatives we are now making at the cultural school. If it is something that Sweden is in great need of, it is cultural infrastructure. And if it is something that every child in our country is worth, it is giving them the best conditions to try and be exposed to culture. We all know, I hope, what a tremendous effect culture has on us humans. It can make us human. A life without culture is a poor life, which is why we need to create these conditions. The Culture School is a huge initiative that we are now bringing home, but we are continuing to develop it, and we have many initiatives in this budget that we are proud of. But the Moderates, despite their reasonably reasonable cultural policy, want to cut back on the cultural school, on investments such as funding for museums and in Äga rum. But what is perhaps the most boring thing is that the Moderates want to cut the regional culture. If there is anything we need, there is more culture for more people throughout our country.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-509	Mr President, I would like to I think that in many contexts I have expressed myself very warmly about the cultural schools. As I said, I welcome the cultural school inquiry that has been presented. I think there's a lot of good stuff in it. I also believe that the state can provide good support for the municipalities when it comes to cultural school. It is about coordinating knowledge, providing research, helping to spread good examples and other things. But I am also quite careful that everyone should try to take responsibility for their own. We have a cultural life that has urgent needs in many places. I have previously congratulated the Minister for Culture on a good negotiation with the Ministry of Finance to free up money, but I am surprised that the first thing she does is not to prioritise her own activities, but what is municipal responsibility. I think we have agreed that cultural school is an important municipal responsibility that the municipalities must be allowed to decide on. What concerns me is the Minister of Culture, a year ago, didn't even know what this 100 million would do. We had a long debate here about reducing fees. We asked: Should the money go where the fees are at the highest, i.e. to Stockholm's crane municipalities? But that was not the case. There was no money to reduce fees, because it was not possible, but they have gone to increase accessibility. You just had to find another use, that's all. It is certainly good to increase accessibility, but it is better that we stand there with skills support. And how do you spend the 100 million next year? Or is it 200 million? We don't know, because we haven't even dealt with the cultural school investigation yet. It worries me that you shoot from your hip. You think you're doing something that should seem good, but then it's not what you're thinking. I think it is a major concern, and it creates ambiguities with regard to cultural policy. I do not feel that I have guarantees anymore that what is said in the budget proposal is really what is happening. The budget proposal, Mr President, is not there to express ambitions. The budget bill is meant to deliver according to the ambitions you have.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-514	Mr President, I would like to It is very clear in the budget text that the SEK 100 million that we invest and prioritise for the municipal music school should go to quality-enhancing efforts. That is exactly what is happening now. They are pumped out, and it has an effect on many children and young people in our country. I would like to return to the budget and proposals that we are now debating and to the Moderates' draft budget, where a series of cuts are made. I have a few questions, and I guess we'll have reason to come back to them. Do we have too many county museums in our country, Olof Lavesson? Is that what the Moderates think? Do we have too much library activity in our country, because there are cuts to it in your budget? Even our performing arts institutions are affected by the Moderate Plane. Boom, there went the regional music – thanks to the Moderates.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-518	Mr President, I would like to I am fascinated by how the government side explains, with quite strong breast tones, what an amazing budget you have. It's bold and brave. The whole thing is that you raise taxes by 40 billion, or 40 000 million, and borrow for reform. And they rule with the support of the Left Party, which has received a couple of real uppercuts against entrepreneurs and individuals in Sweden. The alliance is not at the same cost and benefit levels. This is because we want to create the conditions for companies to flourish and for individuals to get more in their wallets, not less. What does the Minister of Culture say about the Bankruptcy Institute's failure to lend to reforms in the field of culture in a boom?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-520	Mr President, I would like to We are here to discuss and debate the cultural budget. It is amazing that the Christian Democrats prefer to talk about other things. But it is not only astounding but also revealing. In the absence of cultural policy, of an idea of at least the intrinsic value of culture or of the independence of free art, one chooses to shift the picture and focus on completely different issues from the priorities and investments in cultural policy that are really needed. It is no wonder that the eight years of bourgeois cultural policy led us in the opposite direction to forward, more and better. I wonder why the Christian Democrats want to withdraw the funding of the national library strategy. Why isn't it needed? And why is it that you don't want to invest in culture in school? I note that the Christian Democrats want to reduce both the school of culture and the school of creation. It's amazing. If it is something that children and young people in our country need, it is the opportunity for more culture.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-523	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. I do not think the Minister for Culture was here when I made my speech. At that time I drew precisely the cultural policy of the Christian Democrats. If you want to go into it, you can read about it in the Minutes afterwards. I will not release the Minister of Culture as far as taxes are concerned. What makes it possible for the Minister of Culture to stand here and say that we invest nothing or that we invest less than the government does has to do with taxes and loans for reform. Some examples include: 中 increased income tax, which will affect approximately 39 000 Swedes
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-530	中 airline tax, which is also on G now. As far as air tax is concerned, S-politicians are talking about jobs and how it will affect businesses and the growth of businesses, especially in rural areas. All these taxes are used to finance reforms. This also applies to the cultural side. To make possible what the Minister of Culture is talking about here-- we're doing it and that, and we're betting there and there-- you're taking the money in through the tax. That's it. My question remains. How does the Minister of Culture see that the Institute of Economic Affairs has failed to lend for reforms in the field of culture in a boom?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-534	Mr President, I would like to Taxes are a tool that all governments are working on to fund and set different priorities. That goes without saying. I am somewhat surprised by the way the honourable Member chooses to use the time for a cultural budget debate. The Christian Democrats have once and for all shown very clearly that they lack cultural policy. It's amazing. I shall certainly read Mr Utbolt's speech in the Minutes. But I have read the Christian Democrats' draft budget, and that is beneath all criticism.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-537	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating Category 17 relating to the field of culture. The Government wants to strengthen public participation in nature conservation work, among other things. through access to environmental information, participation in decision-making processes and access to justice. ..................................................... The Government appointed an investigation this spring to identify needs and analyse whether the public should have the right to review the decisions of the Swedish Forest Agency. The autumn budget therefore does not wait for the conclusions of the inquiry, but it already states in the budget that access to justice for the public should be implemented. The government is anticipating its own investigation. What's the idea here? What is the view of the Minister for Culture and Democracy that we are pre paring the preparation of a matter that is currently being investigated? Decisions are already being made in the budget to strengthen public participation in nature conservation work, including: through access to environmental information, participation in decision-making processes and access to justice.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-540	Mr President, I would like to This is an interesting cultural budget debate. I hear here that the Cultural Policy Spokesperson of the Center Party chooses to ask a question that should be put to Rural Minister Bucht – and to which he can certainly give a very good answer – instead of talking about what is obvious. Throughout the year, the Center Party has talked widely about the importance of more culture throughout the country. They have spoken of themselves as advocates of local culture. A draft budget is then presented, reflecting the absence of culture, a lack of priorities and a lack of willingness to fill the words with a workshop. It was just empty talk from the Center Party. It's sad reading. I look forward to meeting center parties around the country who have challenged me to represent a party that wants more culture throughout the country. Now it is black and white that this is not the case. In the Center Party's budget it is a total cultural slaughter – total. If the Moderates are the best in the class of the bourgeois – they have at least one cultural policy – then the Center Party shows that the Christian Democrats have no cultural policy next to them. I don't know what else you have. The Center Party's cultural budget basically strangles all the investments the government wants to invest in. There is no support for cultural schools, museums do not receive more money and cultural projects should not take place. But the worst part is probably that the Center Party wants more than half the film support. Do we have too much culture in our country today? I'd like an answer to that question.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-546	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Culture does not even want to respond to what she herself has included in her budget text. It is quite interesting – especially as she is also so-called Minister for Democracy – that she cannot respond to what is meant by giving the public a right of access to justice. An investigation is already looking at it and if you're going to be able to carry it out. These are, of course, questions to which the Minister for Culture must be able to answer, because they are included in the Minister for Culture's budget. I can comment on the budget a little. Now the Minister of Culture was not here when I had my speech. Otherwise, we would have been able to get answers to most of the questions. On most points, our proposals are not really savings. The fact that we have lower appropriations is because we have not increased the appropriations in the way that the government has done in comparison with the 2016/17 budget. It is also linked to the fact that we do not have tax increases. Both Olov Lavesson and Roland Utbolt have mentioned this before me as clear parts. It is a question of a number of billions if you look at the cultural and leisure sectors in increased taxes in employers' contributions and other parts. It is interesting that the Minister is standing here telling us that she does not know what cultural policy we have. We have a very open cultural policy. At every party meeting we have held, we have adopted a cultural policy programme with which we have been clear. The Green Party has not done that. On the other hand, a working group has been appointed to develop a cultural programme. There we are talking about freeing public transport from advertising. Public transport advertising can be banned and replaced by cultural expressions. It says that some form of broadband tax should be introduced. It is therefore necessary to limit broadband. I can continue to point out the parts. The spokesperson on cultural policy says: we have already transformed much of what is in the proposal into actual politics. Then there are other things that we need to work on in the longer term. It is Niclas Malmberg who says this in Swedish Television. He believes that the programme that I know the Green Party has not even adopted is being implemented. Nor have I heard the Minister for Culture say anything about the programme.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-554	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that the Centre Party's Per Lodenius is well aware that the cultural programme he is talking about is not a programme adopted by the Green Party – either by the Party Board or Congress. It is about as preposterous as claiming that the Center Party is in favour of free immigration. It was also something that was one of your proposals in your party. Did you take it? No, the Center Party didn't. There are many different texts that figure. It is important to keep your tongue right in your mouth and know what you are talking about. Again, what Mr Lodenius has said in this House is perhaps just empty talk. What is important is what one actually prioritises and puts forward in one's draft budget. There, the priority is to invest in culture throughout our country with its absence. Once again, it's just empty talk. The fact that the Center Party does this is indeed a sad story. Keep talking! Me and the government will deliver and do.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-557	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government's efforts this year to make in its budget proposal for the cultural area, and which it is quite strongly in favour of, are aimed almost exclusively at the establishment of new arrivals. This applies whether it is about sport or peoples' education. We note that the contribution to cultural conservation is increased by SEK 3 million, which is gratifying. That is at least 10% of our earmarked funding for cultural reserves alone. That is a step in the right direction. There are also concerns about the government's budget proposal. In particular, there are signs that the budget is both under-financed and that there is a great deal of money missing. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that, in the long run, it lacks 50 billion in order to be able to carry out its efforts. It's a big problem. We do not know anywhere today either, as previous speakers have been a little bit on, how much this will affect the cultural budget in the long run. It is a cloud of concern that must be in the sky of Parliament. I was going to deal primarily with an issue that has been discussed and has been up for debate in the past and even today. It is a question of film policy. Here we know that there are a number of announcements from the parliamentary majority, where the government has been given the task of returning with follow-up and, not least, of setting up a new film policy investigation, for example. Now the whole government's film policy is being enforced with the budget bill. That is why my question is: how do you intend to follow up on Parliament's announcements? The question is posed in the light of the fact that the concept of democracy is being taken to heart and that the Minister for Culture is also a Minister for Democracy.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-562	Mr President, I would like to The Government intends to respond to and respond to announcements in the usual order and in good time. During the period of bourgeois government, which was long, it took an average of three years to deal with an announcement. I intend to be better than that. I would like to talk more about the cultural policy of the Swedish Democrats. When I read it, I was struck by how optimistic it is when it comes to getting their funding together. I had skilled officials look at the funding. No matter how they counted, they didn't get plus and minus to go together. Once again, we are faced with a situation in which there are Swedish democrats and cultural political spokespersons who talk widely about all the investments and investments to make. But it's empty talk. The funding doesn't add up. It's scary and sad. If you have so much money and it's just built on air castles, it will be very difficult to conduct a cultural policy discussion seriously. In spite of their huge money bag, the Swedish democrats are also slaughtering a great deal of culture in which the government is investing. For example, they slaughter the support for Swedish films. I'm surprised. How do you intend to finance the Swedish film that you claim to protect so much if you do not prioritise paying for it? The Swedish Democrats devote great effort to governing and liberating art in various ways. They want to govern freedom of expression and artistic freedom. It's really scary.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-567	Mr President, I would like to Somewhere we've touched on this before. It is about the art of keeping to honesty and objectivity in the debate. I do not know where we would like to direct freedom of expression or, for example, what art is being shown. That is once again an absurd accusation. The fact that we reduce direct subsidies by a few per cent in terms of, for example, compensation and grants to artists or the National Arts Council is not a question of controlling which art or which contemporary art could be developed or displayed. Somewhere free cultural life is much greater than direct government subsidies. On the contrary, we believe that our efforts to create pre-schools, to create care for the elderly, to invest in low-income people in tax terms, to abolish sickness pay and the like for small businesses would help to improve the conditions and opportunities for many cultural workers with lower incomes to carry out their work. It is important to meet the anxiety cloud that the Swedish National Audit Office has raised about the government's budget being underfunded. There is, in the long run, a lack of substantial resources. This is not the way to criticise our draft budget for being underfunded without any justification. Our area of expenditure exercise is financed crown for crown. It has been underfunded by no other judge what I have heard. I have previously put a question to representatives of the government parties. How does the Minister of Culture view the fact that we have had to debate earlier this afternoon that museums, cultural schools and the like are beginning to implement operational directives from investigations that are not yet anchored by proposals or legislative proposals that have been supported by the majority of Parliament but where the government has given directives? That is a relevant question.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-572	Mr President, I would like to The municipal cultural school is just a municipal cultural school. It is municipal self-government that governs the various cultural schools. It is only positive that the government prioritises both investing SEK 100 million per year in cultural schools while we have an investigation that provides suggestions on how we can take advantage of and better create common conditions for this national matter. We want more. But we do not want in any way to nationalise the municipal school of culture. It's a fantastic business. On the other hand, we want to disseminate the good examples and all the empirical evidence that can create even better conditions for more people. That's the objective of the investigation. It is not up to the government to criticise certain municipalities which have listened to some of the initiatives. Everyone is free to do so. We still live in a free country. I think the honourable Member should also take this into account. That is why what the Swedish Democrats say is so serious. It is one thing to write fine words and make them as adaptable as possible in a draft budget. At the same time, however, there are Members of Parliament who call journalists enemies of the nation and say that they wish to imprison artists. This is more than worrying; it is really dangerous. We need to be many who take this seriously and understand what it is talking about. It doesn't get any more serious than this.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-576	Mr President, I would like to The debate in the field of cultural policy is interesting, and it reflects the ideological differences and where the lines go. I would like to continue on the line taken by several others, namely the model of cultural cooperation and the view of the part of culture that is taking place at local and regional level, where, in my opinion, it belongs. I have confidence and trust that the skills of the local conditions are greater in the country than in the capital. The liberals and the government differ in terms of money for this, but also in the basic view of what the cultural cooperation model means. The criticism that has emerged right now is that the government's governance via the Swedish Arts Council and its corrections to the local cultural plans are becoming harder and harder. The funding has been either back or still. I would like to hear the view of the Minister for Culture that the relationship is not the opposite, that is to say that governance is becoming weaker and funding is higher.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-580	Mr President, I would like to We have independent authorities, and I protect and consider how they make their judgments. What the Liberals are doing, as is clear from their draft budget, is actually investing in regional culture. In this they differ from most other bourgeois parties, which countries honor them. However, I wonder why the Liberals want to slaughter more than half the film support. Do we have too much Swedish film? What should be removed in Swedish film production? It is easy to see that the Liberals do not think that the municipal cultural school is worth investing in. I believed in the beautiful words of the Liberals that children and young people should have good opportunities and opportunities to be exposed to culture and to try culture. Why do you not give priority to these issues? What was not important, and why is it so unimportant?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-582	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to note that the Minister for Culture has understood our commitment to the culture of the whole country through, among other things, the model of cultural cooperation. I think, however, that she is guilty of the answer in terms of local competence. The fact that the Minister for Culture highlights the independence of individual authorities also pleases me, but at the same time there are a lot of signals in politics right now. It bypasses both the political debate and the parliament by directing instead with signal politics. I am thinking, for example, of the merger of the culture museums and other initiatives, where money is sent in drainpipes to independent authorities. It is a fact that the cultural cooperation model is increasingly governed by the state. The red pen is increasingly fluttering over the local cultural plans and indicates what they should contain and achieve. Instead, the flowers of all 21 regions could have been allowed to bloom – I think the Minister might be able to appreciate such rhetoric.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-585	Mr President, I would like to After two red-green budgets, the cultural budget has been increased by SEK 767 million. That is almost twice as much as in the whole of the last parliamentary term. Such cultural budget increases have not occurred in Sweden in more than a decade. And we're just getting started. More culture for more people throughout the country are not just words in the government's cultural policy. We show this with our priorities and our actions. I hope that the Liberals can get more strength behind their beautiful words and that we can meet in the efforts we want to make in the future.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-590	Mr President, I would like to My moderate party colleague and chairman of the Culture Committee Olof Lavesson has previously discussed cultural policy in general during the debate, and I will now in the budget debate therefore focus on sports issues. I am incredibly proud of the Swedish sports movement and all that it includes. It is by far the largest popular movement and includes over 3 million members, over 600 000 non-profit leaders in about 20 000 associations. They are leaders who work for our children and young people around the country in a wonderful way every day. I am pleased to say that sport has now gained an increasing place in the debate on society, and this can be directly attributed to the fact that in sport we find one of the very best tools for, for example, better public health, integration and community. When households get less margins and exclusion increases, it is often cultural and sports experiences or practice that are first prioritised down. Families simply cannot afford to allow their children to participate in the sports community as they would like. For the Moderates, the right of all children and young people to participate in sport is one of the most priority areas. The Moderates want to develop a sports and leisure policy that reaches everyone. In order to reach specific children and young people, the Moderates therefore also propose a new initiative called Sports for Leisure, where the School Sports Association is given the task of designing a project in which sport becomes an even clearer part of leisure centres' activities. There are about 400 000 children in leisure activities, and we know that not all children and young people have a tradition or a natural connection to association life – an association life that is quite unique to Sweden. Sports at leisure is therefore a good arena to reach a wide range of children and young people. Sport brings joy and community and offers important ways into society. The former alliance government's reform The sports lift meant that sport was added to a total of SEK 4 billion over eight years of government ownership to broaden sport to reach more children and young people. We Moderates now want to further initiate a handshake with the sports movement for greater integration, inclusion, improved public health and a social widening of sport. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, young people are suffering from unreasonable demands today. Abuse, disease, and self - injury are often an expression of this. We Moderates therefore want to initiate a concerted effort on this social problem in order to implement a handshake for healthy body ideals within the framework of an extended sports lift. The Moderates also want to set up a national independent doping organisation, a so-called Nado, in order for all sports to be included within the same organisation regarding doping support. That is not the case today. We also see great benefits in that the organisation has a natural and important connection to academia and research. The Moderates give priority to the fight against exclusion. This exclusion is also reflected in children's and young people's sports. Most children in Sweden participate in several activities. Many parents bear witness to difficulties in limiting these activities in an ever greater variety. These children and young people often come from vulnerable socio-economic environments. The Moderates therefore believe that an investigation should be set up to identify this exclusion. The language of sport is universal and is not limited by culture, religion or ethnic origin. The Moderates are behind a modern sports policy that always takes its starting point in giving everyone regardless of age the same opportunities for sports. Research shows, in some cases, an imbalance in the distribution of financial allocations linked to gender. We Moderates therefore want an investigation to be initiated that highlights how financial funds are allocated to gender and that proposals to strengthen gender equality in Swedish sport are presented. Public health issues are becoming increasingly focused. Overweight, obesity and mental ill-health are becoming more common among the population, and here both sport and the outdoor sector can contribute to preventive work. Efforts on sports and outdoor life are therefore very wise and very well invested funds. I am therefore also incredibly proud to tell you that the Moderates in their budget now add a total of 1.99 billion to the sports movement. It is also 55 million more than the government's funding for sport. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who contribute their great efforts in the sports movement. We are proud, we see, we understand and we appreciate the fantastic and invaluable efforts that are being made. A big and warm thank you to them! Mr President, I would like to With this tribute to the representatives of the sports movement, I will now conclude my speech.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-607	Mr President, I would like to Around our country there are a variety of museums with different specialisations, but unlike our neighbours Norway and Finland, Sweden currently lacks a national cultural heritage centre where, for example, the deaf, the visually and the hearing-impaired can participate and also share a collective knowledge, skills, objects and archives that show our cultural heritage. Accessibility is important for all of us in all museums, but it is equally important that there is a place for retelling, for example, the history and cultural heritage of the deaf. A single cultural heritage centre can also serve as a resource for other museums. In order to get a good understanding of the needs and scope, as a first step in the visibility and accessibility of this part of the cultural heritage, we want to give a targeted mission to the Institute for Languages and People's Memories to collect and build a knowledge base for this in consultation with the Living History Forum. This is part of our ambition in the Swedish Democrats to make the cultural heritage visible and accessible to all. We therefore propose a grant to the Institute to provide the Institute with resources to carry out this work. Mr President, I would like to We're gonna be the best in the world! Games are culture. It is a creative industry that involves everything from artists to composers and scriptwriters. It is a modern form of culture that interacts with users, and through this interaction you can tell stories that the user and the game creator have written together. Sweden has a strong culture, and a rich history, stories that also need to be recounted for future generations. It is important to get to know one's story in order to learn from it. The games provide a unique opportunity to experience and convey these stories. The computer games can thus share the responsibility of conveying our legacy to new generations on the platforms they are on today. Therefore, we Swedish democrats intend to promote Swedish stories in this medium. Our goal is that the thriving gaming industry we already have should be able to continue its success story and that Sweden should consolidate its position as one of the leaders in the digital gaming world. We propose that a platform be set up, possibly in the form of a gambling institute, for cooperation between state and industry. The Gaming Institute will work to make visible the obstacles the gaming industry currently faces in Sweden and be a help agency to help the industry cooperate with other cultural industries and cultural areas. It can also contribute to more and new sources of income for art and culture creators. In this way, we can build a strong gaming creation infrastructure that maintains our position as world-leading game development. With this, Mr President, I support Mr Emilsson's motion.
i-QqLw1932tVQWsGa2bRYZdK	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report on Category 17 and reject all reservations. History shows that it is art and culture that carry democracy and open society, where we can express ourselves and not become conformist. For us social democrats and for the green-red government, it is about cultivating a free and voluntary cultural life and asserting freedom of expression. People have always written, created, performed music and portrayed experiences and thoughts. 400 000 children go to music and culture school. Voluntaryly and in free time, they seek different cultural expressions. The school, which is a duty, is a major cultural institution and must use different forms of expression for all children. Today we can see that peoples' education, culture and sport have opened their arms when our new and future citizens from different backgrounds have come to Sweden. In sport today we have 20 000 associations, 650 000 non-profit leaders and 3 million active people. If you connect in the outdoor life there are 5 million in the association life. Sport is part of the Swedish model. It is independent, democratic and open to all. But what are our challenges? Who doesn't have a cultural voice today? Let me give you an example. Our indigenous people have shown a deficit. Umeå, which was the European Capital of Culture in 2014, when I myself was politically responsible, raised the issue and made it visible. The Sami became a supporting part of the whole year. Cultural policy has a choice, and that is to raise those who are not heard and seen and dare to stand up for those elections even when it blows. Today, the funding for culture in Sweden as a whole goes nationally through the state by 43%, through the municipalities by 42% and through the regions by 12%. This requires dialogue, cooperation and respect from all levels. That's how we're gonna be strong. The cultural cooperation model is part of this. The Committee on Culture's report on the expenditure area Culture, the media, religious communities and leisure shows that it reinforces democracy in the broad sense and our ability and openness to and to each other. If we open up culture to more people, it will provide increased opportunities for education and learning. Then you can understand your time and history better. This is the strength of culture – to both challenge and develop ourselves and with others: more culture to more people. Culture is not separate from the rest of society. The long synergies of culture are everywhere and are strong in research and science, for the innovative climate, for the export market, for economic development and growth, for different professions and for new jobs. I usually say that design is the window into the future to enable and reach a sustainable society. Culture is not exclusive to a cultural committee, but should be a matter and a necessity for all policy areas. By investing a lot in culture and understanding the strength of culture, it will be positive for all areas. Culture is cultivation, as they say. There is no finished model. There is no finished formula, but we must do it together.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-627	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to deal with Category 5, which is about international cooperation. It is about how Sweden will interact with others and how we work within the framework of international organisations. I would like to begin by calling for the moderate reservation on the direction of policy to be adopted. Democracy, international law and human rights are the cornerstones of Moderate foreign policy. They are best managed through powerful international institutions and a strong international legal order, and it is in Sweden's interest to safeguard and promote these values. The troubled world we see around us is still characterised by interdependence but now also by great change and uncertainty. In these very uncertain times, it is not possible to stress enough the importance of alliances and cooperation with like-minded people to meet today's but also the challenges of the future. In this way, we also defend Sweden's security, prosperity and interests in international politics. Mr President, I would like to The terrible war in Syria has soon been going on for six years. The battles between government forces, rebel groups and ISIL/ Daish have claimed more than 300 000 lives. We must condemn the unacceptable attacks on schools, hospitals and humanitarian convoys. We must work to put an end to the violence and to work towards the resumption of a political process in order to find a solution. But it is also a question of bringing those responsible to justice. There cannot be impunity, nor can there be impunity in Syria. The situation in Iraq is also serious. A few days ago, the UN reported that 68 000 people fled the Iraqi city of Mosul and that ISIL/ Daish was completely surrounded in the city. And as late as Monday it was reported that half of East Mosul was ingested. Although these reports point to some successes, difficult trials remain in the fight against terrorism and in the fight for a peaceful Iraq. Sweden must be able to take on a leading role in the fight against terrorism and indiscriminate violence. Mr President, I would like to Russian aggression against Ukraine continues. The conflict – or rather Russia – is challenging the entire European security regime. As a result, Sweden's immediate neighbourhood has become more uncertain. The EU and the US must be united and clear in their positions towards Russia. We cannot accept such aggressive action, and we cannot accept the lack of respect for the sovereignty of states and for international law shown by Russia. Mr President, I would like to What could previously be labeled as defence policy, security policy, climate policy and perhaps anti-terrorism policy are now parts of the same whole. Sweden should have the ability to both prevent and manage the crises we face and do so together with others. This calls for a coherent foreign, defence and security policy aimed at safeguarding open society. In order for us to have an impact on our foreign policy, we must seek dialogue with like-minded countries, mainly within the EU but also, of course, within the UN. The UK referendum on an exit from the EU has put the question of the future of the EU at its head. It looks like there are many who are currently questioning the whole of European cooperation. But for us it is a clear fact: in order to counter all these threats and achieve solutions, we need to keep working to make cooperation within the EU better and stronger. It is now a major responsibility of the government that Sweden prioritises work within the EU, so that the EU can also become a better global player. Mr President, I would like to Transatlantic cooperation is central, regardless of who is President of the United States. Sweden must continue to influence and develop cooperation, so that we have strong and effective cooperation. Like I said, we're gonna look for like-minded people. It is particularly important to work with our Nordic neighbours and our Baltic neighbours. In exactly one month, Sweden will take over the Presidency of the UN Security Council. This is happening at a time when the Security Council and the world are facing very difficult challenges. We also see a difficult climate of cooperation in the Council itself. It is important that it can be a united Sweden that supports Sweden's efforts and Sweden's actions in the Security Council. Then it is a big and heavy responsibility for the government to be open and transparent in its dialogue, not least with the Riksdag but also more informally with the other civil society. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to touch on what the committee in the report points out in terms of governance and dialogue between Parliament and the government. I can only urge listeners and viewers to read what we write about our wanting to see an improved accounting system.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-639	Mr President, I would like to In an increasingly globalised world, Sweden must strive for good relations with the outside world. We need to be able to present a picture of our country as a serious and credible partner. We need to be able to show that Sweden is a country that it is worth investing in or in any case visiting, but also that it is a country that participates in efforts and research for a more peaceful world. In our budget exercise for Category 5, we have chosen to make a few investments which I would like to emphasise in particular. These are initiatives that we believe could be of great benefit to both Sweden and our partners. We allocate additional funds of SEK 10 million annually to the Swedish Institute. The Swedish Institute has the task of creating trust in Sweden and Swedish skills and laying the foundation for long-term relations between Sweden and the outside world. Through meetings, networking and dialogue with the outside world, the Institute contributes to development and creates trust in Sweden, which makes it easier for companies, universities, cultural institutions, municipalities and others who depend on Sweden's attractiveness. The Swedish Institute provides training for foreign citizens through its leadership programme, and today there is a network of grants that have completed the training. Many of the scholarship recipients have, or will have, important positions and functions in their home countries, both in the business community and in the public sector, for example within the diplomatic corps. We want to take advantage of this network of scholarship recipients who have studied at the Swedish Institute's leadership programme and make more effective use of it. Therefore, we want the Swedish Institute to develop an action plan for how Sweden can take advantage of this network, both from a diplomatic point of view and from a commercial point of view. The committee notes that the budget proposal states that the Swedish Institute has been commissioned to develop a platform for foreign authorities, universities and Swedish companies within the framework of the implementation of the Government's export strategy. That is a good thing, but the action plan we are proposing involves much more than just exports. It needs to be much broader in order to make a proper use of the network, we believe. Furthermore, we also want the Swedish Institute to develop a communication plan and choose five to ten countries that they invest more in. Unfortunately, we can see that the committee believes that no further action, other than that of the government, is required. The second initiative, Mr President, concerns Nordic cooperation. We Swedish democrats regard us in descending order as part of a Nordic, a European, a Western and a global community. In line with this, we want to work in particular to strengthen Nordic identity and broaden and deepen Nordic cooperation. Our countries have a lot in common, and Nordic cooperation has long been well established. Together, we are the world's tenth largest economy, and our countries are world leaders in many areas and in many contexts. The Nordic countries share common values and cultural heritage. But the common features of the Nordic languages are also a cornerstone of the community that binds the Nordic countries together. For this reason, we want to allocate additional funding of SEK 10 million to improve inter-ordic language understanding and support efforts for cultural exchange. The committee rightly notes that in many ways Nordic cooperation is unique in an international comparison and that it is politically, economically and culturally anchored. I therefore find it sad that we are not prepared to support a change in order to invest in language comprehension and support cultural exchanges. Mr President, I would like to We also propose that the allocation for international action be lifted from Category 6 and instead entered Category 5 under a new allocation. We think it is better to work together internationally. Since the birth of the UN, Sweden has participated in many of the organisation's peacekeeping operations – all in all 120 international missions in 60 countries. In recent years, however, Sweden has almost completely declined to participate in UN-led peacekeeping operations and instead given priority to EU or NATO-led operations – the Malian operation is an exception, as it is led by the UN. The UN has apparently been rejected as a conflict manager by various Swedish governments, which we regret. It is then positive that we may now return to participating more actively in the UN-led efforts. We see the UN as the primary cooperation body for dealing with conflicts and safeguarding peace and security. A fundamental prerequisite for international action shall be a clear mandate from the UN Security Council. Sweden should play an active role in UN and Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, when we find strong motivation for this, and work to strengthen the capacities of these organisations. It is also important that the efforts have clear objectives and a well-thought-out strategy to enable them to contribute to peace and stability. However, international efforts must not jeopardise the survival of our own country. Therefore, additional funds should be provided to the Swedish Armed Forces as compensation for the financial consequences of international efforts. In the new appropriation of SEK 821 million, which we propose in Category 5, we have financed for the Swedish international efforts in Mali and northern Iraq, for example, which we have been in favour of. The debates on these efforts will come back to when the reports of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence are discussed in Parliament on 13 December. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we share the criticisms expressed in the committee's report regarding the accounting of the results and note that, despite the committee's comments for several years, the accounts still contain a great deal of shortcomings. Since the framework for the area of expenditure has already been decided and we have proposed an extended framework, we do not take part in the decision in paragraph 1. Instead, we have added a specific opinion to the report.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-656	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs new leadership. Despite the fact that we are in a boom where more jobs should grow and employment should increase, there is an increase in division in society. The government has chosen to conduct a policy in which deficits are increasing despite the good times and we should collect in the barns to meet worse economic conditions. For the Center Party, it is important, Mr President, to take financial responsibility, to break the divide and to strengthen climate change. This is the first budget debate that we have on the Committee on Foreign Affairs' part of the budget. Of course, this is also about financial responsibility for the part dealing with international cooperation, category 5. International collaboration is needed to meet common challenges. There are many accounts, not just Category 5, that concern precisely how we build international collaboration. For us, it is important, and I think we have a broad consensus here, that international law, human rights, democracy and the rule of law should be the cornerstones of our cooperation – the UN, of course, the EU as well. Our fundamental principles are being challenged today from various quarters, including in this House. It is about protectionism, it is about nationalism and populism that has once again come out of the closets. Freedom, transparency and tolerance, as well as respect for international law, are portrayed by these forces as a threat. Instead, we see the growth of authoritarian regimes, as well as terrorism and crimes against humanity. International collaboration will then be important in the UN, where we take place in the Security Council, and in the EU, which is a central place for Sweden's international cooperation. Of course, we also have NATO and the Nordic Council. A collaboration that must not be broken, Mr President, is interaction with the United Kingdom and the United States. I would like to warn against the voices raised for leaving Britain out now that they have decided on Brexit and for the votes that paint the newly elected President Trump as a reason to leave the US. It would be devastating for our international cooperation and for our work for peace, security and development not only in our part of the world but globally. Mr President, I would like to In the budget in this area, the government raises some issues, not least peace and security promotion activities and mediation efforts. The Center Party in itself welcomes such an enhanced ambition. But, Mr President, such work must not be a dayfly, a short-term effort linked to two years in the Security Council. It requires long-termness and perseverance and must not lead to our voice for freedom from oppression, our voice for democracy and against authoritarian regimes, our voice for international law against the right of the strong being silenced. Nor should it lead us to focus solely on what is never so important, namely giving women a place at the negotiating tables. A broader and more long-term approach is needed. We have not yet seen how the government thinks. In any case, we have noted from our side, Mr President, that over the past year and in the work and campaign to reach the seat of the Security Council without special budgetary support, a space has been created for 27 million. We interpret this as the existence of resources in this area of international cooperation which can well be used and re-prioritized to cope with the increased efforts in the areas of peace, security and mediation. Against this background, we have not added additional money in this area. Unchanged budget has been our starting point, and in this context I would also like to say that there is one point on which we would like to put an exclamation mark: the role of ISP and ISP in future new legislation on arms exports. It is clear that in this context there may be proposals that require increased resources. However, we have not yet seen any proposal for new legislation from the government, and that is why there is no proposal from us on the resource issues in the part other than the purely general one on wage increases. Mr President, I would like to Since the framework has been adopted and we are following the usual practice, we have only one specific opinion.
i-4Xdbztwfiy6UwsdjpvT1pU	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for its broad support for the general Swedish foreign and security policy! Kerstin Lundgren began by saying things that perhaps belonged more to an economic policy debate than to a debate on the budget for this area of foreign policy. I have to start by saying correctly, Kerstin Lundgren, that employment is actually increasing in Sweden. Unemployment is decreasing and deficits are decreasing, that is, contrary to what Kerstin Lundgren said. Of course, having the ambition, in opposition and as a centre party, that employment should increase even more, that unemployment should decrease even more, or that deficits should decrease even more, is most possible and reasonable. Nevertheless, I think that the facts must be right in a debate like this. What policy is then believed to be the most successful – yes, it is very reasonable to have different views on it, and therefore we have different parties. My question to Kerstin Lundgren is about what she said in conclusion about the Center Party not proposing any additions to the budget area. That's right. But I would still like to ask Kerstin Lundgren to explain. You get the impression that it would be an unchanged budget with the Center Party's proposals in this area of the budget, but it still sums it up, as I see it in the tables, to a reduction of almost SEK 12 million. I would like to hear Kerstin Lundgren's explanation for the reduction, the real change, proposed by the Center Party in this area of the budget.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-673	Mr President, I would like to You can choose, as Kenneth G Forslund, only to refer to the latest figures. However, the starting point has been that we are in a boom, and we see how division in society is growing. Reasonably, we should have a better increase in employment than the latest figures have indicated from the point of view of the fact that the economy is at its peak in relation to the previous years. It is notable, Mr President, that we do not hear from the government that at this stage we should be careful and financially responsible. Instead, the deficits are being tightened up and increased and, in this area too, taxpayers' money is being allowed to move forward without, in fact, being necessary in this economic situation. The government should have seen that the 27 million used over the past years for the Security Council campaign could have been re-prioritized. There's obviously air in the system. For this reason, the Centre Party basically has an unchanged budget. Twenty-seven million have been used over the past few years without the need for specific budget lines. Then there must reasonably be air in the system. That is why we have a basically unchanged budget level.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-676	Mr President, I would like to Now I think that Kerstin Lundgren ends up more correctly in her description of reality. Of course, one can always have a desire to increase employment even more. We also have it as a government party. Of course, we would like a great deal of change in the policy we are pursuing. However, I do not agree with the view that deficits should be reduced. The forecast at the moment is that we will already achieve a zero result in terms of the state budget this year. Let's see how it ends. The recovery has gone faster than the government has predicted. When it comes to air or not in the budget area, the Center Party proposes a reduction of SEK 10.3 million in peace and security promotion activities. That is most of the nearly SEK 12 million that you propose to reduce. I can understand the argument about 27 million in air in the system, although I do not agree with it, but I wonder why you brought down only 12 million and not 27 million.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-679	Mr President, I would like to We could have done that, but we chose to be gentle in that part. The government says that there has been a campaign without special funding and that the cost of 27 million within the budget has been met. Then the government comes up with proposals for extensions. We do not think that is responsible. For this reason, we in the Center Party chose not to agree to the proposals for extensions put in the budget by the government. We believe that it is necessary to specify and make clear where the 27 million has come from and why more funding is needed at the moment. It may be that these are grants that compensate for past efforts. We want to make sure that doesn't happen.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-682	Mr President, I would like to Peace on Earth. Is that a naive dream? Is it something that only children believe in these days? Or even children may not believe in such things anymore. At least I'm old enough to remember Sven Melander's sketch where he asks a child about this, and she's more interested in bike, video and money than peace on earth. You younger than me, google this. Peace on earth may feel like a dream, but the way there is still based on harsh facts. We know what would bring such a world. We know that in a democratic world we reach such a situation. Democracy doesn't fight with each other. The road to all countries being democracies is, of course, much more difficult, but we know what works. Then, of course, this is what we should focus on. Democracies don't just stop fighting with each other. Nor has there been a famine in a democracy. A democracy has much higher prosperity, a much better health of its citizens and takes better care of its citizens than non-democrats do. I would say that democracy is mankind's best invention. We also know a great deal about how to achieve democracy. There are, of course, many ways. Sometimes violence is used to intervene in different countries to stop abuse. It can at best lead to democracy. Violence is a blunt weapon. When the citizens of a country rise up against their dictator, violence is often a blunt weapon. To challenge a dictator in the field of violence is always to challenge the dictator in the area where the dictator is best. It's violence dictators do. The state apparatus and the dictator are good at controlling the police and the military. There is some research on non-violence methods, that is, how citizens use non-violence methods to achieve democracy. Gandhi is, of course, the best-known example. But we have seen in a variety of revolutions of different colors around the world that non-violence methods have been the foundation. It is important for Swedish foreign policy that it is such work and the people who are trying to get up that we support. We will help with methods, money and organization. It is therefore also important for democracies to cooperate. It is not always the case that democracies behave so well in foreign policy. The democracies behave well against their own citizens, but not always against the citizens of other countries – not against people in dictatorships. It is important that democracies work together and keep an eye on each other so that they live up to the demands of human rights. Mr President, I would like to If Russia were to be a democracy today, we would not experience any military threat from them. Now it's just the opposite. Russia is moving in exactly the opposite direction and is becoming less democratic. Putin has a strong hold on power. We are facing this particular threat in the Baltic Sea region. We can see aggression against Ukraine, and it can easily happen against the Baltic countries. Sweden could be involved in a conflict in the Baltic Sea. That is why we in the Liberals believe that NATO membership for Sweden will continue to be important. Membership takes place between countries. It is, of course, regrettable that Donald Trump should become President of the United States. This creates great uncertainty if not least the relationship between the USA and Russia. Let's see what he comes up with. Whatever the case, NATO is based on agreements. NATO is a common protection that Sweden needs. Sweden needs to upgrade its own defence, but Sweden also needs common protection.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-691	Mr President, I would like to For the Christian Democrats, it is essential that foreign policy is value-based. Sweden shall stand up for and defend universal values such as human rights and freedoms, democracy and the rule of law in order to strengthen peace, freedom and development, and achieve understanding and reconciliation. Sweden's foreign policy is an expression of the fact that we all have a responsibility for each other. It is an expression that is fundamental to Christian-Democratic ideology. Human dignity is universal and can never be relativised by geographical boundaries. Today we are debating the cost and direction of foreign policy. What should be our priority? The area of international cooperation is important, not least in a troubled world. It is a world where cooperation and collaboration are central to preventing, managing and resolving conflicts. We must put an end to the war in Syria, an end to the brutality and genocide of the Islamic State/Daish, an end to Russian aggression. Unfortunately, the list of unrest and devastation in our surrounding world can be made long. It is an environment that places high demands on our international collaboration. The international bodies we collaborate within must deliver. Let us start with the European Union, Mr President. EU security policy developments face crucial challenges. The idea of an EU army is back on the agenda. Of course, we should welcome action to meet the deteriorating security situation. The increasingly authoritarian development of Russia has created a new security policy situation in Europe. It would be irresponsible for EU leaders not to see reality, but that an EU army would be the solution, we Christian Democrats do not believe. The need to develop the EU's crisis management capabilities, on the other hand, is clear, but let us not drift in a direction that does not favour our common objectives. For example, the Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should be the driving force for a review of the EU's fighting forces, known as battle groups, who are in constant readiness to participate in a rapid and limited effort, for example in the event of threatened genocide. However, the battle groups as such have never been deployed, and as a result the uncertainty surrounding the concept has increased. The opportunity to use them, however, has not been missed. As I said, the concerns of our world are obvious. The EU must be able to stand united against Russia and support the countries in the EU's neighbourhood. The Islamic State, Daish, has built its new base in the absolute vicinity of Europe, in Libya. Europe showed decisiveness when Gaddafi was to be overthrown, but then the forces seemed to run out. The decomposition of Libya shows what happens when there is no long-term roadmap. There was no interest in remaining and supporting a construction process, and today we see the consequences. The European Union must seriously resume this commitment. Support for the fight against terrorism and democratic development is crucial. Now that a common security policy is being formed, a long-term roadmap for future military interventions must be included. The UN is a unique and important organisation. No other organization gathers the world's states to work for peace and security. But it is also an organization with enormous problems. Sweden is a member of the United Nations along with a number of multifaceted countries, many with a view to democracy and human rights that differ considerably from our own. It is crucial that the UN accelerates the pace of reform. Without change, confidence in the UN will not last. Through the right of veto, the Security Council is constantly facing lockdowns. The inability to intervene when crimes against humanity and genocide are committed is shameful. But the General Assembly and its committees must also be modernised and streamlined. The shortcomings in the work of the UN Human Rights Council are also clear – perhaps no wonder, since the Council is made up of Member States that consistently violate the rights they are appointed to defend. The handling of whistleblowers at the UN became widely known as Anders Kompass sounded the alarm that peace-keeping soldiers committed sexual abuse of children in the Central African Republic. The afterplay for Compass came to be anything but acceptable. The fact that a person, in his belief in what is morally right, acts as whistleblowers can never and must never lead to the person who acts being accused of having acted wrongly. Yet that is exactly what Compass was subjected to. It shows a culture within the UN where employees do not feel that they can act when they encounter errors. This is an issue we Christian Democrats want to see Sweden prioritise in order to bring about change. The Christian Democrats want to see continued close cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, a collaboration where we work together to increase mobility and meet key challenges. Friendly exchanges in all honour, but Nordic cooperation must have added value. This must enable us to face up to future challenges together. The Christian Democrats therefore urge the government to continue to be the driving force for reforming our Nordic cooperation to become as effective and thus relevant as possible. Mr President, I would like to In our particular opinion, we Christian Democrats have made it clear that we would have liked to see a different distribution of funds in the field of International Cooperation expenditure. We believe that the bu dgetpost 1:2 should be raised by SEK 30 million in addition to the government's increase – not to invest funds only in peace diplomacy within the framework of the Security Council, but to be able to spend additional funds on Swedish participation in international peace-promoting efforts in a very troubled time. We do not believe that it is reasonable to continue to increase support to the Swedish Institute on the basis of current world conditions. We also believe that Nordic cooperation should be more cost-effective than it is today. Mr President, I would like to With these changes, we believe that we could have better met the challenges facing the world today.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-707	Mr President, I would like to We are all living at a time when the world is marked by war, by record numbers of refugees, by concern and also by uncertainty following a number of recent elections and referendums. It is this everyday life that we have to deal with in the Foreign Affairs Committee here in the Riksdag, and it is this everyday life that citizens in Sweden and around the world have on their retinas. Not for a long time has foreign policy and the situation in the world been so topical and discussed as widely among people as at present. I therefore welcome the fact that, despite some differences of opinion on exactly how money should be spent in this budget area, there is still broad support in the Swedish Parliament for values that have long-term characterized and will characterise Swedish foreign policy – regardless of which government is currently in charge of the country. This government, the Red-Green Government, is, of course, trying to make its mark on foreign policy and has four overall profile issues. It is about foreign and security policy having popular roots, that it is a feminist foreign policy we want to conduct, that peace and security in our neighbourhood is the primary objective and that the UN and the EU are the two most important arenas and tools for Swedish foreign policy. All the foreign policy that we pursue must be permeated by the work on human rights, democracy and respect for the principles of the rule of law. I cannot say that it is special for this particular government, but I would like to say that it is values that we all share widely in Parliament's parties. We want to see that this is what permeates Swedish foreign policy. Economically, of course, it is a bit different what we want to invest in. Perhaps most of all, you want to invest more in something. You rarely want to withdraw big money or say that something is completely wrong and that you would like to end it. In principle, there is no such example in the various proposals and motions in this area of expenditure. Financially, the larger and more notable posts are those about peace and security, about Nordic cooperation, about Sipri – Stockholm's International Peace Research Institute – and about Baltic Sea cooperation. The biggest financial item in this budget area is the one dealing with fees to international organisations. It is clear that it is a post that contains many different things in foreign policy and covers many different areas within it, but when all this is to be recorded, it will together be the largest part of the cost in this area of expenditure. Mr President, I would like to I think the most important thing about Swedish foreign and security policy is the values on which we base it, but also that it is long-term and predictable. It serves our country's development and security, and I hope that is something that we can maintain for a long time to come here in Sweden. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse the proposal contained in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report No 1.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-716	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Kenneth G. Forslund about the trade agreement with Canada. It has been negotiated for some time, and the results have to say were very successful. A large number of duties are now being completely eliminated or phased out over a number of years. On agricultural products, customs duties are falling sharply. It approves a lot of standards from Europe, including from the automotive industry, in Canada. The agreement opens the way for European service companies to enter Canada. It will be easier to invest on both sides of the Atlantic and easier, at least for highly skilled people, to move between countries temporarily through labour migration. This agreement was good in itself when it came, but now that we are seeing political shifts in the United States, it feels even more important to have a strong relationship with Canada. But then the agreement must be approved here in the Swedish Parliament too, and we have not heard much about that. I would therefore like to ask Kenneth G. Forslund when it will happen so that we can stick this through.
i-HM5cJQpn34sGhY3jrA4XVM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Sundin, for the question! I would like to go back to something that Mathias Sundin said in his speech when he mentioned the old classic sketch that all children want peace on earth. I'm not a child anymore, but my vision is peace on Earth. It sometimes makes me laugh when I say it in different contexts of meetings, but it is actually what drives me in my political action and in the work I do with Swedish foreign policy to create better conditions in the world. I therefore particularly appreciate the introduction of Mathias Sundin. Like Mathias Sundin, I welcome the fact that we have been able to meet the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement, which we call CETA. I believe that, as Mr Sundin says, it is particularly important in this uncertain time after the American presidential elections. In fact, the future of free trade in the next few years, if we are to be very honest and correct, would have been uncertain regardless of which of the two main candidates has been elected. With regard to the time of ratification here in Sweden and in Parliament, unfortunately, I cannot answer the question of a precise timetable, but I would nevertheless like to point out that, like Mathias Sundin, I welcome the agreement and look forward to being able to ratify it. I also note that the agreement has actually improved on its way here by renegotiating and modernising the dispute settlement mechanism. I think it was bold and wise to choose to do this when the agreement was actually concluded. It has become a very good agreement, which I believe and hope can be style-forming for similar agreements worldwide.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-723	Mr President, I would like to We all want to go home, so I'll be brief. It honors you, Kenneth G. Forslund, that you have such a drive; I think it is very good. We seem to agree that this is a good agreement with Canada, and we need to move forward together so that we can quickly join this in Parliament.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-725	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with Mathias Sundin's hope that we will be able to ratify the agreement in the near future.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-726	Mr President, I would like to Of course, when we use the wide brushes, there is much that we agree on. We have a broad consensus that we want a strong international legal order and that we want to ensure that democracy and respect for human rights, women's rights and gender equality are widely disseminated so that as many people as possible can take part in it. That sounds good, and that's where we agree. I note that we have no responsible minister here, and it will therefore be in this debate that Kenneth G. Forslund will be responsible for the government's policy. In the list of all the challenges we face and in the catalogue of all the good things we want to achieve, one can easily lose focus. That is really what I am now asking for. The whole direction of the budget is about all the good that Sweden can do – and then we are not even in the area of aid expenditure. However, Sweden will always have limited resources, not only in terms of money, but also in terms of organisation and people who will do the work. What does Kenneth G Forslund see? What are the main priorities? Are we supposed to be in every place at the same time? Should we work together with all organisations, or how should we best pursue and take advantage of Sweden's interests, where these fundamental values are of course included? How does the Red-Green Government, with the support of the committee chairman, believe that this priority should be pursued? Focus is what I am calling for!
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-730	Mr President, I would like to What Karin Enström is referring to is absolutely right: priority must always be given, especially in economic contexts. I note that all eight parties in Parliament make relatively similar priorities in terms of money. If each party were to describe exactly how it wanted to use the money in each of the sub-areas of expenditure, I think the differences would be somewhat greater. The goals are still broad and common, but you have different focusses on how you think you can best get there and which actions provide the most exchange. For this government, in whose parliamentary basis I am involved, it is essential that we are a small country that depends on well-functioning international institutions. For our own security and security – and ultimately our long-term survival as a nation – the UN is central. For us as a Member State of the European Union, the European Union is also today a central arena for our Swedish foreign policy. Our work prioritises peace and security in the immediate region. Then we do a lot of different things. Internationally, there is also a great demand for Sweden to participate in a lot of different things, so it is a delicate task to prioritize and choose what we should spend time and money on. But peace and security in our neighbourhood, I think, is the most fundamental priority of our foreign policy.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-734	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that message! My supplementary question is, of course, what analysis is behind that priority, but also how this is to be done. The priority is peace and security in our neighbourhood, hopefully also for our own sake, in order to preserve our independence and peace, but how will we see this in the work of the government? My question concerns both cooperation and the focus of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in all its contacts and work within this framework. How is it going to run the priority that Kenneth G Forslund points out?
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-735	Mr President, I would like to As I pointed out, the UN and the EU are the central arenas for us. Since we became a member of the EU in 1995, Sweden has been one of the most proactive states with the greatest impact on EU cooperation. We have been able to see that Sweden, regardless of government, has always been quite high in the rankings of which Member States are most influential. In addition, the size of our country's population should be taken into account in this large cooperation. We are skilled at driving the work of international organisations – in the UN, in the EU and in other contexts. It is precisely that, by continuing to be very active in these international organisations, that I think we best serve the purpose that I think is most important: peace and security in the immediate region. We will continue to make constant efforts to be skilled, to negotiate, to seek broad solutions and to push the processes forward. We are good at it in Sweden, and I would like to point out that we have been good at it regardless of which government has ruled. I hope we will continue to be.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-738	Mr President, I would like to Today is actually a big day for me. About four years ago, I began to reflect on the role of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Sweden in international conflicts and mediation. I felt that we should be able to get even more pointed about this. As a result, I brought a motion to the Congress of the Green Party. It was rejected. But I continued to work very hard on these issues when I entered the Riksdag and so on. As we decide on this budget, we are actually deciding on the very secretariat that I proposed. It is very fun that Sofia Damm and Kerstin Lundgren give strong support for this mediation secretariat. I can say that there is indeed content in this. It is a total allocation of SEK 25 million. These days people are recruited to sit in a mediation secretariat in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Then there will be people with excellence in conflict and mediation around the world. This is supposed to be long-term. It is not something that should last for just the two years that we sit on the Security Council, even though it is, of course, linked to this work. Now Sweden will be able to remain at the forefront when it comes to mediating conflicts around the world. Several other countries have done so in the past. Mr President, I would like to Each year, the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) publishes a major report called Global Trends. The last report was entitled Forced Displacement, i.e. forced displacement. The year before was the title World at War. It says something about the world in which we live today. It also says something about the central perspective that we should have in mind when formulating and debating Sweden's policy in this area and also about the focus that the government has had in this area. We need to engage in peace and security in an environment where threats are more serious than they have been for a long time, and where the security policy situation in Europe and in our neighbourhood is actually the most serious in 25 years. The development of the rest of the world in recent years has been characterised by greater uncertainty, more conflicts, more violence and large flows of refugees. We all know what is happening in Somalia, in Afghanistan, in Ukraine, in the Central African Republic and in Yemen, just to name a few of the war cores that the world has. And we know not least what is happening in Syria, where perhaps as many as 400 000 people have lost their lives, and 11 million people are on the run. Last Friday I had the great honor of presenting the White Helmets at the Right Livelihood Award Ceremony. It was an extremely strong experience to introduce them. The white helmets are voluntary forces – about 3,000 people – who in Syria are waiting for the bombers to arrive, and then run there and excavate people from the rubble. Thanks to them, 62 000 people are alive today. It is a shame that the international community has not been able to put an end to this conflict. By the end of last year, more than 65 million people were on the run in the world. This is no less than a humanitarian disaster. It is a tragic development, especially since the long-term trend in the past has been that we are moving towards a less violent world. Mr President, I would like to The main challenges facing us today are cross-border. We won't be able to handle them successfully unless we work globally. It is a great pleasure that Sweden will join the UN Security Council in January. This is the third time in history that Sweden has a two-year seat in the Council, in the very heart of the peace organisation that the United Nations is. Of course, the Security Council is not free from problems, rather the other way around. The right of veto is used too often there. Nevertheless, this is the body at our disposal today when it comes to negotiating and discussing the conflicts that exist around the world. Then it is very important that we get in there and really stand up for our feminist foreign policy. It is about getting women into the peace processes, getting women to come to the mediation table, getting women to join in the peace-making process and negotiating how to build a society at the end of the peace process. It is about that we can come in there and focus on not withdrawing as soon as the fire of the conflict has stopped but that one should continue to exist. Most countries that come out of a conflict have not been given the resources to rebuild society and to create the structures needed in a society to avoid falling back into conflict again. Sweden will also work to democratise the Security Council and increase transparency. The work of the UN will remain a cornerstone. Sweden has a strong commitment to the UN, and that will be reflected in the diverse support that we have through all parts of the organisation. This applies not least to peace-keeping and conflict prevention. Mr President, I would like to For me as a feminist and environmentalist, it is particularly gratifying that our government is pursuing a feminist foreign policy. It is clearly expressed within the framework of Sweden's international commitment to peace, disarmament and stability. With these words, I just want to say that, with these resources and with the efforts we are now making, we will hopefully help to have a world where we will not have to see more reports with titles such as Forced Displacement and World at War, although we certainly have a long way to go. I believe in peace on earth. I support the proposal and the proposal contained in the committee's report.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-752	Mr President, I would like to A functioning tax system and a functioning payment system are the basis for the functioning of an economic system. It is our three fiscal authorities, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten, that will ensure the function. The taxes we decide on must be perceived as reasonable, and the purpose of the tax system must not be misunderstood. Legitimacy, legal certainty and transparency must permeate all aspects of what we in this House are deciding on and the effects of which, to a large extent, our three authorities will then deal with. For the legitimacy of the tax system and for the proper functioning of the economy, it is of great importance that tax changes can be understood by those who are required to pay taxes. Mr President, I would like to Allow me to highlight two actions in the tax system which are of particular importance. Firstly, legislative processes must include comprehensive impact assessments. It is only through impact assessments that we as legislators can get the overall picture of what effects tax and legislative changes can be assumed to have. Secondly, an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur should be able to engage in their activities. If you do the right thing, contact with the Tax Agency should ideally only be a routine administrative task that runs smoothly and easily. Here, a responsible task rests on the Swedish Tax Agency to provide relevant information and ensure that tax processes are clear. It is therefore gratifying that confidence in the Swedish Tax Agency has increased over a number of years. Ensuring the payment of determined taxes in a legally secure and effective manner is a prerequisite for financing important public activities and of the insurance and security systems. It is also a question of equal treatment and safeguarding trust in the public sector. Mr President, I would like to The Tax Committee has an increasing international connection. It is important because of the increased movement of people, goods, businesses and capital that both the European Union and the globalisation of the economy have brought about and which places more demands on our work and on the work of the authorities. At the same time, major regulatory and regulatory processes are underway at both international and EU level, particularly in the field of taxation. This will have a major impact on Swedish legislation in the future. Mr President, I would like to The Finnish Customs has shown that the flow of medicines, such as antibiotics, has increased and that consignments coming from another EU country cannot be seized. This is a gap that the Center Party wants to close. We see it as justified to change the regulatory framework because over-use of antibiotics is a major threat to human health. We propose that the Customs Agency be given the power to seize antibiotics even if it comes from another EU country. The task of the Customs Agency is, among other things, to simplify legal trade and prevent illegal trade by offering flexible customs procedures for foreign trade, simple border crossings for travellers and effective border protection. In a Europe that is discussing more controls between countries today, we need to stop and see what effects this has on trade and mobility for citizens. The positive effects that our openness has brought us must not be pushed back. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority are central to the Swedish legal society. Both individuals and businesses must have confidence in what the authorities do. Predictability and clear rules are therefore crucial. I would like to return to the legitimacy of the levying of taxes. The legitimacy of the population presupposes that our authorities are present throughout the country. This is particularly true of the authorities with which the vast majority of us come into contact. The services of our three authorities The Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten are improving and will continue to improve, which means an increasingly widespread use of e-services. This will of course also be developed as a modern and well-functioning service, but the presence of the state throughout the country is central to society at large. It is central to the exercise of authority, to the efficiency of the state administration itself, to growing businesses and to ordinary people. Mr President, I would like to Creative people should see the state as a support and not as a limiting force, but as an anchor in reality. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 2, which is a centre party reservation, and reservation 4, which is an alliance reservation.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-764	Mr President, I would like to I really just have a short question for the Center Party and Per Åsling. I note that, in your draft budget, you are cutting back on the appropriations for the Swedish Enforcement Authority and do not want to finance the work on debt restructuring, Per Åsling. There will be a new debt restructuring act that will come into force. I think it is a pity and a little remarkable. The Center Party has previously pushed for debt restructuring, not least for bankrupt entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to ask why the Center Party no longer wants to push forward in this work. It's something that's very important.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-766	Mr President, I would like to As far as the appropriations for the authorities are concerned, the Centre Party has reduced the salary and cost scale. We do so because, as I said in my speech, we believe it is urgent that authorities use the possibility of decentralising activities and being present throughout the country. In general, authorities should move to cheaper places when they can. Let me take an example. In recent years, the Swedish Tax Agency has moved the Stockholm division from Magnus Ladulåsgatan on Söder in Stockholm to Solna beach in Solna. With this, you have a yearly rental reduction of SEK 90 million. Yes, Rasmus Ling, you heard correctly- you save 90 million kronor annually. We believe that there is a great potential to save on government agencies by locating elsewhere. That is also why I was very active last year when the Swedish Tax Agency announced the closure of a number of offices. It is important that the Swedish Tax Agency remains, and I am pleased to note that it was also the position of the Swedish Tax Agency. The government also played an important role there. Now we see how development and growth are created in places that risked losing offices last year. The offices are still there, and employment is now increasing.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-769	Mr President, I would like to It's great that we have worked together to ensure that different authorities are located in different places around the country, but the question I asked was about something else. You write in your budget option that you do not want to give extra money for the work on debt restructuring, Per Åsling. For entrepreneurs in particular, this is important. There is a great risk of starting your own business, and those who have been affected by this and who have been put into debt are often family-owned companies. They're catering companies, restaurants, haulage companies or other things. Reducing the risk and making more people dare to take the step is an important part of business policy. I find it sad that the Centre Party has left what was pushed for in the last period, Mr President. On the issue of location, which Per Åsling raises, they did not work in the same way strategically as the new government has actually done. The Government has a directed mission to Statskontoret regarding a new strategy for this. However, I thank you very much for your answer.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-772	Mr President, I would like to I really have nothing to add. I answered your question, Rasmus Ling, and I hope the message came out: we have ensured in our budget that debt adjustment can continue to take place. This is to be done within the framework of the government appropriations we have in our budget option – in this case, this is the allocation to the Swedish Enforcement Authority – and I described in my reply how we believe that agencies can be more cost-effective. They can reduce the costs they currently have, including in the area of rents, and use that money aggressively to create better development. In this case, it is about better development for companies by carrying out, among other things, deleveraging.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-774	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the part of the budget dealing with the resources for the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. These authorities play an extremely important role in Swedish society. We have every reason to be proud of them. Competent and independent authorities are one of Sweden's strengths. They are important to trust and to make it easy to do the right thing. These authorities are also well advanced compared to many colleagues in other countries, not least in terms of services to citizens and the use of IT support. Trust in the authorities is also linked to the policy pursued and the regulatory framework that the authorities are set to maintain. Confidence in our tax system requires a reasonable tax policy characterised by the fact that it is always profitable to work. When the alliance government ruled, it also became more profitable to work, especially for those with low incomes. This mattered. Tax revenues increased markedly, but also tax morale. Mr President, I would like to It is people at work who build Sweden strong. It is people at work who create the conditions for safe care, for a good school and for us to feel safe. That is why it is our duty as politicians to clear every path that can lead to jobs. We do this with our budget for a stronger Sweden. Central to this budget is that it should pay better to work. We want lower thresholds into the labour market. We want to see that it pays better to move from grants to work and that it pays better to start up and run a business. We want to see Sweden at the forefront of the growing collaborative economy. We also want to see greater opportunities for those who come here from war and oppression to get their first job here. In Sweden, you should do the right thing. No one who could make a living can take the right to live on others. But it is not only when people exploit our welfare systems that they betray Sweden. Our country is equally betrayed by those who choose not to contribute to society by not paying their taxes. Those who slip away from the treasure place the burden of building a strong and cohesive society on others. We can never accept this. We are therefore proposing a number of concrete measures to combat tax evasion. One of them is that the Swedish Tax Agency should be given a special task to strengthen its efforts to combat tax evasion. Since 2006, more than 40 international tax agreements have passed the Riksdag table and led to a significant increase in the inflow of capital from countries with which Sweden has entered into agreements. But tax evasion is constantly in danger of finding new ways. It is therefore important that the Swedish Tax Agency works to identify possible new countries that can be used for tax evasion. We invest in our budget SEK 50 million extra in the Swedish Tax Agency's fight against tax evasion. I note that this is SEK 35 million more than the government is investing. Another area where we must constantly be on our toes is in the rapidly growing collaborative economy. The sharing economy is changing and challenging our traditional notions of how to shape future tax systems. That is why we believe that it should be part of the Tax Agency's mission to improve support for buyers and sellers in the sharing economy in order to simplify administration and ensure that tax payments are actually made in the right way. Mr President, I would like to Entrepreneurs often face unnecessary barriers and high administrative costs to drive their business forward. We constantly want to work to improve the conditions for companies and for new companies to be set up. We must do this if we are to safeguard our future well-being. We are in favour of the new customs law, which is dealt with in this report, but unfortunately the law is yet another example of when the government makes proposals without carrying out a proper impact assessment. We have repeatedly pointed this out in the Committee on Taxation on the part of the Alliance, and sometimes also on the part of the whole committee. Companies and we as legislators must be able to get a picture of what new rules mean. How much more administration affects businesses? Is it worth it? How can we make it easier for them – perhaps especially for small businesses? Here the government broke down in its proposal for a new customs law. For example, the investigation did not provide an estimate of the costs incurred by companies in meeting the new requirements for electronic customs treatment, although it is likely to be burdensome for small companies to invest in updating computer systems or new electronic systems, which is necessary to meet the new requirements of the law. A follow-up to the application of the law should therefore be carried out in order to examine how it has affected the costs of small businesses. That is why I support the Alliance's reservation 4. The Moderates' draft budget is a coherent whole. As Parliament has endorsed in stage one of the Framework Decision the Government's proposal for a financial framework for the state budget and a focus on budgetary policy, we are not taking part in the current decision on the distribution of appropriations in Category 3.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-789	Mr President, I would like to Since the financial framework has already been decided by the Parliament, we will refrain from taking part in the decision on the proposal for appropriations made by the Committee on Taxation under paragraph 1 of the report. However, I would like to ask for reservation 1 in paragraph 2. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten have a central role in our society in that they, each with their part, are responsible for the financing of other social functions. It is therefore essential that these authorities carry out their respective tasks in a legally secure, efficient and rational manner. In order for them to be able to do this, the Riksdag must ensure that they are given the conditions necessary for it to be possible to respond to the high demands. The legitimacy of the tax system is also a prerequisite for the success of the task. The authorities have many important tasks, both on their own and in collaboration with each other and with many other actors. A fundamental one is to maintain good tax and payment standards in society as a whole. The authorities must actively anticipate, prevent and prosecute crimes against the tax and customs territories, and they must also be active service providers to both companies and individuals. All of this should be quick, effective and secure. The activities and budget of the authorities are regulated by the Government's regulatory letter. As a basis for these, the authorities deliver various types of follow-up and budget demands based on previous activities. On the basis of the budgets and activity descriptions of recent years, as well as the review of numerous case studies and their consequences, we have made the assessment that there are major differences between the authorities' mandates and the resources to build their business. The problems of the Customs Agency have been created when both social democratic governments and alliance governments have eroded the Customs' budget by unfunded tasks being charged to the work. This has forced rather drastic staff cuts and a significantly worse presence at our border crossings, with negative consequences. Many local offices have been decommissioned, which has reduced the level of service provided to businesses. It may be of interest to note that the Customs Agency has primarily been heavily underfunded for several years, which has resulted in a significant deterioration in the performance of the Customs Agency's objectives. The result is a sharp increase in the smuggling of everything from alcohol and tobacco to drugs, weapons and much more. It has also resulted in a significant deterioration in the services provided by clearance operations to companies. In summary, these reductions in operational capacity have had serious consequences for Swedish society. We see major problems, which must be rectified, in the areas of Customs. The Swedish Tax Agency is also facing major challenges in the important work of dealing with the problems that have arisen in the area of corporate tax due to the negative consequences of globalisation. Work on tax treaties is another of the important issues that require increased focus. However, the investment there has been scaled down over the last 20 years in Sweden, which is serious. Mr President, I would like to To give our authorities a reasonable chance to regain lost land – especially in areas related to border protection and law enforcement, but also in terms of service to companies and individuals – we have budgeted 50 million more than the government to the Swedish Tax Agency. We have also budgeted 275 million more per year to the Customs Agency than the government has. The focus on the initiatives we consider necessary is as follows: Services need to be developed and improved through even more efficient electronic functions. In this context, it may be appropriate to pay great tribute to our authorities for the fact that, despite their problems with lack of resources, they have succeeded very well in creating well-functioning electronic systems that facilitate and streamline their operations. But more is needed. We need to reduce the credit risk in society through proactive work to avoid risk behaviour. We need to combat tax evasion and fight crime. Increased cooperation between authorities and between authorities and municipalities is an important issue in order to succeed in this. We need a stronger focus on business-friendly and legally secure public authority. Mr President, I would like to The other parties seem to find it difficult to take on board the reality and all the signals that alert us about the problems that our authorities are facing. The most perplexing thing, however, is that the Alliance is partly divided on the issue and partly does not react, even though the rhetoric shows that it at least sees a large part of the problem. Both the government parties and the Alliance, partly with the exception of the Liberals, continue to reduce resources to our authorities, despite the obvious imbalances that are evident. Mr President, I would like to It would be good if, in the further debate, we received answers from the other parties to why we do not want the Customs Agency to be able to act effectively enough against drug smuggling, arms, tobacco and everything else. It would be good if we received answers from the other parties to why the Swedish Tax Agency should not have sufficient resources to fulfil its mission to develop its methods and increase efforts in the area of tax control and thus be able to prosecute tax fraud more effectively. It would also be good if we received answers from the other parties to why they do not want the authorities to be given the necessary powers to deal with serious organised crime, as we know.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-808	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservations 3 and 4, and I have done so. I'm going to talk about a law that we haven't made in this House, Moore's law. The prediction about 50 years ago that the processing capacity of our computers would be doubled approximately every two years has proved to be very accurate. After a while with a number of such doublings it is becoming very difficult for us humans to understand such exponential growth. We live in a linear world. We get up in the morning and go to bed at night. My hair retreated linearly over the years until I grabbed it and cut it off completely. When the processing capacity has doubled as many times as now, it is difficult for us to keep up, not only for a simple Member of Parliament but also for the world-leading researchers in the field. A little over ten years ago, they looked at this at MIT and Harvard in the United States and assessed in what areas we could see major changes over the next ten years, based on technological developments. There was one area where it was said that nothing would happen in the foreseeable future, that we might have to wait 30 to 40 years, namely self-driving cars. They said: There is so much information to bring in that computers will not be able to process it, so we will not see that for a very long time. Now we have self-driving cars on our roads. We have the Tesla cars, and Volvo is on its way out with such cars in Gothenburg. They are already being tested in Pittsburgh, for example. They are not perfectly functioning yet but have come a long way. I believe that we politicians must take this development into account in order to use the opportunities available. We see artificial intelligence in healthcare that is already better at identifying some cancers than human doctors are. We have to let technology get into school. We have major transport capabilities in drones. And not least, more linked to this area, the tax area, we have a large number of successful companies in Sweden, start-up companies. The names are now quite well known: Klarna, Skype, Minecraft, Spotify and several others. Now one might ask what this has to do with a tax debate. But we believe from the Liberals that it is time to really think about a new broad tax reform. The last one made was 1991. It was before the internet, cell phones and smartphones. That was before the world was being connected. A great deal of tax reform can, of course, last for a long time, while we will have to change other things. The sharing economy, which is emerging, is one of the areas where policy needs to be very adaptable and to change regulation. There are great opportunities for the collaborative economy companies to develop but also that they create a lot of simple jobs that many, such as refugees, may need. We have had problems at an early stage with some of these companies not paying taxes. Here it is very important that the Swedish Tax Agency opens its systems, so that it is easy to build solutions so that it will be easy to do the right thing and pay the taxes. Everything is digital, so it's not a difficult problem. An important point in a major tax reform is that with an increasing need for higher education and knowledge in society, education must be more profitable. We also believe that we will have to shift the tax base from labour income to consumption, not because consumption is bad, but because it is less harmful for the economy to levy taxes there. If we make these changes, I am absolutely convinced that Sweden has its best days ahead. Let me conclude, Mr President, with the tu, to which we add just over SEK 40 million more than the government in our draft budget. We think it's very smart to spend money on the Tullverket. We know that a great deal is smuggled into Sweden, which then leads to crime, when it is to be sold or handled in different ways, which the police have to deal with once it is inside the country. If we can stop this right at the border, it's the smart use of the money. Apart from the fact that some people don't want things in the country, it's a smart and efficient use of the money. The police are under a lot of pressure and have been so especially for the past year. In other areas of expenditure, we have extra spending on the police, but a strengthened customs service can also relieve the police.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-820	Mr President, I would like to We, as citizens throughout the country, assume that the state will take care of the tasks that they are required to do, such as ensuring national security, ensuring that schooling, childcare and care work and are of the best quality possible throughout the country. We also assume that when we get older we will receive a pension that is actually viable. For this to work, we need an economy that breathes order. An important element of a balanced economy is to maintain tax morality, to combat tax evasion and to ensure that illegal goods do not enter the country, or, for that matter, to counteract the existence of smuggling and endanger health or eliminate the balance of the market. In the opinion of the Christian Democrats, the purpose of taxes is to finance public expenditure, to steer economic development in a social and ecological direction and to mitigate the spread of income. At the same time, too high taxes are liable to impair the functioning of the economy and lead to unsound economic behaviour. The aim must therefore be that the tax system is transparent and ethically legitimate. It is also important that it is designed to stimulate work, honesty, savings and entrepreneurship. The tax system shall be designed to allow the individual to retain his or her own salary or pension as far as possible before the payment of supplementary contributions. As an opposition politician, one can consider whether the government's new tax forces are responsible for stimulating work, entrepreneurship and honesty. Kilometer tax, airline tax, entrepreneurial tax, increased tax for everyone with income above about 37,000 per month, increased employers' tax for young people, reintroduction of special wage tax for older people over 65, halved RUT, bank tax and profit limitations in welfare – the list can be made longer. These are some of the sixty treasures they have devoted their interest to. My clear view is that some of these taxes may, of course, be justified from the point of view of environmental considerations or other considerations. However, as a whole and in the image that emerges, it is a policy that does not promote entrepreneurship, does not promote work and does not promote responsibility. My call to the government is to stop the tax iver and make a greater analysis of where we are going and where you take Sweden. We must reward people taking responsibility in the form of running businesses, going to their jobs and paying the taxes imposed on them by the state. In a globalised economy, the capital tax system is mainly exposed to competition. Capital taxes must therefore be competitive. Taxation of income, goods, services, real estate, wealth or other forms of taxation shall not undermine ownership and shall be designed in accordance with fiscal principles such as tax after viability and equal treatment. The tax system will contribute to a good climate for entrepreneurship and promote self-responsibility. It is also important that tax rules are designed as easily as possible to facilitate, among other things, small businesses. The design and change of taxes are extremely important for small and medium-sized enterprises based on their long-term perspective and their survival. We know that the new jobs are coming to small businesses, and then, as a parliament, we should make it easier for small businesses and not, as it now seems, push ourselves into everything to tax it as hard as possible. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten have fundamental importance for a well-functioning economy characterised by order and order. The services of the three authorities to citizens and entrepreneurs should continue to be improved. Further development of e-services is essential. At the same time, service offices are important for people who are not yet as comfortable with electronic communication as the rest of us are. The authorities therefore need to continue to have a good physical presence throughout the country. The Swedish tax base should be protected. While there is a need for European harmonisation, it is important to protect Swedish interests in this context. Maintaining the credibility of the tax system depends on counteracting and reducing the black economy. It is not compatible with good ethics and good social responsibility to withhold the tax that is the basis for the welfare we have in Sweden. Tax decisions taken in good democratic order must be complied with. Otherwise, the financing of welfare risks being eroded. The IRS will continue its efforts to repress the black economy. It is particularly important that the Authority maintains its high levels of public confidence. These, too, help to maintain tax standards. We welcome the Government's desire for the Swedish Tax Agency to step up efforts to combat tax offences, tax evasion and tax evasion. We therefore, like the Government, allocate 15 million in 2017 and 30 million in 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively for the purpose. We want to increase the Swedish Enforcement Authority's funding by SEK 10 million per year 2017 – 2020 to prevent over-indebtedness and to avoid long processing times. In 2015, the number of children affected by executed evictions increased. We want the bailiff to give priority to families with children and, through special efforts to combat over-indebtedness, try to reduce the number of children affected. Mr President, I would like to I support the Alliance's reservation, No 4.
i-CEhaJNhwUhEGDLUuZC6j6y	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved on the appropriations for the three authorities, the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. In the report, the committee supports the Government's proposal for appropriations for Category 3 totalling SEK 11 billion in 2017. A high level of confidence and stable development for the Swedish economy is ensured through a clear regulatory framework and a responsible policy for investment in jobs and sustainable growth. A broad parliamentary commitment behind the fiscal framework lays the foundations for an economic policy in which order and order in public finances contribute to good economic development and to safeguarding well-being. These three authorities are central to our government for tax collection, customs and recovery. The budget proposes some initiatives. Work on implementing the ten-point programme against tax evasion negotiated by the Government and the Left Party continues. The budget proposes increased resources for the Swedish Tax Agency for combating tax offences, tax evasion and tax evasion. In the wake of both Luxleaks and Panamaleaks, it has been shown that Swedish citizens also participate in the global tax evasion to low-taxed paradise islands and mountain kingdoms such as Liechtenstein. Thankfully, the G20, the OECD and the EU are closing this tax evasion window through various international and European agreements. It is extremely challenging to see how large groups and rich elites pay less tax than ordinary SMEs and low and middle earners. There needs to be a real shame factor in cheating and trixing. Nor should the link with criminal professions and terrorism in tax evasion and tax evasion be underestimated. Criminals and terrorists don't want to account for income and assets. Halting their income and seizing their assets are effective measures against their activities. We Social Democrats have welcomed the OECD's so-called BEPS project and the legislation that followed in the project with different rules and procedures. Cooperation within the EU and decisions in this House on tax agreements between countries are very important. It is also a way of supporting and helping developing countries. We oppose corruption, allow countries to increase their tax revenues and promote genuine democratic development. The authorities shall continue to participate in the fight against organised crime on the basis of their respective areas of competence. Mr President, I would like to In order to get real momentum towards tax evasion here at home, the Swedish Tax Agency's funding is temporarily increased by 15 million in 2017 and 30 million in 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively. The authorities in the field of expenditure shall make it easier for citizens and businesses to do their own thing. Those who come into contact with the authorities should have uniform treatment and trust in a legally secure regulatory system. Women and men shall be given equal opportunities and conditions in contacts with these authorities. The rules and procedures that the authorities themselves have in place should be as simple as possible. In order to strengthen legitimacy, these should be understandable and not lead to excessive administrative costs for those who will apply the rules. The benefits of simplification should always be balanced against the need to ensure recovery and revenue and to counter errors and fraud. Mr President, I would like to Controls and sanctions aim to strengthen and maintain standards in order to comply with regulations. Continued changes and efficiency improvements in this area are necessary to meet future requirements. Standardisation and automation of workflows as well as the development of digital services to streamline is of great importance. However, this does not necessarily mean centralising activities. The development of the authorities will improve the service to citizens and businesses and, as appropriate, build on common solutions for our government. We believe that more needs to be done to prosecute tax evasion. We have already proposed a wide range of measures, and some have already been decided in this House. These are tax agreements, as one previous speaker described, and on human resources, monthly reports and so on. This is of course important for income to the state, but it is at least as important to have competition neutrality between companies and that the conditions for employees in companies are reasonable.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-854	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to thank the government and the Social Democrats for working together to combat tax evasion. We are trying to help each other in the best way, and I think that the cooperation works quite well. That makes me happy. What I would like to ask a few questions about is what I called tax-given in my speech, that is to say that you have all the conceivable new taxes that you want to introduce and which create problems in the labour market and for entrepreneurs. I think mostly of the so-called entrepreneurial tax, or the 3:12 rule. There is a study proposal which removes the legs of many small businesses, both in terms of the simplification rule, which is significantly reduced by lowering the floor, and in terms of the general rule, which changes the percentages of the salary set. I would like to know whether the government is prepared to discuss how it can be done in a much more tasteful way for small businesses and whether it is open to dialogue or whether it intends to push this through in Parliament without considering what problems it creates for small businesses.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-858	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Larry Söder! This is a proposal that has been put forward by an investigator, and it will now be referred to. The government is open to dialogue to get a good proposal. There is a consultation but also an opportunity to discuss this important issue between parties. As has been said, however, this is not what we are dealing with in today's report, but we are dealing with the budget of the Tax Agency, the Customs Agency and the Enforcement Authority. To answer the question, the investigation has come up with a proposal, which is now being referred. Now there will be political discussions, and we must hope that there will be a good proposal to this House when this will then be decided in the autumn budget. Mr President, I would like to We are discussing the expenditure area budget. It is gratifying that the Christian Democrats support the investment of SEK 15 million to the Swedish Tax Agency for 2017. But I'm a little curious about how you get your finances together, Larry, given that in your budget option you reduce the framework by 40,877,000.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-862	Mr President, I would like to Since we do not have the government's tax revenue, we cannot, of course, spend as much money, but we think that the money is most useful to the individual or to companies in order to create new jobs. Of course the government has more money to spend. That is what I fear: that we will be here next year discussing taxes, customs and executions, and that the government will continue to overwhelm the cup and that an entrepreneurial tax has been introduced that knocks away the bones of small businesses. I am going to rephrase my question on the entrepreneurial tax and the 3:12 rule, which I am very concerned about: do the Social Democrats have concerns that the proposals of the inquiry will hit small businesses in the way I describe, that is, that many small businesses will choose not to hire a new person and perhaps even choose to do something completely different instead of having a business, that is, to go to a job instead? I think this is much worse for Sweden. Then the government will not get the same tax base to cut next year. I think this is a subject and I would like an answer.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-866	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important issue for entrepreneurs and for Sweden's growth. There are many parts of the proposals that the consultation bodies will have to consider and which we will then have to evaluate. One is the change of generation within a company. The second is the principles that have existed when it comes to people with very high salaries in the companies having switched from wages to dividends. One thing to consider is how to stimulate entrepreneurship but not tax evasion. This is an important part of the discussions on the 3:12 rules. We will see what the consultation sessions describe and what the discussions between parties can give us in order to get good rules for entrepreneurs, so that we can get growth. I'm saying you didn't have an answer, Larry Söder. Like the government, you're spending 15 million on the Tax Agency-- that's very good for combating tax evasion and tax evasion-- but you're cutting the grant by 40,877,000.
i-f2d6ba26c7be22ae-870	Mr President, I would like to This evening we are debating Category 3 and the appropriations for the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Customs Agency. There are three important authorities to which we allocate almost SEK 11 billion, in order to maintain the tax system, the willingness to pay and control goods entering our country. He who is in debt is not free, they say at times. Too many people are over-indebted in Sweden today. This has many different negative consequences, for the individual often in the form of ill health and a limited life. There are very few, if any, incentives to work and make money because they disappear immediately. It also has consequences for the environment – it is perhaps the worst for any children – but also for society in general when there are no incentives for work. A new debt restructuring act is about to take effect. It is very important and can enable more people to get out of a terrible situation. The bailiff's efforts to improve debt restructuring are a priority, and they receive special money in the allocation for this. The bailiff also plays an important role in the fight against serious organised crime. Last autumn, a special government mission on cooperation was given to eleven different authorities. When the police make raids on mc gangs or other criminal gangs and these have assets on them, better collaboration can enable the bailiff to take the assets at the raid. We have to pursue organised criminals in every way we can and counter them when they try to outshine our society of justice. Of course, the Tax Agency has an extremely important role to play in this matter. They are given additional tools to fight the black economy in different ways. In the proposal, the Government also makes a special effort against tax evasion and tax evasion. I have said this before, but it is worth repeating: the work against serious organised crime is not only a matter for the police, but also very much for other authorities. We are pushing for this politically, and we must continue to do even more. The IRS has a job to do when it comes to trust. It is high in the measurements that exist, but the management has made mistakes over the past year and must work to restore confidence. The Liberals and Mathias Sundin talked about a number of interesting things about technological development and the need for digitalisation, which all our authorities need to work with. He also raised the issue of tax reform. That is something that we need to talk more about between the parties, how such a thing could be done. There are many things that have happened since the last one, on the one hand, technological developments, digitalisation and everything that is related to it, and on the other hand, other changes that we need to address. In the environmental field, we need to find ways to curb global warming, and taxes are often a good and cost-effective way to tackle emissions. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
