i-7zJkExqEVghtDDbtWgVN2g	Mr President, I would like to The KU5 concerns the follow-up to Parliament's application of the principle of subsidiarity. In accordance with Chapter 7, the Constitutional Committee shall: Section 8 The parliamentary order follows the application of the principle of subsidiarity and communicates its observations to the House once a year. This report to Parliament presents the results of the follow-up carried out in 2014. The report also contains opinions from other parliamentary committees. The principle of subsidiarity is that decisions should be taken as effectively as possible and as closely as possible to the citizens. It is used to determine whether an issue should be decided at EU or Member State level. This is an important issue which deserves much more attention than it has received so far, Mr President, because it is really about the division of powers between the national parliaments and the European Union. It is also important from a democratic point of view that Swedish citizens feel that decisions taken are not far from them and that decisions are anchored in everyday Swedish life. I will also add that the influence of national parliaments came to be strengthened in connection with the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon, including through the possibility of subsidiarity review introduced and the possibility of giving a subsidiarity warning. It is important for Parliament to apply the possibility created by the Treaty of Lisbon and that, together with other national parliaments, we can either influence the content of a legislative proposal or even prevent further consideration of the legislative proposal. Mr President, I would like to I will comment on some of the selected parts of this report which I still think are important to highlight. The first part deals with the European Commission's justifications. Article 5 of Protocol No 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality provides that the draft legislative acts are to be justified with regard to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. This applies whether the Commission or someone else is the proposer. A shortcoming we have seen from the past and which unfortunately remains related to the Commission's justifications for its legislative proposals, that is to say, the justification that a legislative proposal is best suited to be decided at Union level. The follow-up in this report covers 58 subsidiarity reviews carried out in the Riksdag in 2014. Among these, 9 out of 58 drafts were missing, i.e. 15% of all drafts. This in itself represents a quantitative improvement compared to the previous follow-up, which was carried out in 2014 and applied to the 2013 subsidiarity tests. Several of the committees which have spoken on the matter have stated in their opinions to the Constitutional Committee that certain reasons are inadequate when they are incomplete or concise, or that they have been completely lacking in justifications. This makes it difficult for national parliaments to assess whether or not a proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity. In the Committee's view, this represents a weakness in the legislative process within the Union, for which the Commission is ultimately responsible. It is therefore important that it is clear how the Commission has considered whether or not the proposals comply with the principle of subsidiarity. Nevertheless, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would point out that the Commission and other proposers have an absolute obligation to justify their draft legislative acts on the principle of subsidiarity, in accordance with Protocol No 2. We also note that for several years, most recently in its communication on a new EU agenda for better regulation for better results, the Commission has stressed that proposals should be accompanied by a better justification – particularly as regards the application of the subsidiarity principle. That is a good thing, but a great deal remains before the Commission meets the requirements of the Protocol. I look forward to the continued work of the Commission in this part. However, Parliament should, in its communication with the Commission, stress the importance of justifying draft legislative acts and that these justifications are detailed. Mr President, I would like to The second point I would like to touch on relates to contacts between national parliaments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has repeatedly stressed the value of the exchange of information between national parliaments, as we once again emphasise here. Against this background, the committee asked in this report also for a comment from the other committees on whether any contacts have been made with other national parliaments with a view to obtaining information in ongoing subsidiarity reviews. It is noted, as in several previous follow-up reports, that none of the committees has had any contact with other national parliaments. However, I would like to point out here, Mr President, that if we do not communicate with other national parliaments, there is indeed a risk that we will be deprived of fairly important information. We are also missing out on the possibility of achieving the limit values contained in the Treaty so that we could influence the content or even stop a legislative proposal. In order to ensure the effective exercise of the parliamentary powers we still have with regard to the monitoring of the principle of subsidiarity, greater cooperation between national parliaments is required. I believe that this issue needs to be discussed more seriously and to a greater extent, and in that discussion we should look at ourselves somewhere and look at what we have done and what we can do more in our quest for better cooperation in these respects. In this context, I would like to point out that Parliament's representative to the European institutions is a possible way of exchanging information with other national parliaments. Several of the committees have submitted opinions to the KU and have had contacts with the Parliament's representative at the EU institutions, and they stress that these work well. It is, in itself, a constructive part on the road to improvement, but it is not fully enough to meet the objective of subsidiarity in practice. The last thing I would like to mention before my speaking time ends has to do with IPEX, Mr President. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also requested a comment from the committees consulted on the collection of information from the IPEX database. Information has emerged that the information contained in IPEX is neither complete nor relevant when committees have dealt with subsidiarity matters. It is alleged, for example, that there is a lack of data from some Member States or that the information is not available in English but only in the original languages. Several committees stress the limited usefulness of this database and believe that IPEX needs to be improved in order to be a good support for the handling of these kinds of cases. The Parliament should therefore work to develop IPEX into a more effective tool for exchanging information between national parliaments. With that said, Mr President, I call for the committee's notification to be approved in report No 5.
i-78aEMnYMHfQhSZov9ZbaUf	Mr President, I would like to The Ombudsman's report is dealt with annually by the Constitutional Committee. When the story is handed over, the committee holds a hearing with the ombudsmen, as well as this parliamentary year. The official account itself is a rather thick book, nearly 800 pages with attachments. In it, ombudsmen present their observations from July 2014 to June 2015. In the Constitutional Committee's report, which we are here to discuss today, we highlight certain issues specifically. One such specific question, Mr President, concerns the duration of custody proceedings in district courts. The fact that in some cases it has taken around three years to decide which parent should have custody of the children is something that JO, Lars Lindström, criticises. As he points out, it is not only the parties who are affected by the way the work in the court is done, but also, or perhaps above all, the children. Of course, it is never good to have a long court proceedings, especially if you can hardly see the end of it. But in these cases it is particularly worthwhile to come up with a faster solution so that the children do not have time to grow up before the cases are solved. Mr President, I would like to Chief JO also points out a matter concerning children. A woman was put in custody and was taken away from her baby that she nursed. She applied for leave with regard to the child but was rejected on grounds that chief-JO finds inappropriate. The prison service's mission is not to make medical assessments and would have looked at the matter in a different way. These two examples I think show the importance of having the Ombudsmen of Justice to turn to when they feel that they have been mistreated in some respect. We have previously stated from the Riksdag that the examination of complaints, which is part of the work of ombudsmen, should be prioritised in relation to other tasks, since the examination largely meets the purpose of the Parliamentary Ombudsman. Of course, it is also important that ombudsmen are able to carry out specific inspections. That balance has so far been well managed by ombudsmen, which we believe will also be the case in the future. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I will also mention something about the change in the NPM unit. The JO has a special mission as a national visitor's body – called National Preventive Mechanism, NPM – which means that the JO regularly inspects places where people are held in detention. The aim is to ensure that these people are not subjected to cruel, inhuman or other degrading treatment or punishment. During the financial year, the NPM unit changed its name to the Opcat unit in the hope that it will clarify the basis of the JO's mission as a national visitor body. For those who want to immerse themselves more in what the Opcat device found during its inspections, there is a lot of good food to read on the JO's website. Mr President, I would like to With this speech, I would like to appeal to the committee's proposal to add the report to the file.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-25	Mr President, I would like to As we heard Emilia Töyrä's report, the JO's report is dealt with in the KU7 report. During the year, approximately 1,200 social services cases have been registered with the JO. This is a 10% increase compared to the previous year and makes social services the single largest supervisory area of the JO. A new phenomenon that the JO draws our attention to concerns information gathering on the internet in, for example, matters relating to supply support. The JO notes that there are no formal obstacles to social services collecting public data on the internet in the context of an inquiry into, for example, supply support – no, even if this is done without the individual's consent. On the other hand, the JO points out that the basic principle that investigations should be conducted in consultation with the individual also applies in cases where authorities collect data online. In plain language, this means that social services simply should not surf around and routinely search for information about the person seeking assistance. The surfing shall have a specific purpose, such as the need to check a data submitted. The JO also states that it should not be possible for a social services official to try to obtain information about an individual by using, for example, private Facebook accounts. Against this background, the JO stresses the need for the authorities to develop guidelines and procedures for these new tools if they intend to use them in their information search in these cases. The KU shares the views of the JO, as I understand it, and has had a small discussion so far about the form in which the views of the JO can be dealt with in this regard. Court issues are of particular importance to the KU. They are also close to my heart. They concern the very essence of the operation of the rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law. I would therefore like to say a few words about the Court's examination of the courts by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen. In one case, the JO seriously criticises a councillor at Blekinge District Court who has decided, without the support of law, on the secret supervision of electronic communications. Serious criticism is also being levelled at another councillor in the same district court for having allowed the proceedings in a custody case to drag on for five years, to be precise, as we heard earlier. The JO also criticises a judge in Norrköping District Court for having sentenced a person for an act for which he was not charged. These three cases exemplify what can go seriously wrong in our courts. One might wonder whether the Riksdag should not act in a more active way. I've been thinking a lot about it. I am aware that this is another debate, but perhaps there may be reason for Parliament to start thinking about the need for a more thorough recruitment of judges. The cases listed may also raise questions and concerns about the working conditions of the courts and the allocation of resources. Finally, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to give a small progress report on Parliament's announcement to the Government on the fact that in the official report the Parliamentary Ombudsmen come back to how to deal with the problems that arise when the staff of municipalities and authorities are subject to frequent and extensive requests by individuals for access to public documents. According to the announcement, the Government will investigate the question of possible measures to meet the challenges that may arise in the case of very frequent and extensive petitions, while maintaining respect for the principle of public access. I can then tell you that on 9 December, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson announced in a reply to a written question that he intends to instruct an investigator to investigate the existence of any abuse of the principle of public access and to analyse the need for action. This is a clear message which the committee naturally welcomes. With those words, Mr President, I also propose that the Parliamentary Parliament add to the record of the Parliamentary Assembly.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-36	Mr President, I would like to The role of the Ombudsmen of Justice in society is to protect citizens from abuses committed by the authorities and to report this back to Parliament. It is for this latter reason that we have today's discussion. According to this year's official report, the JO has handled more than 7,000 cases during the year. I will not present all these; I will spare the House from that. However, I will mention a few examples, and the previous speaker has already mentioned some. It is about caregivers who provide sensitive information about their patients. When it comes to record keeping, it is very sensitive data. Here the JO has chosen to give criticism. It is about how the prison service has failed in the treatment of inmates and refused care or not provided care in time despite the fact that should have been obvious to the prison services that the inmates needed it. There are also serious cases where the JO looked at district courts and the handling of custody disputes, as a previous speaker mentioned. There are examples of delaying a dispute or a dispute taking nearly five years, which of course is not good for either children or parents. In this case, too, the JO makes serious criticisms. Let us look at the development of the mandate and the record of the Ombudsmen. You can go back to 1999 in the statistics contained in this year's official report. It can then be noted that the handling of complaints has increased significantly. This has generally been done at the expense of inspection activities. JO conducts several different inspections each year. In 1999, 113 inspections were carried out on their own initiative. At the same time, 4 500 complaints and notifications were handled. In 2015, this has changed a lot. At that time, 7 143 complaints were handled by the Ombudsman, but only 78 inspections were carried out. In his official report, the JO writes that the handling of complaints involves the majority of JO's processing resources. The number of inspections and other audits at the JO's own initiative is at the same level as in the previous year but still less than the JO considers desirable. It should also be mentioned that the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have for some years tightened the requirements for what should be considered a complaint. Some hundreds of publications that would have previously been registered as complaints have now been dealt with in administrative order. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats have chosen to have a special opinion in the report, to which I would like to draw the attention of the House. The reason why the Swedish Democrats think it is important that we see more inspections by the JO is that inspections have the ability to meet the people who have the lowest ability to initiate notifications themselves, i.e. the absolutely weakest group in society who do not have the strength and ability to do JO notifications and run processes themselves.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-45	Mr President, I would like to We're dealing with the JO's official story. These are 7 358 cases, which is a small increase compared to the previous year. Last year the KU paid particular attention to the long detention periods, and it is now apparent that some work has been done in this area. The four ombudsmen Elisabet Fura, Lars Lindström, Cecilia Renfors and Lilian Wiklund have had the greatest focus on social services and LSS matters. There are a large number of cases that concern this. In the past, the prison service has been the biggest burden, but now it has passed on to social services. What the KU in its hearing has paid particular attention is that the municipalities have more areas to look at. This applies, for example, to PBL cases where there is a clear lack of management in the municipalities. When we asked questions about this at the hearing, several of the Ombudsmen pointed out that there is sometimes a lack of competence, particularly legal, in the small municipalities. For this reason, the committee states in its opinion that it would like to stress the importance of good administrative standards in the management of municipal matters. In order to ensure this, it is necessary, inter alia, to: that local government officials have the necessary skills. In their role as an employer, municipalities have a responsibility to ensure that employees are given the necessary skills and support. The committee also welcomes the commission given by the government to Boverket on competence measures in relation to, inter alia, the implementation of the programme. review and decision under the Planning and Construction Act. ..................................................... It is important that the Riksdag pays attention to the work of the Parliamentary Ombudsman. It is a thick and readable book that you leave every year. The KU hopes that the JO's official report will be made more visible in the public domain. With this, I would like us to add the statement to the record.
i-R25ArYu9fjAQhvrZQ6QVds	Mr President, I would like to On 24 November last year, the Ombudsmen of Justice provided us with oral information about their activities in the Constitutional Committee at an open session. The report covers almost 800 pages. From the statistical data of the Ombudsman's report, it appears that some 7,400 cases were received between 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015. This represents a small increase, barely 1%, compared to the previous year. In the activities of the JO, the number of inspection cases was 78. The JO answered 137 referrals during the year – that's quite a lot – that mainly came in from the Government Office. The official report states that the examination of complaints takes the bulk of the processing resources within the JO Office. The number of inspections and other audits at the JO's own initiative is at the same level as in the previous year, but they are still less than the JO thinks desirable. The number of cases closed was over 7,200, which means a decrease of approximately 200. The number of unfinished cases, which is the balance at the end of the year, was 997. This corresponds to approximately one and a half months' work within the agency. I have selected some matters in the official report that I would like to comment on in particular. One person notified the whistleblower function established within the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV). The purpose of the function was to get more employees to report any irregularities within the authority. The notifier argued that it competes with the statutory freedom of communication available to all those working in public authorities. In its decision in this case, the Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman, Elisabet Fura, stated that such a whistleblower function established within FMV did not compete with the freedom of communication. It may be good to know for other authorities as well. Of great interest are the views on Facebook use in the performance of public authority raised by the Ombudsman, Lilian Wiklund. JO believes that there is a need for guidelines within, among other things, the municipalities' social services for how tasks may be used in the exercise of public authority. The JO is clear that officials may not use personal Facebook accounts in the performance of their duties. In several cases, the Ombudsman for Justice, Lars Lindström, criticises the excessive length of court proceedings in custody cases. A responsible judge receives serious criticism from the JO that in a custody case it took five years to come to a decision. The Ombudsman for Justice Cecilia Renfors highlights in the official report, among other things, criticism of long processing times and lack of service within the Migration Agency. The JO points out that the Finnish Immigration Service's ability to make decisions in a reasonable time and provide good service is ultimately a resource issue for which the government is responsible. These are criticisms of the waiting times for decisions before the autumn's great flow of refugees. Mr President, I would like to My conclusion from JO's criticism is that it obviously requires very large resources to make faster decisions within the Migration Agency, resources that need to be added by the government and parliament, unless the criticism in the next official report from the JO is to be very serious.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-63	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion in the review report Activity compensation – a remuneration without activity? is serious and alarming. The report concludes that the purpose of the activity compensation is not achieved and that the compensation does not meet the Parliament's and the Government's objective of an active approach for young people with reduced working capacity. It is therefore remarkable that the committee is proposing that the Parliament should only add the letter to the file, but the Moderates and the Center Party have a joint reservation to which I request approval and which I will return to in my speech. The benefit was replaced by the early retirement scheme for young people when the new pension scheme was introduced in 2003. Now activities would be tailored to the young and make it more difficult to retire early. According to scientists and politicians, however, there has been little difference. The benefit is limited to a maximum of three years, when it must be reviewed by Försäkringskassan, which must also draw up an action plan for the individual. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency also has a coordination responsibility, which means that the authority must identify the need for coordination of operations between different actors. Many in the group of young people with disabilities who receive activity benefits do not participate in measures aimed at increasing the chances of getting a job or starting studies. The Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is not doing enough to make efforts and follow them up. I have a friend – a young person with disabilities – who had been sitting and broke copper cables for a number of years. He said one day to his supervisor at Försäkringskassan that he couldn't imagine sitting for the rest of his life and just breaking things. He wanted to create something meaningful. Thanks to a dedicated principal, he was given the opportunity to become a rest guard. There he could also tell the children about his disability during the break. It was good, but it was because he himself took hold of the issue and met the right people. Mr President, I would like to The review shows that many young people with activity compensation have no intervention whatsoever. About six out of ten go on to sickness benefit at the age of 30. Young people with an activity benefit risk being excluded from the labour market and receiving low incomes throughout their lives, and therefore low old-age pensions. Many in the group are unable to study full - time, but if they study part - time, the right to the full benefit disappears. It is clear that this creates lock-in effects. The person who has an activity benefit does not benefit from looking for work either, because net income, if you also have housing allowance, can be reduced by a quarter if he or she joins Arbetsförmedlingen. The Swedish National Audit Office believes it is important that the state streamlines the system of activity compensation so that more young people get the chance to move on to work or education. It is serious that so many young people are at risk of being excluded from the labour market. This entails considerable long-term costs for both individuals and society. The government should become more active in its governance and review the role of the responsible actors in coordinating efforts. The government should also review the possibility of increasing financial incentives to move on to work and studies. The Social Insurance Agency should improve the follow-up of efforts to the group and clarify information about what it means for the economy if you start working or studying. Mr President, I would like to Swedish Radio drew attention to the problem in May 2014. Many of those who receive compensation have disabilities and thus risk getting stuck with low income for the rest of their lives. Sara Hultqvist is a doctoral student at Linnaeus University and has written her thesis on young people receiving activity compensation. The problem, according to her, is that most people are referred to living on minimum contributions from the Social Insurance Agency and that the consequence is that they belong to a kind of young pensioner. She thinks it's a kind of second-class senior. According to the doctoral student, a large part of the increase consists of people with mental disabilities. Many also come in through special school, where students are automatically entitled to activity compensation. And if you have a disability, you are not the first in the line of work either," she says. Like many other parts of the security system, the level of activity compensation is based on how much money has been earned before. The minimum levels are between SEK 7 700 and SEK 8 700 per month before tax, depending on how old you are. As few have managed to enter the labour market, most people live on these minimum amounts. The vast majority of those who receive activity compensation never fully earn their living on wage labour. If you have already fallen behind in your 20s economically, there is a great risk that you will be in this relative poverty throughout your life. It is good that there is a safety net; early retirement schemes for young people must exist. But it is counterproductive if it is used more than it is needed. However, we must not forget that there are people who really need early retirement and who will always need it. And their compensation must not be compromised. Many testify to the concerns that they and their relatives feel each time the compensation is to be tested. Fine and coordination associations could work even more actively for the group. One could also look at the special study course available at folk high schools to get more from that group. There are good examples in Sweden. I would like to mention Duveholm secondary school in Katrineholm. They have just joined an Erasmus project for this particular group of young people. The partnership will investigate and try to find good educational models that help and facilitate students' development from basic education... The parties want to conduct an in-depth survey considering that only 6% of young people with intellectual disabilities have employment... far less than the average for normally troubled young people. They write, they write, they write, they Everyone has the right to have their work capacity tested. This is a view that the Social Democrats obviously do not share, because they do not support the review that we want to see on this issue. We have recently seen this with regard to health insurance, where a large group of people who are able to work will not now be tested against the labour market. Being able to work according to one's ability is for us moderates a fundamental pillar. Own income, self-confidence, community and sense of context are particularly important, not least for the disabled group. On the contrary, research shows that exclusion can lead to mental illness, substance abuse problems, etc. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have therefore, in a joint reservation with the Center, proposed that people with sickness or activity benefits should be better placed to break their exclusion. In the current system there are lock-in effects that are shown, among other things, when a person with an activity benefit starts studies on a part-time basis or starts looking for a job. In order to change the situation, security systems should be reviewed to strengthen financial incentives to move from activity compensation to study or work. The government parties do not consider it essential. It will be very interesting to hear their arguments in the debate.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-85	Mr President, I would like to The matter we are now discussing, as we have just heard from the Moderate Lotta Finstorp, is a very important matter. It's more important than we might see at first sight. In fact, it is a matter of being considered sick when you have a disability or a disability. It is about how we are included in the social security system and considered sick even when we are children and young people. It's all wrong. We must help our children and young people in every possible way to have a self-evident right to education and to get tools to enter the labour market and not from young people to be branded sick and outside. We in the Center Party believe that the government must do more than what is now said to be done. You scratch the surface to change. The Center Party and the Moderates have proposals, but they are rejected. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which Lotta Finstorp clearly presented, shows the errors and shortcomings in many different ways when it comes to preventing and avoiding a lock-in effect for children and young people in the activity compensation. The government says that it wants to look at the length of the decision for the activity compensation and the transition to studies and work. That's good. It is also said that a national coordinator for young people who do not work or study has been set up to help them enter the labour market. That's great. But it is not about these young people who have a disability, who have a disability of some kind, but about other young people. The coordination associations have received more money," says the government. That is also a good thing, but neither are these young people. It is not a question of being stamped from the beginning, it is a matter of when you have come a bit on your way. Then why do you get activity compensation? One thing that would of course be important is to look at what the municipalities are doing for children to receive support and help at school, without having to go to special school, for example. Is it something that the government would be interested in looking at, how the school system works from the beginning for children who have some kind of need for help and support? It is a major investigation, something more, that we propose in our motion from the Center Party and the Moderates. We need to make a complete review of how we view our young people and what opportunities we give our young people with disabilities for education and working life. One thing you can point out that is quite simple and important is to first and foremost make sure that they can read full time. But it can be considered part-time because you have a disability that means that you do not take in information as quickly and easily as if you do not have the disability. Then you lose your activity compensation, what you have had if you start studying. When you read too slowly, if I put it that way, it means that you do not get enough points to be able to get study money, and then you also get ignored and do not get the opportunity to study if you have a disability. It must be easier to try studying and working, if you have had and have activity compensation. There is also a need for more post-secondary education for people with intellectual disabilities. At the University of Gävle they had it, but that education has been discontinued. Studying at folk high school is possible if the municipality of residence is willing to pay for the education, but not all municipalities do. It is also important to look at. As I said, there is much you can do to meet what the Swedish National Audit Office so clearly shows when it comes to the problems for young people with an activity benefit to get into work. However, as I said, those proposals reject the government, and we in the Center Party believe that this is not acceptable. That is why I am in favour of the reservation we have from the Center Party and the Moderates.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-96	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. The question of the activity compensation and how it works or does not work has been relevant for many years. Some investigative assignments and minor changes have been made over the years. Last year, the Swedish National Audit Office made a search and has submitted a good and clear report. It highlights several elements that have not worked and has also proposed what needs to be addressed. Activity compensation is a replacement without activity. Why has this happened? The idea when the activity compensation was introduced in 2003 was the very best. Young people would have financial support when they did not have a job because of illness or disability and incapacity for work. They would also have activities that would bring them closer to working capacity and into the labour market, if possible. As the report says: The aim was never to give up hope that an individual will at some point perform some form of work or rehabilitation. But what happened? Was that hope abandoned, or why? Precisely the activity of the authorities has not been as active as we probably hoped. The assignment has been at Försäkringskassan but also at Arbetsförmedlingen. Society as a whole, too, has not lived up to expectations regarding the view of people with disabilities. It is sad, because who knows how many more people would have been on the labour market today if it had worked as we originally thought. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that there is no financial incentive to leave the compensation and go to work. Yeah, maybe that's the way it is for some people. But on the whole, I think most people want to be independent in terms of their livelihoods and their lives. I think the main obstacle is that the people concerned have not received the support they need to have faith in themselves, grow into an ability and a capacity to work and then really get a job. It is not the fault of the individual, but because the regulations, support measures and other things have not worked as intended. Different people need different support and measures, and we must ensure that everyone gets exactly what it needs. Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to go into what's been flawed and wrong, because then I'll have to go back many years. Instead, I will go into what should be done to give young people with disabilities real opportunities to enter the labour market. Inflows of young people who have been granted activity compensation have increased each year. We have seen that most of it is due to mental illness. Preventing such ill health is the biggest challenge we have. The best rehabilitation is the one that is never needed. When you have listened to the previous speaker, it sounds like nothing is done if we do not listen to their very proposals. But our government does things, and we have taken hold of this. The government is now carrying out several different initiatives and investigations from several different departments and areas, all with the aim of improving opportunities for people, especially young people, to establish themselves in working and social life. A large part is about preventing, i.e. ensuring that young people have better health from the start, that they are given opportunities and that they do not need activity compensation. Major efforts are being made in the area of mental illness. For young people who do not work or study, a national coordinator has been appointed. The coordinator's mandate includes promoting and improving cooperation between authorities, municipalities, county councils and organisations at national, regional and local level in the field of youth interventions. We must not forget that young people are young regardless of whether they are disabled or not. Here there may be a number of young people who might be eligible for today's activity compensation if we had found them. A national strategy has been presented with regard to measures taken or to be taken for young people. A review of the regulatory framework for activity compensation is under way. The government will work towards further development in terms of coordination, efforts and support for people with activity compensation. In order to reverse the trend with a large number of people with activity compensation, both the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the other actors must take their full responsibility. Coordination associations play an important role in supporting young people with activity benefits. In the budget, we have contributed 59 million to the coordination associations in order for them to be more and to work with the young. 300 million has been added to help more people find employment in Samhall. Linked to wage support, there are investments in special introduction and follow-up support. Wage subsidies have been added a lot of money to make them more. These are just a few examples. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, it is about curbing ill health, creating real opportunities for young people to retain an ability, which hopefully can lead to employment. There's a lot going on. I look forward to a review, future proposals and the changes that we can discuss and hopefully also have agreement on the future.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-114	Mr President, I would like to The issue we are discussing is very important for many young people between the ages of 19 and 30 who are currently living on activity compensation and who do not receive the support they need. The aim must always be to be able to enter the labour market and to be able to work 100% of their capacity. It may be that you can work two hours a day based on your ability, but you are included in a context that makes sense. I always carry with me what my good friend has told me about what it is like when you are disabled and have to sit and do, as he says, completely meaningless tasks. All he wants is to get out, but doesn't really get a hearing for it from Försäkringskassan. And he's not alone. This is happening everywhere in Sweden. Therefore, I reacted when Kerstin Nilsson said that the system can provide lock-in for some. I would like to say that this applies to the vast majority. Those who manage to get out often have very good support from parents who have fought for their child's cause ever since the child was born. This is something that society really needs to tackle. The Alliance government appointed the Funka investigation in 2011 which had a variety of proposals that we also carried out. There are a number of good things in the Funka investigation that have a bearing on this group. What is the government's view on moving forward with the Funka investigation? I also wonder when the investigations that the Government Office is doing and which Kerstin Nilsson is talking about will be completed.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-118	Mr President, I would like to There is really no disagreement. I know that all parties are passionate about these people getting all the support they need to get into the labour market and get their own livelihood. I also know that there are municipal regulations that are completely crazy. When a person with an activity benefit receives a two-hour job a day a week, this person may miss his or her entire day-to-day activity, and it is perhaps the basis and strength for this person to be able to work these hours. So there is a lot going on, and I cannot say when the various investigations are complete. Lotta Finstorp knows since the years when her party was in the government that investigations can give new investigations and that it may take time. So I have no answer. I followed the Funka investigation quite closely when I was on the Labour Market Committee. I agree that there were many good parts in it. It's not all about money, it's sometimes about regulatory simplifications that make things easier. We may have contributed a lot of money in terms of wage support, but there must still be employers who are willing to hire. There I think we have a lot of influence work to do. I hope there will be more action in response to what was in the Funka investigation and, as I know, is on the Labour Department's table today. But I'm afraid I can't tell you when and how.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-124	Mr President, I would like to I have stood in this Chamber and intervened precisely on this issue with the Minister for Social Security when the report of the National Audit Office came. We were, as Kerstin Nilsson puts it, very much in agreement that it cannot be in this way. This group of young people must be given incentives to have their work capacity assessed and better opportunities for study or work. I am therefore surprised that you do not want to make a major review by approving today the reservation that we have with the Center Party. Enough about this. We see that this is a major problem for the individuals in this circle of persons. What is very important is that everyone has an individual plan that is made at Försäkringskassan and that is reviewed. I think that we in this country suffer from the fact that if someone has become ill or disabled, this is some kind of permanent state, which it does not have to be at all. You can actually train certain abilities that make you not have the same needs and maybe have a better ability than you had the year before. As far as the individual plans are concerned, I would like Kerstin Nilsson to say something about how she views them. I hear that people are disappointed that this is going the wrong way. You meet your case officer, but you don't really get your skills assessed. It is also about young people who have the will to study and perhaps enter the labour market but who do not get their case properly tested on the basis of the forces they actually have when they have undergone a positive change. It can be the other way, too, that you get worse.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-128	Mr President, I would like to There's really not so much we disagree about. As far as these young people are concerned, I think, of course, that everyone should be set up to ensure that they really have independence and a capacity for self-sufficiency. As far as the individual plans are concerned, I can only agree that it is totally reprehensible that these young people have not had a solid plan, that they have not had proper contact with administrators and have not received the measures they need. Who knows how many of those who today would have been out in the world of work if it had worked all the way? It is Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen, employers and municipalities, i.e. society at large, that have to deal with this. We want to keep all the doors open. That is why we are looking at all sorts of different departments, because the legislation goes in each other, and that is why we need to review. But we have the same goal, Lotta. These people are going to work and get the support they need, but it will take time, because we have a lot to change. In terms of investigation, I hope that we can move forward quickly.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-132	Mr President, I would like to We hear from Kerstin Nilsson that she does not think we disagree on this issue. No, we may not be disagreeable, but we from the Moderates and Center Party want to do more. We see that this is extremely urgent. Our security systems have a lock-in effect. Then I wonder: does the Social Democrats and the government not want to make a major review of how to change security systems so that it does not lead to lock-in? In addition, the government's proposal requires you to look at young people who are neither studying nor having a job, i.e. young people who have no income. The young people we're talking about now have an income. They have an activity compensation, and it is not a reality that we can ignore. So there are two completely different groups of young people you are looking at. For my part, I believe that all people have equal value, whether they have a disability or not. But we need to do more for young people with disabilities. It's these kids that we're talking about now. What do you want to do specifically for them? I don't hear anything about it from Kerstin Nilsson.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-136	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we agreed on the case. You say you want to do more, Solveig, but then you haven't listened to what I said. We are doing a review in several different areas – education, health care and the labour market. These are things that are intertwined. In our own area of social security, I have said that there is a review and there is a will. With regard to this group of young people you mention who do not have a job or study and that it would be a different group from those who have disabilities, I think there are probably many different types of young people. I also believe that there are young people in that group who might be eligible for activity compensation if tested. Let us not forget that we do not always need to have different tracks. Young people can also follow the same path, but if you do different things at individual level for young people based on what everyone needs, diagnosed disability or not, I think we will get a long way. But as I said, we do a lot in this area. We may not be doing just that right now as you wish, but I think we have reason to come back when the investigations are complete. Then you also have the opportunity to speak. I think we're on the right track.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-140	Mr President, I would like to I think it's good that Kerstin Nilsson believes in this, because you should really believe in what you do. We'll be able to come back and speak when your investigations are complete. What are you doing, for example, in the labour market area for young people with an activity benefit? What are you doing in the school area for young people with activity compensation? What are you doing to avoid young people getting into activity compensation? What other measures and proposals are available in the social security system to provide support and assistance to young people with disabilities without an activity benefit? I can recommend Kerstin Nilsson and everyone else a book written by Anders Hansson. It is called The Boys — A Story of Two Developing Brothers. That family has two children, and what problems you have had with authorities and that you have not received much help is well described, as is the concern that children will not be able to have a livelihood when they become large. That book is very good, and it's just about this. What is being done to provide support and help and avoid the need for these people to receive activity compensation? What is being done to ensure that disabled people, disabled people, are considered to be all other young people on their way into adulthood and to enable them to support themselves more or less?
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-144	Mr President, I would like to As I have said before, we are both doing a review and looking at this from all departments, because we think this is very important. These young people are supposed to be in work for many years when they get there. It gives them an opportunity for independence. There will certainly be many different proposals when we have carried out a review. Precisely that regulations that go in each other should not become obstacles, but that opportunities should be given. I just have to end by asking: what did you do in the eight years you were in power?
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-147	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has produced this report which concerns the young people who have an activity benefit, what is sometimes called a kind of fixed-term disability pension. As has been said in the debate, the Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the purpose of the activity compensation is not achieved and that the compensation does not meet the Riksdag's and the Government's goal of an active approach for young people with reduced work capacity. I have to say, I'm not very surprised. The main reasons for this are three. The first is that over a period of years there has been a chronic understaffing of the staff at Försäkringskassan who have worked with the activity compensation. The administrators who have responded to the Swedish National Audit Office's survey say that it is reasonable to be responsible for about 65 cases at the same time – and then I assume that they mean matters where active coordination is required or needed – if you are to follow up, coordinate and work for efforts to be made. At the same time, the survey shows that the administrators are currently responsible for an average of 118 cases. It should also be added that 91 per cent of the administrators indicated in the Swedish National Audit Office's survey that more time or fewer cases would increase the conditions for providing young people with activity compensation as needed. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that it is not only the handlers at Försäkringskassan who question the high amount of the case. Analysts at Försäkringskassan have also stated that the current number of cases is too large for administrators to provide qualified support to each individual. At the time of the Swedish National Audit Office's inquiry to administrators at Försäkringskassan, the resource gap, i.e. the difference between the need for the number of administrators and the actual number of administrators, corresponded to 60 years of work. Then you should be aware that it has been even worse before. It was only a few years ago that the administrators sat on up to 500 cases, of which at least one third were those to be actively coordinated. The second reason is what the Swedish National Audit Office also points out, when it says that the need for interventions that currently exists for the group with activity compensation is not matched by the range that is met either by the municipalities' day-to-day activities, the Employment Service's work-oriented rehabilitation or the activities for which the Social Insurance Agency grants special compensation. This means that some people get the wrong action or that they do not get any action at all. The group that is not entitled to daily activities or that is far from the labour market is likely to be particularly vulnerable in order to be able to take part in the Employment Service's work-oriented rehabilitation, which corresponds to approximately half of all persons with an activity benefit. Thus, there is no municipal, county council or state actor that adequately provides the actions that this target group needs. However, these actors offer, in different configurations, projects and actions within the framework of Finsam, the Financial Coordination Associations. However, the scope of their various efforts is not sufficient to cover the need for the target group, and it is also taken into account that Finsam is now receiving an additional resource of SEK 59 million per year. These two reasons that I have described have been known for a long time, and I can only share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment when it is written that the government has been too passive in its governance, despite obvious and long-spoken problems in the current system of activity compensation. This criticism essentially falls on the former alliance government. I would add that previous managements of Försäkringskassan have also been too passive and not sufficiently flagged to politicians about the need for resource reinforcement or priority the case law sufficiently in the internal allocation of resources. The third reason why the needs of the target group are not met is the behaviour or working methods of other actors. The Swedish National Audit Office says that a review of the activity compensation should cover both municipalities and state authorities, and that the role of health care as an actor in the activity compensation system should also be included in the review. And here I would like to take an example of the problem. Around 70% of those who have an activity benefit have it because of mental disabilities. Some of these disabilities need not be chronic, such as depression and eating disorders. Many of the young people who have activity replacements have, or should have, a contact with psychiatry. The problem is that psychiatry, not least for young people, does not work well in many places. It is far too long set times to get first contact, be properly diagnosed and get a continuous treatment. Often psychiatry is manned by so - called relay doctors, and then there is no continuity in the health care contacts. This poses many times major problems for the coordination of rehabilitation efforts, since not least the Social Insurance Agency's administrator has difficulties in establishing, together with the person who has the activity compensation, a relevant rehabilitation plan, which should be carried out in consultation with the health care provider. Mr President, I would like to In the light of what has been said, I am pleased that the current government has taken the initiative for a total overhaul of the activity compensation – what you from the Alliance are now calling for. This will include, as has also been said here in the debate, consideration of activity compensation in the event of extended schooling and decision-making periods that reflect the actual state of the individuals. This government will also contribute SEK 300 million in 2016 to enable more people to get jobs in Samhall and to reduce unemployment in the target group. In order for more people to be able to get employment with wage support, the Government also proposes an investment in the special introduction and follow-up support, Sius, which will be implemented. Furthermore, the Government is making an effort for the years 2016 – 2019 in the area of mental illness. Every year SEK 280 million will be invested in order to meet the increasing ill-health among children and young adults aged up to 30 years. With regard to the current investigation, I am confident that more proposals will be made that will facilitate and be good both for the target group and for the administrators of the government agencies working on the activity compensation. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-167	Mr President, I would like to It's interesting to listen to Rickard Persson. In his introduction, Rickard said that the workload at Försäkringskassan is enormous, so you have not had the opportunity to do your job. Then I wonder: Who leads and distributes the work at Försäkringskassan? Is it me as a Member of Parliament? The report from the Swedish National Audit Office states that Försäkringskassan has not fulfilled its coordination mandate. As a Member of Parliament, have I contributed to the failure of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to fulfil its coordinating role?
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-170	Mr President, I would like to As far as Solveig Zanders's question is concerned, it is the management of the Social Insurance Agency that is mainly responsible. But if that mission has not been carried out, your government, which has been in office for eight years, should have gone in and taken the authority into its ear to make sure that it did. That's one thing. The second is that the government that sat for eight years and was responsible for this should have provided the resources that the Social Insurance Agency needed to carry out its coordination mission. Isn't that right, Solveig Zander? Then I have a question for you. During your time in the government, you developed, which I thought was great, a strategy for implementing disability policy, and there was very good in it. Among other things, it was an area where the state authorities were to set an example and employ these disabled young people with wage support. But there was a pancake of it, because you never followed up on your own strategy. The state authorities have certainly not set a good example. They have employed 0.7% from this target group. Why didn't you follow this up, Solveig Zander?
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-174	Mr President, I would like to Apparently, it's very interesting to shoot back at the Alliance government. We did a great deal in this area. The Green Party and the government are well aware of that. The Funka investigation was the result of our desire to do a great deal more. We will return to this in 2018, when we take back power, for many of those things you are already rejecting. I would like to return to Rickard Persson expressing himself in this context as an official of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. That makes me extremely worried. You must distinguish between your role as a leading Member of Parliament and work at Försäkringskassan. It is the Director General of Försäkringskassan who is ultimately responsible for his staff and is responsible for ensuring that he fulfils the mandates given to him by the Government and the Riksdag. Obviously, it has not been done. And it is not that there has been a lack of money at Försäkringskassan. During the years when the Alliance was in power in Sweden, they got – almost every year, I was saying – large allocations of money because they needed more and expressed what they wanted money for. There was an increase because the budget needed it. Obviously, however, the assignment in this area has not yet been fulfilled. It's something that's important to take note of. In fact, money has been given to carry out their mission.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-177	Mr President, I would like to I agree with part of what Mr Zander says. You got more money. But they did not get enough money to carry out the mission. I also share what Mr Zander says about the management of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. I do not know if Mr Zander noticed that in my main speech I made some criticism of the former management of the Social Insurance Agency, which did not give sufficient priority to this type of case over a period of years. When you do not, it is surely the political task to go in and steer it up, but for a number of years you did not. In all the years when the administrators sat with far too many cases, up to 500 cases per case officer, you did not steer the Social Insurance Agency's work on this case law, and I find that rather sad. Solveig Zander! You did not answer my question about the disability policy strategy that you drew up. The state authorities would set an example. Here you would have had the opportunity, through regulatory letters and other things, to ensure that the state authorities would employ this target group. You didn't do it either. There was a great deal that you did not carry out during your term of office in disability policy.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-180	Mr President, I would like to I support our follow-up motion 3249. We believe that the Government's proposal in UbU8 is necessary in the emergency situation of teacher shortages that we now have. We propose in our own policy that we might even go further than this proposal. The proposal means that persons who have documented sufficient knowledge of the subject must be able to work for two years provided that they submit to an educational basic course. After that, they will be given full access. We are in favour of requiring a licence in general. We voted in favour of the introduction of identification. But the demands may have gone too far in some areas, especially with the lack of teachers taken into account. The afterthought of paleness, you might say. As things stand today, we must have teachers who can teach purely on the subject. It stands between the government's proposal and the fact that qualified teachers with no subject knowledge conduct the teaching, or – the worst scenario – substitute teachers who do not have any education at all. This proposal is, of course, the preferred one. Mr President, I would like to We have a shortage of teachers today, mainly in the natural sciences. We think that the proposal should apply to all the substances, as it may also do – in the proposal it mentions a number of substances where there is a shortage, and it can in itself become all substances. However, we think that the proposal should have been worded more clearly on this point. The acute shortage of teachers could probably increase next year due to the influx of asylum seekers we have had. Some of them are going into the school systems. Then our school system will really be put to the test. This is a proposal to resolve the emergency situation, but we do not think it will be enough in the future. We ourselves will make a number of proposals in this direction. One of the reasons why we are calling for this not to be introduced on a trial basis but on a permanent basis is that we do not see what will happen after the trial period ends. What happens if there is a lack of qualified teachers in the subjects in question? In that case, we must continue with this proposal. If we have qualified teachers in the subjects, the problems will solve themselves. This is self-generating. The system will not be put into service if there are qualified teachers in the relevant subjects. We find it difficult to understand why this particular proposal by everyone should be implemented on a experimental basis. In addition, we have proposals like this in our policy. That is another reason why we do not want this to be introduced on a trial basis. Then we want to put a little focus on which proposals from the government are put forward on a trial basis and on a permanent basis. There are proposals which have been introduced on a permanent basis but which would be more justified to introduce on a experimental basis. I think the government should consider that question.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-189	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the report on employment under certain supplementary training courses for teachers. In the bill, the Government proposes an amendment to the School Act, which means that the authority that the Government determines in the School Act shall be authorised to make provision for a trial with fixed-term employment. This means exceptions to the school law's requirement for identification and eligibility to teach in school. However, the exception applies only to persons who are to teach in subjects where there is a shortage. The prerequisites for exemption are also that the person concerned has subject knowledge corresponding to a qualifying degree and that he/she carries out a supplementary educational education in order to obtain a qualified teacher's degree. You can be employed for a maximum of two years, with the possibility of an extension of up to three years if there are special reasons for doing so. This is a very good proposal. There is a shortage of teachers, especially in certain scientific subjects, technology and modern languages, while few applicants for these particular subject teacher training courses. Then it is important to try to create alternative paths to the teaching profession. This is one of the government's proposals where the will is to make the teaching profession more attractive. This proposal is also important because it will provide security for people with academic education who are interested in the teaching profession to dare to take the leap to further educate themselves when they know that they have a great chance of becoming permanent employees. Thus, they may dare to change their professional orientation more easily. As with anything new that is being introduced, it is important to first test how it works before introducing it on a large scale. That is why the proposal is that it should be introduced as a pilot activity for a limited period of time and also apply only to subjects where there is a great shortage of teachers today. That is a good thing because you do not risk introducing something that goes wrong, but you get a chance to evaluate and correct what may not have worked as well during the trial. The government is taking several initiatives to make the teaching profession more attractive. This proposal is one of them. Another is the teacher's salary initiative. One that is under way, as we could see in the bill list that came the other day, is additional educational education for people with doctoral degrees. Now they are also working intensively to get new arrivals with educational skills in school. Much is going in the right direction when it comes to teacher issues. With this in mind, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-196	Mr President, I would like to On this matter, we agree with the Government's proposal, and I could therefore keep my mouth shut. However, I think it deserves some comment, especially on what is not in the bill. First of all, we think it is positive that, in this situation, when we have a great shortage of teachers, we are opening up more paths. It is important to stress that the teacher's ID must not be removed or broken out more. It is a guarantee that we are of quality and that we have well-trained teachers in Sweden's schools. Despite what Gunilla Svantorp said, we do not think that the government has shown much action on school issues, although Gustav Fridolin had ambition with his 100 days. It has only delivered a dozen proposals to the Parliament's Education Committee. Many of them were initiated under the alliance government. Unlike the government parties, we have developed our school policy. Among other things, we have added the School Initiative. There we have gathered experts and school researchers to discuss how to meet the school's future challenges. The bill that came is like I said good. But there's a drop in the ocean. It takes a lot more. We need to further raise the status of the teaching profession. We are still lagging behind in international knowledge measurements, so much more needs to be done. We also have great challenges. In 2015, more than 70 000 children of whom 35 000 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in Sweden. This places completely new demands on the Swedish school system. We expect much more from the government there. Judging by the bill list that recently came to Parliament, the proposals shine with their absence. We need more and better ways to learn Swedish. That's why we want to open up so that folk high schools can also offer language introduction. We want to change the school law for high school so that you can combine a secondary school programme with both language introduction and career introduction. We have stressed the importance of exempting retired teachers from the requirement of teacher identification so that more can come back and teach. We also want Swedish as a second language to be mandatory in teacher education. That is something that is not included in the report that we are going to decide on. At the same time, it is important that we have more teachers, that we have more teachers who have dropped out come back to the profession and that we have more people who have come to our country who have educational experience to help in the school system. Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, we support the bill.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-208	Mr President, I would like to I certainly did not intend to take a line because we really feel the same on this issue. But when Michael Svensson pisses me off, I have to take a line. Michael Svensson says that we are not doing anything or that we are doing too little. He says the Moderates have set up a school group of some kind. I don't remember what you called it. The government has set up a school commission and started a national collection for the teaching profession. The government is out talking to people who are in the school area to do the right things and avoid introducing things that have to be changed time and again, as we saw in the last parliamentary term. I don't quite agree with you, Michael Svensson. The government is doing a lot to make the teaching profession more attractive.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-210	Mr President, I would like to The challenges that we are now seeing we began to see already in August, September and October last year with a big wave that came to Sweden. We already had problems at school. I had expected more proposals on the list that has been presented. I know there are thoughts, as Gunilla Svantorp quite rightly mentioned before. There are many powerful people out there in our country. I won't mention a name here. There is someone with whom I have spoken who has some say at the local level who said: At this point it is better to apologize afterwards than to ask permission, because we have to act now. In fact, the ability to act and the initiative must come from the government. That's where we can be a little disappointed.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-212	Mr President, I would like to I disagree. If you are responsible for the school locally and nationally, as we have in this case, you have a lot of freedom of action no matter what level you sit at. I think we are doing a great deal to meet the wave of people who are now coming here. In particular, we have allocated EUR 10 billion to the municipalities and, in addition, EUR 200 million extra, if I remember correctly, to the school. Sure, we're trying to do the right thing. It should also be remembered that throughout last year the government ruled with a budget that was not our budget. Of course it has its limitations. What you wanted to prioritise in your budget, which was the one that went through, is not as much about school as our budget did. We had some limitations in carrying out what we wanted to do. We also have a parliamentary situation that is not quite simple. I hope we agree that school is an important arena where we need to agree across all block borders to do well for our children and young people.
i-e97850c2cb6d839c-216	Mr President, I would like to It was our budget that was in force last year, as Gunilla Svantorp said. That is why the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance could say that the Swedish economy still goes like a train. I'm glad to hear that. It is no wonder that we have a slightly different view of the speed and initiative of me and Gunilla. But it is good that we seem to share the analysis that we have many challenges in Swedish school. I think what we're seeing now is just a vest fan against when we're three, four, five years ahead. There we are prepared from the opposition to help solve the problems.
