i-336a8f2a2695e265-0	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be the country of opportunity. The starting point of the liberals is that it doesn't matter where you come from. The important thing is where you're going. Future dreams begin at work with self-support, co-workers and a daily life and community. Well, well-being also starts with jobs. The work line is a prerequisite for the welfare state. But both the work line and welfare are now challenged by growing exclusion. Sweden is faced with a choice of routes. It is the most important route in our time. Should those who are admitted to Sweden also be admitted to the labour market? Or should the new Swedes be referred to grants and exclusions because LO does not want to let more people into work? Work or grant, work line or grant line. We Liberals choose the work line. It is better that newly arrived refugees can quickly get a job even if the job is simple and even if the starting salary is lower than that they will live on contributions from society year after year. We have a simple starting point, Stefan Löfven : Everyone is coming.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-3	Mr President, I would like to When Jan Björklund was a minister, he used to talk quite often about what it was like to take over the former minister's desk and what could possibly be found in the desk drawers. When our government took office and entered Rosenbad, we found alarm reports of higher unemployment, dramatically declining school results and a large housing shortage. Labour market policy and adult education had been dismantled, and we also found a budget deficit of SEK 65 billion. Such a policy definitely has real results for people in real life. This applies not least to the most vulnerable people in society. When we entered the government, it took seven years for a new arrival to come to work. That was your result. After a lost election in 2014, the Right signaled that it would change. Instead of looking to the future, however, one has turned one's gaze steadily back. In the 1960s, it was women who would have lower wages. In the 1930s, it was the workers who would have lower wages. A few years ago it was the young people who would have lower wages. Now it is the new arrivals who should have lower wages in order to be able to get jobs at all. You can call this starting job, entry job, fresh start job or whatever you want. These are the same old arguments that we have been hearing for almost 100 years. Some people are supposed to have lower wages to get to work. It's as wrong now as it was then.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-8	Lowering wages to create jobs is and remains a really inefficient proposal. In order for it to have an impact at all, it requires such low wages that it is socially unacceptable. This points out not least the Institute of Economic Development, to which you so often refer. It is clear to everyone who is currently working to a not too high salary in health care, in restaurants and in shops that their chances of raising wages would be drastically reduced if it were possible to hire new workers for a spit styve. It is not possible to isolate the wages of some groups and not to believe that it affects others. This is also shown by research. It is extremely clear in this area. It points out that a reduction in the wages of some will lower the wages of the quarter of the employees who earn the worst. This corresponds to 1 million employees in Sweden. Anyone who is going to experiment with other people's wages should also know about it. My message is crystal clear. We Social Democrats will never accept state-run poor wages. It'll pay off to work, period.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-12	We are facing a great challenge. According to current estimates, 180 000 newcomers will enter the Swedish labour market over the next three years. However, it is in equal parts people who do not have upper secondary education as those who have upper secondary education and also tertiary education. For that group, there is not a simple solution. It is different people and individuals with different conditions and different competences. That is why we have started investments of over SEK 60 billion in order for those who come here and those who already exist in the country to work. They're going to work. In our backs we now have an economy that is growing strongly. We have a growth rate of about 4%. It is the highest growth in the Nordic countries, and it is one of the highest in the EU. Unemployment is now the lowest in seven years. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. This means that we currently have about 100 000 vacancies in the Swedish labour market, and we have over 100 shortages. That is why we are investing in a knowledge boost with 50 000 new training places. For those with higher education and upper secondary education, we invest in validation and supplementary education. We create more internships both at public authorities but also together with the business community. We're creating fast tracks for a series of shortage jobs, and more are on their way. We do this together with the social partners. This is what is called the Swedish model, among other things. I will come back to this in the debate. There is, and it is true, a group of newcomers who will find it very difficult to assert themselves on the Swedish labour market. We must take this seriously. This applies to those who have a very short education and have come a little up in the years. We expect there to be about 25 000 people by 2018. They need simpler jobs, subsidised jobs, modern preparedness jobs, but perhaps even shorter vocational training courses that do not require much prior knowledge. The challenge is great. There's no talk about anything else. But the opportunity if we do this right is so much greater. Therefore, we are not lowering the wages of the many, but we are raising the knowledge and creating jobs to the very groups that need it most. This is not how we dismantle the Swedish model, so we develop it, and so we continue the community building that we need to do in our country Sweden.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-18	Mr President, I would like to Today, about 4,700,000 people in Sweden go to work. Some of us got up a few hours ago and went by car. Some took the bus or the train. A few go. Some will do it in a few hours, and some will do it tonight. What everyone has in common is that everyone is doing their very best because Sweden is and should be one of the world's strongest and best societies. We'll be proud of that. Sweden is a strong society that stays together. But it doesn't come by itself. It makes demands. It requires all to do what they can to contribute, to do right by themselves and to do their part of what we call ours according to their ability. I am convinced that the vast majority of people in Sweden want to, but not everyone has had that chance yet. Today, around one in seven people of working age – 800,000 people – live in exclusion, and more are at risk. Too many people without upper secondary education and too many foreign-born have still never got the first foot in the labour market, have never got their first job. Unless something is done for more ways into work, some 90 000 more overseas born permanent unemployment is at risk. Each of the many people who live in exclusion can testify to the same thing: the frustration of not getting a chance and the feeling of standing outside. This is unacceptable, and so exclusion must be broken so that more people get their first job.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-22	It is naive to think that the refugee crisis is over. Sweden is facing a situation that places greater demands on reform and integration than perhaps ever in modern times. But that is not what the Prime Minister is talking about today. What he seems really committed to is not reform but the party political game and lies. Lying about his opponents' proposals may be one thing-- it's pretty bad-- but the worst lie from the Prime Minister is the one about his own politics. In the festive speeches, for example in just a few days ago, Stefan Löfven says: ..................................................... At the same time, the government is doing exactly the opposite. When people need more simple jobs to get that first job, the government halves the RUT deduction. When it needs to pay better to work to break the exclusion, the Prime Minister raises the contributions to those who do not work. When more people need to learn more in the Swedish school in order to be able to enter the labour market, the government says no to Sweden's high school students getting more math. It doesn't make any sense. Mr President, I would like to If you are serious about everyone working and doing the right thing and that Sweden should stick together, you have to do something about this, in the form of reforms. A moderate-led government will not legislate on wage cuts, but a moderate-led government will ensure that more people can get their first job and salary. More people need to feel the feeling of getting up in the morning even when it receives a little and to have a job to go to and look forward to. Then Sweden needs to take at least five steps forward. First of all, work must always pay off. We still have high taxes on labour, and it hits those with the lowest incomes hard. That's why the first job deduction is needed. In addition to that, an effort is needed to keep more of the support if you start working, albeit only a little bit. With our proposals, for example, a single parent who gets a part-time job that gives 8 000 a month can get an extra thousand to live for each month. Secondly, more people must be given the chance to learn the job at work. Occupational introduction, which we introduced, is good, but it is too slow. So far, for example, 28 job introduction jobs have been created in commerce. Many more are needed in many industries. Therefore, first-job employment is needed, so that more people can take the first step into the labour market and have the opportunity to learn the job at work. Thirdly, there needs to be a clearer requirement to make an effort to get the first job. That is why we need to have an activity requirement in the supply support, and that is why we need an education obligation so that those who come here without primary school competence can get this as quickly as possible. Fourthly, more people need to learn more in Swedish school. There begins the way into Swedish society. Therefore, we need to lift the school more, with clearer knowledge requirements, well paid to skilled teachers and more time for teachers and students. Fifthly, we need to ask everyone who comes here what they can. It must not take them several years to get that question, as it can do today, but it must happen as soon as possible on the first day. Sweden is a country where we promise each other to do the right thing for us and where we demand that everyone contribute according to their ability. Then we have to take advantage of everyone's ability, and that is why we need an early skills survey. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has faced challenges before, and we can do it again. But then we need to raise the ambition of reforms and not just raise the tone of the debate. This requires political leadership of a completely different kind from what Stefan Löfven can deliver.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-32	Mr President, I would like to Although this debate has been requested by the Liberals, it is in any case called for by reality. It has been for a very long time. Problems related to the western world's most irresponsible immigration policy are not new, but we have been pointing out such problems for many years. Then the other parties in this Assembly have very much either thrown out ugly words or denied the existence of the problems. It is of course a good thing that we now at last seem to agree that there is actually a limit to what we can do in our asylum reception and that the number of people who have come to Sweden is important for our ability to provide a sensible reception and get a functioning integration process. It is good that we have come so far in the debate. At the same time, Mr President, I think that the subject of this debate – the way into the labour market – highlights precisely the narrow perspective that has had to shape the debate on integration policy for far too long. In order to move forward and succeed with the ambition that almost everyone is talking about – keeping our country together – we have to deal with the view that integration is only about jobs and employment. I think it became very clear, not least during the last government's eight years in power. At the time, billions were invested in ineffective integration projects in the form of various special solutions, subsidised fake jobs, low-wage jobs and so on. It boasted of the largest integration policy reform in 25 years. Almost none of this, Mr President, had any effect. The problems got worse and worse, and exclusion has continued to grow. During this debate we have already heard, and we will hear, the same old politicians nagging about the same old politics, and it is the same old parties behind it. Perhaps a new name is given to some of the policies, but they are the same old policies that have not worked. Jobs and employment are, of course, an important key to integration, but they are real jobs. This involves investing in welfare, investment, creating the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises to grow and making it cheaper and less risky to employ. It is about creating the conditions for industry. It is about creating the conditions for the important rural industries. This is an educational system that is up to date and capable of responding to the needs of the labour market. It is about defending the Swedish model. Unfortunately, there has been a complete lack of policy in this regard for many years. The focus has been entirely on subsidised fake jobs, the special solutions for newcomers and so on, and it has not worked at all. We need to create the conditions for real jobs in this country. It is an important key to integration, but it is not the only key. I think that this is important in this context. In practice, establishing and being part of Swedish society requires more than just employment. You have to know the language, not only in terms of words and sentences, but you have to understand and know the language in depth. One must understand how Swedish society looks and functions and what norms and values form the basis of our society. You have to adapt. You have to want to become Swedish in order to become a part of Sweden and Swedish society. It is this, Mr President, that the other parties in this House are so desperate to understand. It is quite clear that a large proportion of those who have come to Sweden in recent times have no reason to stay here, and therefore they will have to return. This must, of course, be done as soon as possible. But many will remain here, either permanently or at least for a very long time to come. Then it is a matter of holding a society together that is being torn apart by division and segregation. Then we must be clear about what is expected. We must be clear about what all these people have to adapt to. But if you come to Sweden today you almost encounter the opposite. Here, rather, the very existence of a majority culture is denied: There is nothing you can learn – we only have meatballs, midsummers and such lame things. With these conditions, it is clear that it will be difficult to keep a society together with a rapidly growing population. I believe, Mr President, that we need to find things to agree on, and I believe very strongly in citizenship as an important key to integration, something that we can all relate to and agree on. But that assumes that we value citizenship, that we let citizenship mean something, that it becomes something desirable – not only that you have lived in Sweden for a certain time but that you have also established yourself in society, become part of Swedish society. Then, Mr President, I am convinced that we are also able to keep this society together in the long term, and that is the crucial thing.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-44	Mr President, I would like to More than ever before, Sweden is today a country that looks different to different people. For the vast majority, the labour market is better than in a long time. Not since 2008, before the financial crisis, have so many had work to do as today. But the road to work continues to be longer for certain groups. For those who have come new to Sweden, the way to a permanent position is usually particularly long. Sweden is growing. Last year, an unusual number of people fled to Sweden. The war in Syria is in its sixth year, and people's driving forces to escape are, unfortunately, becoming stronger and stronger. It is important that the reception capacity is increased and that the establishment is improved, so that we can adapt our systems to function well both in times when there will be many and in times when it will get. All Swedish municipalities will help each other with the reception, so that the establishment is accelerated, and previous efforts will be carried out, so that new arrivals can learn the language more quickly and start validation and education. Housing construction must be increased and civil society given a clearer role in the establishment process. Like most countries in Europe, we have an ageing population. A forecast for the coming years shows that the number of retirements exceeds the number of incoming young people. The challenge for most European countries is to bring in more people of working age. Taking advantage of newcomers' experiences and skills and at the same time creating ways into the labour market is one of the great opportunities of our time – the opportunity to allow more people to contribute to a community building where Sweden's economy continues to grow. More people who come here on the run should be able to learn Swedish from day one and be able to work from day one. The earlier we make it easier for people to learn Swedish, get their qualifications and grades validated and get opportunities to create industry contacts within their profession and establish private contacts and networks, the earlier people come to work or start companies. Historically, Sweden has managed to grow well. Two decades after the Balkan War, we see that those who sought refuge in Sweden and made Sweden their new home country have established themselves to the extent that more of them read further at the university than native Swedes. Sweden grew and created opportunities from a major challenge. The role of politics is to ensure that people can quickly establish themselves on the labour market, in the housing market and in society at large. This is precisely why the government has introduced skills mapping in housing facilities and opened up the possibility of starting to learn Swedish early in the asylum process. The Green Party would also like to see proposals for digital sfi, i.e. the opportunity to study Swedish on your mobile phone or on your computer, so that everyone can practise the language from day one. The government has also created some twenty fast tracks for people with backgrounds in different shortage professions. The Green Party also wants to see a fast track for self-employed workers. Many people have lost experience in running businesses, and others have an idea that they have carried with them for a long time and want to realize. If we can get half of the most driven newcomers to start businesses in Sweden and half of these companies to become viable, this will create many new jobs both for newcomers and for oldcomers. These are initiatives that we consider necessary if Sweden is to continue to grow with those who have come here. At the same time, we in the Green Party see that more needs to be done. As a constructive part of that discussion, we as a party continue to be the driving force in the debate on how we can improve establishment in different ways. In addition to the fast track for self-employed workers and digitised SFIs, we also see that we need to open up the labour market to more people by increasing the opportunities to work from the first day that they are in Sweden as asylum seekers. Today, an exemption from the requirement for a work permit is required in order to work. Although the starting point of the current rules is that asylum seekers should have the right to work during the period of asylum, not enough people live up to what is required by the Aliens Regulation. Our starting point is that more people who can work from day one will also do so. That is why we want to review the current regulatory framework in order to make it easier for more asylum seekers to work as soon as they get here. For those asylum seekers who already have the right to work, there is no possibility to register as a job seeker at Arbetsförmedlingen. Even if access to the same regular contact and support as ordinary jobseekers is not available, it is valuable for employers to be able to get in touch early with asylum seekers who have skills and experience in, for example, shortage jobs. We would therefore like to enable asylum seekers to register, so that they can be searched for employers in the Employment Service's electronic database, and give them the right to easier support measures such as counselling and matching calls. There is a great danger when countries stop believing in their own society's ability to grow and develop. History has shown that openness to the outside world has benefited Sweden. Society that joins tends to stagnate in its own development. Successful societies are open, mixed societies. Sweden needs to remain open and create opportunities for those who come here to contribute and be part of a Sweden that continues to grow.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-55	Mr President, I would like to One thing is absolutely clear: Sweden needs more people to work. And with all the new arrivals now knocking on the door, the need for reforms that can pave the way into the labour market is increasing, because integration and jobs are nothing more than two sides of the same coin. Among all those who have come to our country are doctors and engineers. However, many of those who have arrived lack education, and that is what this debate should be about. We cannot, as we are doing now, relegate them to permanent exclusion. They also need to be able to get a job quickly, because this is an emergency. Sweden needs a government that takes this seriously, which has a high pace of reform and gives people a chance to tear down the walls that today surround the first jobs. Unfortunately, we have seen far too little of that product so far. Stefan Löfven seems to be more busy talking about the Swedish model than actually making sure that it is filled with people of meat and blood who work. From the Center Party, we haven't been sitting still in the boat. If we see a challenge, we take the bull by the horns. We are not backing down but ensuring that there are concrete solutions. That is why we have put forward proposals on, for example, how to make it easier to start a business, through entry companies where the hassle is minimized to provide data and handle tax payments via an app. Many of the new arrivals have an entrepreneurial background. That is also why we have proposed lower employers' contributions, more apprentices and increased opportunities to start RUT companies – all to create more roads to the first job. That is also why we have proposed starting jobs. Entry-level jobs are based on the conclusion of an agreement between the social partners, which allows newcomers with low education and language skills to be employed at a lower entry rate than is currently possible. Taking the parties' responsibility and doing so, we are prepared to pursue politically reduced income tax rates for these groups, which gives more money in the wallet for those who are hired, and also lower social security contributions for those who enter into these agreements. If the parties are not prepared to assume their responsibilities, we are prepared to legislate on entry jobs, because the alternative is exclusion for hundreds of thousands of people, dependency on subsidies and integration risks failing. Mr President, Sweden cannot afford that. Let us remember that for the individual it is not a higher salary that is the alternative, but it is no salary at all. The International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the Institute of Economic Development, the European Commission and the Council of Finance Policy are some of the authorities and expert bodies that have highlighted the fact that simpler jobs with lower entry wages are necessary for new arrivals to be able to get jobs. When I meet a person who has just fled the war and oppression in Syria, who wants nothing more than to get into Swedish society and work, I want to be able to say that here everyone gets a chance to do the right thing. Even those who do not master the Swedish language and even those who have a poor education should be able to get a job. Mr President, I would like to This weekend Stefan Löfven gave a speech to his colleagues at municipal level. It was an interesting speech to listen to. The Swedish model was mentioned so many times in the speech that I finally lost count. But that the Prime Minister repeats the words, developing the Swedish model, countless times will not fill them with content. It won't give more new arrivals a job. In his speech, the word entrepreneur also shone with his absence, despite the fact that it is actually entrepreneurs who create the jobs. However, the Prime Minister read a poem about the state of the Swedish economy. Against this background, I also took the liberty of formulating my own poem: 76 days. The Swedish economy is growing strongly. But 76 days is the time that the government's budget has been in force. Swedish service providers have lost 5,000 of their colleagues. 70 people got trainee jobs, not 32,000. tax increases; The Red Green Government's budget has been in force since the turn of the year – for 76 days. To suggest, then, as Prime Minister, that it is Social Democratic politics that is the reason why the Swedish economy is growing is, to say the least, strong. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs more people to work. More in jobs give more to share and more to the common welfare. We stand up for the social partners to settle the conditions on the Swedish labour market. We stand up for the Swedish model, but we also realise that it needs to be developed. The reason is simple, namely that we want to succeed in the integration challenge. We want to give people a chance. It is not reasonable that the way to the first job in our country is sometimes harder than climbing Mount Everest.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Unemployment in Sweden is falling. The Swedish economy is developing surprisingly strongly. Many companies find it difficult to find labour when they need to hire. We see huge labour market needs in the future. At the same time, there is an obvious risk that tens of thousands of people in this country will never be able to get these jobs. They have too little education, they can have the wrong education and they can have inadequate language skills. Here lies a huge political challenge to solve this. This is done through concrete measures and proposals. We have these proposals. We have proposals to start vocational training for those who need it. We have proposals to invest in language introduction, so that more people can get the upper secondary education that is a prerequisite in the labour market. We want you to read Swedish from the first day when you have come here. It is this kind of practical solution – the list can be made much longer – that we talk to the government about when we negotiate the state budget. This is what you do when you make sure that people can take the jobs that exist and are created. We have a great opportunity to do this really well if we get to grips with the situation – make sure there are construction workers, there are nurses and there are engineers in this country – and if we give people the chance to get training and take jobs. That's our job. Instead, this debate on the bourgeois side is about reducing wages. It's about something completely different. But how do you solve the problem of an upcoming huge shortage of nurses by lowering the assistant nurse's salary? You can't solve it at all. It's solved by training nurses. That is how the problem of this deficiency is solved. The fact is that, if you lower the nurses' already too low wages, you get fewer nurses because they already earn far too little and are painfully aware that they will receive a very low pension despite their hard work. It is a counterproductive policy. But the bourgeoisie is really looking for something else. They are looking to lower the wages of those who earn the least. Because, as Stefan Löfven pointed out, this is what is happening. You can't lower the wages of some people in the restaurant business or the trade. You lower it too many. Then there'll be a downward pressure. Who are the low-paid? They're mostly women. It is hypocrisy from the Liberals to talk about being a feminist party and at the next moment want to lower the salary of Sweden's low-paid women. That's not what feminists do. To reduce the salary of these groups is to create a new generation of poor pensioners in Sweden, and we will never contribute to that. Pensions are low enough for too many people in this country. The right will do what they always do. If it is not the young people who should have reduced their pay, it is the women. And now it is the immigrants who are supposed to be the battering ram to lower the wages of those who earn the least. We recognize your policy. We know what you're after. Many have come to Sweden. If we do the right thing now and invest, we can do this well. We have to build lots of housing, we have to educate people and we have to conduct an economic policy that invests for the future. Here I wish the government was less anxious and dared to raise taxes for the richest and daring to invest more. But as important as it is to do right, it is not to do wrong. In fact, Stefan Löfven and Anna Kinberg Batra together are about to target a well-targeted sabotage of the establishment of the Swedish labour market. This applies to temporary residence permits and the link between residence permits and work. In fact, all parties here in Parliament except the Left Party agree on this policy. These proposals have been cut to pieces. LO has criticised linking residence permits to work. They say that it makes workers dependent and increases the risk of exploitation. In practice, the system is impossible to administer and control. That's what LO says. TCO states that temporary residence permits will lead to a deterioration in the establishment of the labour market. That is exactly what we are talking about today. They say that rogue employers can take advantage of the vulnerable situation of newcomers in the labour market. Saco believes that the proposal will impair the ability of newly arrived academics to establish themselves in the relevant profession. Sweden's municipalities and county councils indicate that young people will be particularly affected. There is a great risk that they will opt out and simply not start upper secondary education because they need to get a job in order to stay in the country. They are also particularly vulnerable to the risk of being exploited by rogue employers. The employment agency is giving a totally devastating criticism. They say that this risks breaking up the current work on two-year establishment plans, and that is no wonder. It is therefore about to implement something that directly sabotages the possibility of entry into the labour market, and I think that is completely untenable. It is not enough to do the right thing. It is also necessary to avoid making direct mistakes. I would like to hear from both Stefan Löfven and Anna Kinberg Batra what they say about the criticisms from LO, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils and the Employment Service. Is it not that you are destroying the good opportunities we have to allow people to enter the Swedish labour market?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-95	Mr President, I would like to I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister both today and before. What a disdain! The Prime Minister may have found a rhetoric that goes home in the first May train, but only there. The rest of the Swedish people still wonder what will happen to everyone who comes to Sweden. In reality and beyond rhetoric, Sweden faces the greatest challenge of our time. Should we choose integration, or should we achieve segregation? A few hundred thousand people come to Sweden in a few years. Some are well educated, but many are very low-skilled. We have had a low threshold to enter Sweden, but we have had a high threshold to enter the labour market and get jobs. These are high thresholds that create segregation. The difference in employment rates between native and foreign born is greater in Sweden than in any other EU country. That's the difference we call segregation. This is because the proportion of simple jobs is smaller in Sweden than in any other EU country and the wage spread is smaller in Sweden. That connection is denied by the Social Democrats, and it is incomprehensible – the scientific studies are unambiguous. The Swedish studies show that high starting wages reduce employment for vulnerable groups. The Prime Minister here argues as if the choice was between refugees getting jobs with high pay and refugees getting jobs with low pay. Then it would have been easy, but the truth is that the choice is between pay or no pay. It is the responsibility of the parties to sign agreements and determine salaries and other terms of employment, Mr President, and I share that view. This power has been given to the parties by law. I am defending that model; it was a liberal government that introduced this once upon a time. But what should the state do in times when the parties do not show social responsibility? The Social Democrats and Stefan Löfven say that one can never imagine legislating. Now I thought we'd have a guessing contest. I'll read you a quote. You'll have to think about who wrote this: The situation that has now arisen in the labour market means that the government and parliament can no longer remain inactive. ..................................................... The correct answer is that Ingvar Carlsson wrote it. He was supported by Göran Persson, Mona Sahlin and Margot Wallström who sat in his government. The quote is found in the bill on the general wage freeze from February 1990. It is the most far-reaching intervention in what you call the negotiating model that has ever been proposed in Sweden. The government would go in and legislate and lock up all wages for two years, and strikes would be banned for all Swedish workers. Ingvar Carlsson thought it was so important that he resigned when he couldn't get through this. The proposal was brutal. Our proposal is a westerly fan. It's about the new arrivals for a few years. The parties must, of course, first solve it, otherwise society must take responsibility. What is at stake now is greater than what was at stake when Ingvar Carlsson wanted to take his brutal action. Then he wanted to stop inflation, and it was probably so important. But we want to prevent segregation and exclusion. Mr President, I would like to You call yourself a workers' party, the Social Democrats, but you are about to become a welfare party. You say and sign posters that everyone is coming, but you mean LO members who already have jobs are going. You are segregating Sweden. To all of you who have now marked against the Liberals' proposals, both the red-green ones and Anna Kinberg Batra, I would like to say: No one who works in Sweden should receive a reduced salary. In Sweden, we do not reduce wages for those who work. Everyone who works gets wage increases according to the agreements that are signed, but what we need to discuss is how newly arrived refugees should avoid being excluded. In our view, it is better that they can quickly get a first job, even if the starting salary there is slightly lower than it is in the rest of the labour market, than that they should have to go year after year on benefits. Jobs are better than subsidies, and our starting point is simple: everyone is coming.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-104	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want a labour market where everyone can fit and where everyone gets the chance to work to 100% of their ability. We don't have that today. We have many obstacles. Do you remember Karl Bertil Jonsson? No, I am not talking about Karl-Karl-Bertil Jonsson at the Swedish Post Office's fragile department that improved the shadow side of society, but I am talking about LO's Chairman 1994-2000 with the name Bertil– Bertil Jonsson. In the run-up to the 1996 LO Congress, he spoke about the labour market and said: We're in the way. Meeting participants! I promise you, we're still here. ..................................................... Stefan Löfven was then the ombudsman of the LO Association Metall. Maybe he was there listening and thinking: Yes! This is good. We're in the way! Let's say no. The Prime Minister seems to think the same 20 years later: we stand in the way – we stand still. How else is it to understand the unwillingness to act when we now see a strongly changed and two-tier labour market where foreign born and those with a lack of education have shrinking job opportunities and where the vulnerable groups are an increasingly large part of the unemployed? Does he not see the employment gap between native and foreign born? Hundreds of thousands of people with a lack of education and language skills do not get a chance on the Swedish labour market. The big gap in Sweden is between those who have a job and those who do not, and it widens. Sure, a fast track should be introduced, and that's good. During the gallows there are a couple of extensions of RUT, following agreements with the Alliance. But at the same time, the government's political lever is deteriorating the RUT ceiling. It makes companies hesitate. They hesitate to create jobs in an industry where nearly half are born abroad and four out of five come from previous unemployment and dismissal. Otherwise, it echoes empty in the government's reform workshop. Light's out. There are some trainee sites and promises of validation that have been heard before. It's not exactly frustrated by reformivism. The Social Democrats stand in the way of flexibility. They say no to every change, for example in a LO model that might have worked in the past but needs to be fixed a little now. Stefan Löfven is clear: No matter how much the labour market changes and becomes more difficult, he remains. He's in the way. Then you stand in the way of the vulnerable in the labour market to feel the pride of supporting yourself and becoming part of the working community at the coffee machine. With the Prime Minister's vocabulary: it is not okay, Mr President. We Christian Democrats have proposed introductory positions. It's got the Prime Minister on the roof. What, then, is the seizure we propose? Well, we propose a form of employment with initially at least 75 per cent of collective salary and 25 per cent training – learning-on-job-time for which the employer is responsible, with employment protection as for others. You learn the job at work, without any hassle and without special requirements – easily, so that the reform can make a difference. It is not a miracle medicine, but it is carried out together with many other reforms, to which I will return. A similar model with 75 percent pay and 25 education, although with a number of problems, is in a sense already in place. It has the support of the government and the Left Party and is called YA jobs. Stefan Löfven even thinks that companies without a collective agreement should be able to use this model. But in the YA jobs, authorities are to enter, and unions and employers are to enter into agreements centrally and locally. Plans must be written, followed up, checked and reported to the right and left. It is a good thought wrapped in the wet blanket of the bureaucracy and basically entirely dependent on whether the union prioritises this or not. Then we have to think again. The IMF, the OECD, the Council of Finances– all point to the need to lower the thresholds, of more simple jobs and to do something about the problem of high entry wages that shut people out. The government's own fiscal council believes that changes for certain groups do not have an impact on the labour market as a whole. For this reason, the Christian Democrats propose targeted tax incentives for the very groups targeted by the reform, new arrivals and young people. There is a need for access to the labour market for all. In the Swedish model, the goal of full employment is central. Everyone who can work. They should be allowed to qualify for unemployment insurance and health insurance, be able to train and there should be strong parties allowed to take and who take responsibility. If the parties do not take full responsibility, if the LO model does not contribute to the Swedish model but fails the vulnerable in the labour market, then we must also be able to discuss adjustments. We cannot continue to build walls around the labour market so that only those with perfect qualifications have a chance. Then we turn out hope and faith in the future. We need to find solutions, not dogmatism. We must protect man, not a certain system. Mr President, I would like to The government's lack of idea when it comes to the dual labour market does not become more beautiful because it is dressed in class struggle clothes. We do not need any more policies that say no. We need to remove what stands in the way. Soon, the Prime Minister has a four-minute chance to point to all the obstacles he's going to tear down and all the paths he's going to open to get more people to work. But he won't. He will continue to attack those who want to do just that, because he is standing in the way.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-116	Mr President, I would like to Undoubtedly, it is a huge challenge for newcomers to also work. This is a challenge which, of course, has grown with the large number of asylum seekers who have arrived in the country. It is quite natural that it will require simpler jobs, yes. That's where we're in complete agreement. Now the bourgeois stand in this Chamber and say: But we do not want to reduce wages. That is exactly what you propose. Some say so quite clearly, others want to legislate on shorter working hours, but unfortunately the result is the same for employees. The watershed in Swedish politics goes right here. It is between you who think that people should have jobs and are forced to have contributions and it is between us that people should be at work and not need subsidies. There's the dividing line.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-118	In all honesty, if you have not attended primary school, then you have a very small chance of getting a job, no matter how much Anna Kinberg Batra and Jan Björklund intend to lower their income. Instead, this government is now investing in Sweden's new job agenda, which is demonstrably producing results. It should also be able to please you. The unemployment rate is falling. We need to keep going. In addition, we are developing solutions to what is the real problem, that older newcomers with short education find it very difficult to get a job. They're the ones we're supposed to be targeting. Now listen carefully! There will be a need for subsidised employment. We will simplify employment support and develop modern preparedness jobs. We need different forms of shorter vocational training that do not require a great deal of prior knowledge. Many of the new arrivals bring important professional skills that are demanded in our labour market. As many as 70% of new arrivals are under 40 years old and have a long working life ahead of them. This is why the government, together with the social partners – the Swedish model – develops fast track into the shortage professions for new arrivals. It's about cooks, doctors, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, teachers, cutters, butchers and another 18 deficiency professions coming up. This is a strength statement for the Swedish model. Together with Sweden's employers, we create internships for new arrivals. This applies to both the authorities and the business community. Together with Sweden's municipalities, county councils and study associations, we improve language learning by hiring more SFI teachers. We also organise training in Swedish already at the asylum accommodation. Together with the bourgeois parties, we have decided to extend the RUT deduction so that they also include floating services, gardening services and certain IT services in the home. We are speeding up the assessment of foreign education. We improve the validation of competence. We start supplementary higher education for newly arrived academics. While the Moderates are cutting more than SEK 1 billion on the establishment of new arrivals, this government is investing SEK 870 million in efforts to shorten the way to work or to education. The Swedish model is based on everyone who has the opportunity also taking responsibility for supporting themselves through work. In order to clarify this model, we also want to introduce clearer requirements for the applicant for supply aid to also be at the disposal of the labour market. All this makes the government now, and we are prepared to do more, but I want to be extremely clear once again: we are not going to lower wages. We will not jeopardise the Swedish model.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-127	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your various contributions so far to this debate. Jonas Sjöstedt is surprised by Sweden's strong economic development. Let me start by revealing what's behind it. For eight years there was a budget in this country that made it more profitable to work, for example. We took responsibility for public finances that resulted in more foreign born than ever going to work. This is why the Swedish economy is still developing strongly after working on left-wing budgets. Jimmie Åkesson is here trying to avoid the job issue, as if not more ways into work is a crucial issue for integration. Maria Ferm raised several important questions about the importance of learning the language early and earlier coming into contact with the labour market. Concrete reforms are needed in order to do so. Today it may take several years before you are even defined as new arrivals. There's a lot more to it. But the Prime Minister is the one who is taking the hardest on this debate so far. He really takes it in, he has a high tone, it's hard words and he seems to be driven almost by some kind of hatred of the image of his political opponents. It is so strong that he even lies in Parliament's chambers. That's remarkable. I myself hate alienation. I meet people who wonder what they should do to get a foot into Swedish society. They have come here from other countries and wonder when they can start doing the right thing, when they can get on their feet to support themselves and their family, now that they have a new chance of life. Then I do not think first of all: How should I maneuver to retain power? How should I talk away the acute refugee crisis, or sound as angry as possible and paint pictures of my political opponents? I intend to take responsibility for implementing the reforms needed to break exclusion and get more people to work. Here is the crucial difference between the Prime Minister and me. It is a good thing that this difference comes to light in today's debate. It is good that the differences between Sweden's different government options are visible here. There are those who say you can't black out. They're absolutely right about that. At the same time, one must dare to describe Sweden exactly as it is. The Prime Minister said in his introduction that there were about 25 000 people who had really serious problems. Sweden is therefore a country where approximately 800 000 people or more live in exclusion. This is a major social problem. There's 800,000 dreams going out. 800,000 people who don't get the chance to prove their worth, 800,000 people asking themselves the question: What about me? Why can't I help build Sweden? A responsible government does not turn a blind eye to that. It does not cry out loud about its opponents, but acts to actually break the alienation. It is thin with concrete proposals from the Government Löfven. It's not surprising, but it's boring. More concrete reforms are needed for integration. The alliance parties have shown several different ways in so that more people can get the first job. We from the Moderates have five steps that Sweden quickly needs the most to build Sweden stronger. It must pay better to work. More people need to learn the job at work. More people have to make an effort to take the first job. More people need to learn more in Swedish school. Already the first day that people come here from other countries, we will ask: What can you contribute to building Sweden stronger? That's how we get a strong society that stays together. That is why we need new leadership.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-138	Mr President, I would like to This is not the first time we have this kind of debate in these contexts. I have spent some time playing so-called floskelbingo during the opening part of the debate, and I actually got bingo when Jan Björklund talked about lowered thresholds. What do lower thresholds actually mean in practice? It goes without saying that thresholds need to be lowered if people are to get to work. It's nothing weird. But, Mr President, the attack is coming. Now comes the attack on Swedish society, the attack on the Swedish model from the liberal faction in this House after eight years of government. The Swedish society has been divided and segregated. A totally irresponsible policy has been pursued. Then, after their government ownership, one comes and says that it is so bad that we have to have a change of system, that it is so bad that we have to redo the whole Swedish model if we are to move forward. It is a bit offensive, Mr President, to act in this way. First you tear down, then you call for system shift. In practice, lower thresholds mean lower wages, subsidised fake jobs, reduced labour law and the establishment of a permanent low-wage class in Swedish society. The vast majority of this low-wage class will be people who have come here from other countries. They will not have jobs on which to live and will not be able to make a living in the long term on the jobs they have. We risk a long-term permanent low-wage class in Swedish society, and that is not a solution that I want to see. We must fight it vigorously. Then there is the question of why this would work now. What is the difference between lower wages and what has been devoted to on the part of the bourgeoisie for eight years? The current government stands for the same; now Stefan Löfven is talking about subsidised jobs. It hasn't worked. The bourgeois government spent almost 70 billion only on category 13, i.e. integration. But almost none of it has worked. Let's take the entry-level jobs as an example. Only 7% have moved on to a real job without support. It's not working. What, then, is saying that lower wages will work? It has exactly the same effect. It is precisely the same inherent problem in such a reform as in everything else that has been dealt with. Mr President, I would like to This is not primarily about getting people to work. It is a question of fundamentally changing Swedish society. Unfortunately, as a result of irresponsible policies and bad decisions taken in the government during their time, we are well on the way to being forced to do so. There are very few people talking about real jobs in this debate, which I find a little boring. We have to build long-term. We cannot build society strongly through short-term solutions, by focusing on how we quickly solve the problems that have been created. There is no quick solution. I think that the last ten years have shown this with all the clarity that is desirable. This cannot be resolved quickly. We have to build something from scratch. We must build something in Swedish society that also makes us stick together in Swedish society. The first is to take responsibility for immigration policy. If you manage immigration policy, you also get effective integration. Secondly, we need to invest in real jobs, efforts to keep Swedish society together. Build around Swedish society and the things that unite us in Sweden! Then I am absolutely convinced that we will also keep Swedish society together in the long term, not just in the short term.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-145	Mr President, I would like to In my introductory speech, I highlighted in particular what opportunities exist in a growing Sweden and both exploit and acknowledge the opportunities for development with migration. I also highlighted how those who came to Sweden during the Balkan war have established themselves well here. At the same time, there are major challenges. Although the proportion of highly educated people is the same among foreign and domestic born people, half of those who have come to Sweden in recent years do not have upper secondary education. This is considerably fewer than the rest of the population. Ten per cent of foreign born children have only a pre-secondary education of less than nine years. For people born in Sweden, this proportion is barely 1 per cent. At the same time, the proportion of so-called low-skilled jobs, which you can get with short or no education, is small in Sweden compared to other countries. It is important that offensive measures are specifically targeted at this group and taken relatively soon, just as the Prime Minister mentioned. According to LO figures, 90 percent of those who came as asylum seekers to Sweden last year are for 40 years. It is to a large extent people who have a long working life ahead of them, who will be able to learn Swedish, that it pays to educate and who with the right efforts will be able to be a pure plus for Sweden within a few years. Previously, permanent residence permits have guaranteed a long-term establishment process, where people have had the opportunity to supplement what was lacking in their education in order to be able to work in their profession in Sweden or to be at all employable in the Swedish labour market. Now temporary residence permits are being introduced, but not because the government has seen it as desirable, but to deal with an unsustainable situation that has to do with the EU as a whole betraying its responsibility for people on the run last autumn. However, the temporary residence permits that are now being introduced for a limited period of time, as Mr Saco has pointed out, are in danger of getting highly skilled people to take up jobs for which they are overqualified for the purpose of obtaining a permanent residence permit. This gives them less chance of working in the profession to which they are trained in the long term. In this way, too, society is deprived of the skilled labour force they would otherwise bring. In addition, it pushes away people with lower education from the chances of working with things they could work with. This is why it is important to increase reception capacity and improve establishment. So we can get social support to speed up the return to a more humane migration policy. Sweden is growing, and what unites us is the building of our common future rather than common history, ethnicity or religion. We need to continue along this path and create ways into the labour market for more people. The government's fast track work for those who have previously worked as a chef, teacher, nurse or pharmacist is a clear example of how we can facilitate by creating contact spaces in the workplace that strengthen the individual and cover the needs of employers where there is a shortage of labour. Finally, I would like to say that I still look forward to the future. The Swedish labour market is doing very well, as is the Swedish economy. The fact that many people have come here in a short time is a challenge, but also an opportunity. It is an opportunity to get the extra hands in healthcare that we know we need so much, to build houses and train tracks to an extent we have hardly seen in modern times and to push the technological advances and research even further forward and make Sweden an even better country for more.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-152	Mr President, I would like to We see the problem of a division of the Swedish labour market, a division between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs. It's become an A-team and a B-team. Therefore, we from the Center Party want to put forward concrete proposals that allow more people to step into the heat, into the work community. Without people working, the Swedish model, which Stefan Löfven so strongly advocates, will be put at risk. Without people who work, there will be less resources for welfare. Entrance work is such a bridge builder. Reducing employers' contributions is another. But higher taxes mean higher walls. It is a narrow focus on those who are already working, on those who are already in the heat. With this one-sidedness, the walls are built stronger. This is quite the wrong way to go, not least in the situation that Sweden is in today. The Social Democrats are chanting that everyone should be able to live on their wages. And I agree, but a salary of your own is always better than a contribution. In fact, the only person in Sweden who has been involved in reducing the wages of those who already have a job is Stefan Löfven. He opened up this opportunity in his role as President of IF Metall, precisely because it was better to keep the job than to become dependent on benefits. Now, unfortunately, there's another sound in the bark. Now he does not want to allow the social partners to agree on agreements that would give new arrivals jobs to lower entry wages. New arrivals are denied their first job because Stefan Löfven is actually fighting windmills. Like Stefan Löfven, we want to develop the Swedish model, but unlike the Prime Minister, we also tell you how, namely with entry-level jobs. I can also take the opportunity to send a reassuring message to the Prime Minister: Lower entry wages lead to new arrivals getting jobs. This does not lead to lower wages for those who already have a job. On the other hand, it clearly leads to new jobs, and then jobs that are not being carried out today. It should, Mr President, be sweet music in everyone's ears and not least in the ears of the Prime Minister. After all, he claims to have a job agenda, and he also has a promise of Europe's lowest unemployment, which he is going to fulfil. Mr President, I would like to In the Center Party, we expect the government to be focused on finding solutions that create more jobs. But allow me to doubt. The green tax shift has become red tax increases. Id requirements and border controls are what should safeguard the right of asylum. Parents are getting divorced from their children. This, Mr President, is quite the wrong way for Sweden.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-161	Mr President, I would like to I thought, in the run-up to this debate, that I would measure a little bit what the other representatives are talking about. I myself see the issue of education as crucial. If we are to solve this, people must have vocational training that will enable them to get the jobs that we see coming. I thought I would measure how much the wage-sink parties – the Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats – will talk about education in this debate. Facite is zero seconds so far. So great is the interest in what is the solution here – zero. You've only talked about wage cuts and worse conditions. It is particularly remarkable that we have a former Minister of Education who does not seem to believe in education as a method of giving people opportunities in life. I think that reflects what this debate is about. It's about what kind of Sweden we want. Should we do what Sweden has been best at – invest for the future, invest in people so that they can get a job and make a living, build housing and build good communications – or should we use the situation to try to increase class differences and consciously create a B-team on the labour market? No, we know that cuts in wages do not mean more jobs. We know that lower wages give poorer people who have more difficulty in making a living and that they give poor pensions. That is what we know about lower wages. But we should reasonably have a higher ambition than that for what kind of society Sweden should be. It is clear that we should both bring down unemployment and enable people to make a living. One should be confident that one can live reasonably well and support one's family. That is our ambition, and we have the solutions to achieve it. I also note that no one here has defended the proposal on temporary residence permits. No one has defended the proposal to link residence permits to work. The only Member who has spoken about it is Maria Ferm of the Green Party. She has thoroughly and thoroughly attacked the proposal that the Green Party itself will be voting for here in Parliament in a while. It says a little about where the Green Party has ended up today. I think I know why you don't want to defend this. That is because you know that it is counterproductive to the establishment of the labour market. This means that those who have come here are vulnerable and extradited to rogue employers. What is this about in concrete terms? Take the woman who works in the restaurant kitchen and is exposed to sexual advances by the boss. The same manager decides if she can stay in Sweden, because if she leaves she may not get a residence permit. She's in a state of complete dependence. Should we create it deliberately? What do we tell the man who's got a job at a moving company but doesn't get the full salary and gets fucked up on part of his salary? Should he venture to go to the union and say that this is not how it should be done in Sweden? No, he's risking his whole future by doing it. We are building a trap, an opportunity to exploit people in a desperate situation, with the system of temporary residence permits and the link between residence permits and work. I think that is why it is so quiet in this House about what you all other parties know and are in favour of, that it will be bad for the establishment in Sweden. It is important to do the right thing, and we have the proposals to do so. Almost all the more important now is not to make mistakes. You are about to make mistakes and toss people into extreme vulnerability and dependence on rogue employers. You make it difficult for them to support themselves and become part of Swedish society. It is high time for you to reconsider.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-172	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt can always be trusted. He always has the same solutions to the problems, namely increased taxes and raised thresholds. But these are not raised thresholds into Sweden, because, as Jonas Sjöstedt said, he represents a party that says no to the tightening of the rules on refugee immigration to Sweden that a large majority is behind. Instead, he wants us to accept more, and that could be done if we were prepared to take very far-reaching measures for integration. But his only integration measure is to raise the thresholds even more in the labour market. Your policy of a combination of further increased reception of refugees and increased thresholds into the labour market not only leads to exclusion, which we are now on the way to, but would lead to a social disaster, Jonas Sjöstedt. Mr President, I would like to It is a proof of poverty that, in the most important debate taking place in our time, the refugee debate on integration, in order to bring its own party along, the country's Prime Minister must lie about what the rest of us stand for. No one is suggesting that those who have a job should receive a reduced salary. We are not proposing it, and it is our proposal that is the most concrete of all parties. What are we proposing? We suggest that newcomers for the first five years and young people under the age of 22 should be able to get a start job. There, starting wages are lower and taxation lower. I would like to see an agreement with the parties, similar to the agreement on the new jobs, in which we undertake to reduce the tax if they undertake to set lower starting wages. However, if the parties do not reach such an agreement, this House and the governments cannot waive their responsibilities. It is exactly the same way that Ingvar Carlsson reasoned in 1990. We hand over a very great power for Sweden's future to the parties, and it works as long as the parties assume their social responsibility. Now the major challenge is integration. If you refuse to touch it, society cannot otherwise abdicate. I am, of course, critical of LO's attitude, but at the same time I understand it. LO does not represent the entire Swedish people. LO represents its members, and those who are members of LO are those who already have a job. That's when you get recruited into a union. LO has no responsibility for those who do not have a job or who are now on their way to Sweden to get a job. If the parties are not prepared to take this responsibility, with the great power given to them by the Riksdag, the state must act. The state cannot abdicate if exclusion grows. Mr President, I would like to The government and Stefan Löfven talk about fast track for people through various educations. We think it's good. With the large influx of refugees now taking place, the development of adult education will be necessary. Training efforts are good, but that will not be enough. After all, we do not even succeed with all our own young people. A lot of people don't finish school without dropping out of high school. The idea that all those who come here quickly could be given a matriculation examination is, of course, not realistic. That is why we need further action. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is facing a huge societal challenge in the coming years. It is about integration and that Sweden should stick together. This requires rethinking and innovation, as the risk is that we are moving towards a massive increase in segregation and exclusion. Sweden's guiding principle should be what you Social Democrats put so well once upon a time: everyone should be included.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-183	Mr President, I would like to It is a much clearer debate. We have a government and a prime minister who in practice deny large groups of vulnerable people access to the Swedish labour market. You stand in the way while waving the flag of solidarity. You don't do what you're supposed to do to achieve your own job goal and seem to have abandoned the goal of full employment. But there must be an opportunity to build a life in Sweden with hope and faith in the future for new arrivals and young people. It must be possible even if you are young, even if you have shortcomings in your education and even if you are new arrivals. I think we need to do several things. Firstly, the Swedish labour market is demanding, and most jobs require qualifications. That will continue to be the case. We need to equip and train through college, university of applied sciences and vocational adult education. We need a better school with more special teachers, right to komvux at upper secondary level and validation. We're going to do the right things efficiently. We need to focus more on education with the combination of vocational preparation and language. But that is not enough, so secondly, we must have reduced thresholds with reforms, such as introductory positions, which meet what the IMF, the OECD and other assessors point out: it is difficult to get in because of high qualifications and high entry wages. When we say 75 per cent of collective salary and 25 per cent education at work, Stefan Löfven says that it is government poor wages. He himself has this reform, although a more complicated version with 200 forms to be approved by the authorities and unions. Here, too, 75% of collective wage and 25% of education are paid. However, he does not have proposals to reduce taxes on these groups. Thirdly, we need to open up so that more everyday jobs can emerge. RUT should be broadened and in particular include services performed unpaid week after week in Swedish households. The VAT on repairs will be reduced so that work can be moved from unpaid to paid so that more everyday jobs can grow up and black jobs become white. Someone can get laundry for an older person or family and deliver ready-wrinkled laundry to put in the closet. It's not part of the RUT today. We also need to test whether we can stimulate the return of administrative jobs in different ways, which have long been rationalised away. This has often meant that people who should do other things, such as developing high-tech products, teaching, solving crimes or caring for patients, perform administration instead. Fourthly, we need previous efforts in the asylum process for languages, education and jobs. Fifthly, we need to simplify and clear up the jungle of labour market support and programmes that no employer has in mind except those dedicated to maximising subsidies. We should focus on the support that has succeeded best, such as new start jobs, and abolish those that have worked the worst or have been condemned. We will provide greater job opportunities for people with disabilities and for those who have a long way back. Mr President, I would like to In Christian Democrats' Sweden, not everyone always works full-time, but everyone should have the chance to work 100 percent of their ability. We know that the difference between survival and living is often a job. That is why the question of jobs is so much greater than the needs of the labour market. It is about basic human needs: having a place and being asked for. It is these basic needs that it is clear that the Prime Minister lacks a sensible plan for, or a plan at all. That is one of the most clear messages during this debate.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-194	Mr President, I would like to Let me first remind you of what I said in my opening statement. When we took office, it took seven years for a new arrival to get to work. It's the result of your reign. You refused to see that, just as you refused to see the falling school results. You had no responsibility for that either. The more you were in government, the less it was your responsibility. Now that you're no longer in government, you'll gain from all the good things that happen. The only conclusion of this is that Sweden is in the best position when you are in opposition.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-197	You tried the right-hand experiments. You wasted SEK 110 billion on so-called youth unemployment contributions to help a few. It totally failed. Now you're back on the same track, though it's more serious. Now 1 million Swedish wage and salary earners will be pushed downwards. But you do not understand the Swedish model and wage formation. It is not possible to pay a group a little lower salary in isolation without affecting the others. Research is clear about this. About 25% of the lowest paid will be affected and wages will be reduced. That's how wage formation works. In addition, you are undermining the Swedish model if politicians are to go in and pay salaries, and that is what you do not understand. You're not good enough to run the payroll. Leave it to the parties. You are free to yell at LO, but TCO and Saco say the same thing: They do not want any involvement of politicians in wage formation. Neither does any scientist or expert. Withdraw that proposal and you will do Sweden a favor. We will focus efforts on the people who need it. It's about fast track, training and easier jobs. The work is the basis for the Swedish model, but wages should not be reduced. People should live on their wages.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-202	Mr President, I would like to This debate has clearly demonstrated the options in Swedish politics. There are those who would rather point their finger at others and put their strength on lying about their political opponents than on the reforms needed to break the alienation. The worst is not that it is rude and inappropriate, but that it risks the 800 000 who are already in exclusion soon becoming even more numerous. The alienation must be broken. But after this debate, we can see that we have a Prime Minister who is turning a blind eye to this. What the four parties of the Alliance have shown during the debate are various proposals to open up the labour market to more people and to develop policies to bring about concrete reforms so that more people can get their first job in Sweden. Everyone who can work is going to work. This is how we build Sweden together. When people grow, Sweden also grows. For us it's not big, empty words we say on a Saturday. For us, it is the reality that we want to implement with reforms every day in government. This debate shows that we need another government. It is naive to think that the refugee crisis is over. At the same time, we must improve the integration of Swedish society. It is needed in school, in the labour market and in society as a whole. That is why work must pay better. More people need to learn the job at work. More people have to make an effort to take the first job. More people need to learn more in Swedish school. And Sweden must ask the question from day one: How can people help us to continue to be one of the world's strongest societies? If we do this with concrete reforms, Sweden can do more.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-209	Mr President, I would like to The usual hiking myth that it takes seven years for a new arrival to get a job in Sweden is nonsense. That's not true. After seven years, about half are working. It's not the same thing; it's something completely different. Mr President, I would like to Do your duty, demand your right. I believe that in this context we must build with both requirements and incentives. Please come to Sweden. You're welcome to live here permanently, but you'll have to adapt. You have to learn the language, you have to learn the community, you have to take part in the community and you have to make a living. You should strive to become Swedish. Then you can also have full access to well-being and public service. You should be able to qualify for citizenship in Sweden. I mean, that's how we have to build. The tools we will give to the people who will be validation, education in the Swedish language, education in general and social orientation and the like. The fact is that for about 20 years now we have had an integration policy in this country. So far, very little of it has worked. So we have to think new. We must assume that those who come to our country must also want to become part of society themselves. It can not only be the responsibility of society to solve this, but one must want to. That is where, Mr President, we land when we sum up this: do your duty, and then demand your right! We will create the tools, we provide the tools, but if this is to work, those who come here must also want to become part of Swedish society.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-215	Mr President, I would like to During today's debate, several perspectives and proposals have been put forward on how the labour market could include more. It is one of the great tasks of our time to provide opportunities for people to create a future in our country and thus strengthen Sweden as a country and take our responsibility for people who have fled war and persecution. However, we must not forget that racism and xenophobia continue to be a social problem that limits individuals' ability to realize themselves and feel included in society. The Government's commitment to both counteracting and preventing various forms of racism is a central cornerstone of how we can include more people in the Swedish labour market and in society as a whole. Openness to the outside world has historically benefited Sweden. Sweden has grown with people's drive, instinct and ability to translate their ideas and ideals into a desire to create a better life for themselves, their close and society at large. Sweden's economy can grow if we take advantage of newly arrived skills. I would like to thank the Liberals who initiated this debate and also thank all the parties who have participated and talked about this important issue.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-219	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that this debate has made me worried. Instead of allowing people to work their way out of exclusion, it is clear that the new arrivals should be relegated to benefit systems and waiting. To those who come to this country and may even lack their own written language, the message is that you should go through comprehensive school, upper secondary school and perhaps even college, and only then can you get a job in this country. Until then, you're going to live on grants. For us in the Center Party it is obvious that a job is always better than no job at all. It is better to start working quickly than to passivate. Mr President, I would like to I'm worried. I am not funny that we have a government that is not capable of carrying out the reforms needed to increase jobs. D e is so busy chanting about the Swedish model that they forget about the people behind it. D your willingness to defend the systems puts people at risk. It's about tens of thousands of people. N yanlända does not get an honest chance to contribute to our common welfare, to get colleagues, have a safe life and be able to meet at the coffee machine. The Center Party's proposal for entry jobs can be used as a ram against the high thresholds of the labour market. We have a wide range of expert bodies in this. I would therefore like to make a final appeal to the government. In front of the entrance job, and give these people a chance. I'd love to be educated, but first a job. It is high time for action.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-224	Mr President, I would like to For every complex social problem, there is a solution that is simple, easy to understand and completely wrong – normally Jan Björklund's position in the debate. This is also the case in this discussion. It is believed that complex societal challenges can be solved by nationalising wage policies and forcing wage cuts for those who already earn too little. It is not a solution to any social problem. Jan Björklund uses the strike ban in 1990 as an argument. One cannot use a big mistake as an argument to make the same mistake again but in another form. I believe that the Social Democrats also realise that it was a bad proposal. It was also a proposal that led us to bring down a Social Democratic government – something that we do not usually do every week directly. We want those who come here to educate themselves. We want them to feel at home in Swedish society. They're going to get a job, and they're going to establish themselves. I am thinking of one of my parliamentary collegues whose parents fled here from the Iran of dictatorship. They just did this. They obtained higher education, employment, and housing, and they raised their children. One of them is now in the Swedish Parliament. She said: With temporary residence permits, I never think they would have dared to apply to the university. They wouldn't bet. They would not have known if they would still be in Sweden. I think that is what this debate should be about. If those who are now here and are the parents of future MPs, or whatever they will do in the future, should actually feel: Here I will be left. It is a fundamental mistake to introduce temporary residence permits and to link residence permits to work. The risk is that you get stuck in jobs that do not provide security and development. The risk is being exploited by rogue employers who have all the power over people's future. It is bad for the establishment in Sweden. I wish this debate had been more about it. I would like to thank both the President and the co-debaters for the discussion.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-231	Mr President, I would like to I have listened to the Prime Minister's speech during this debate and tried to understand what is the government's response to how these people who now come to Sweden to a very large extent and have a low level of education, i.e. not those who are doctors, should enter the labour market. I hear a concept that the Prime Minister comes back to time and time again, and it is modern preparedness work. I wonder why the PM doesn't say trainee work. They were the ones who were going to fix the problems of the labour market before the elections. 32,000 trainee jobs he promised, but it hasn't turned out anything. It is the biggest flop in Swedish Amshistoria, and the competition is tough about that epithet, I can say. Now it's called modern emergency work. It is of course the same thing; call it what you want. I will say that even the measures that the bourgeois parties want to take in this area, when you go in and do artificial jobs, have difficulty getting hold of them. You hope and wish that the volumes will be much larger than they become. The reason for this is often that it gets too complicated. The authorities do not speak the language of business and companies, and then businesses ignore it. It's surrounded by a lot of rules. Everyone also knows that when the Riksdag enters with a subsidy, it can be temporary and end when the next budget is put on the table or in three years or so, and then you sit there with large costs that you have taken on. That is why Am measures and subsidies have difficulty in getting effect in reality, whether they are called trainee jobs or standby jobs. This also applies to the various actions of the Alliance. In order for it to be effective, proper conditions are needed in the labour market. Yes, Prime Minister, unemployment is now falling. It is declining as a result of a long-term stable economic policy in Sweden. It is declining as a result of the economic cycle. The problem is that those who are farthest from the labour market do not notice that unemployment is falling, but it is those with good education who are now getting a job. It is, of course, a good thing that they have it, but we are in danger of creating a very large exclusion because of the situation we are currently in. And, Prime Minister, work is better than contributions. I would like to thank Mr President for granting our debate to the parliamentary board, and I would like to thank my fellow debaters.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-237	Mr President, I would like to Does the Prime Minister not see the challenge of the dual labour market, how more and more people in vulnerable positions, often born abroad, do not get a chance to enter the Swedish labour market? Does he not see the risk of increased periods of unemployment — long periods of unemployment that can inherit social exclusion? It's about children growing up who don't see their parents go to work. I ask because Stefan Löfven clearly says 'no' here today to reforms that can just give people in vulnerable positions jobs. Instead, we do not get an answer to this problem. The Christian Democrats' proposal does not mean that those who have jobs receive lower pay, but we want to give young and newcomers who do not have a job or pay the chance to get a job where they learn the job at work at a slightly lower starting salary: 75% of collective wage, where 25% is education and learning-sig-job-on-job-time. That is our proposal. The government's own fiscal council is in charge of research. They say that such jobs do not lead to lower wages or less security for those who have a job. We propose this along with reforms for education, for everyday jobs, for more of past efforts and for better labour market policy support. Then we open the real gates into Swedish society, into working community and community. This is what the Christian Democrats want. It is still obscured what the Social Democrats want, more than preserving the Swedish model. The Prime Minister now has two minutes to explain why he stands in the way of reforms that bring Sweden towards the goal of full employment where everyone gets the chance. Thank you, everyone, for this debate.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-242	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I turn to those who have gone up in the debate and said that they do not hear any government proposals. You do not hear anything that does not sound like tax cuts or wage cuts! You refuse to listen to other things. However, I recommend that you read the Minutes of this debate. Then you will see a number of very good proposals. I thank Jan Björklund for the initiative for the debate. It's been good. It has been refreshing, and it has made clear the dividing lines of Swedish politics and that you are no longer trying, in various parties on the bourgeois edge, to label you as a workers' party. It is very clear what your policy is about. There are three great things proposed from the bourgeois edge. The first is large tax cuts of a total of SEK 64 billion. Everyone understands what it will do with welfare. You also want to reduce the wages of ordinary employees, because that is what your proposals will mean. On top of that, you run market rents, not least the Liberals, which would directly mean increased rents. This is not something that Swedish employees feel good about. It is a rare toxic cocktail for Swedish employees and the Swedish economy. It is hitting welfare, and it will hit people's wallets directly, and so we shall avoid it. Against this is the government's policy, our alternative, where we invest for a modern Sweden. It is a real investment where everyone works and can live on their wages – not working and being forced to benefit, as in your recipe. We invest in more knowledge, strengthened innovation, innovation and higher productivity, so that the Swedish business community strengthens its competitiveness and can assert itself high up in the value chain. That is how we can afford a high-quality welfare, and so we can also maintain and develop a high standard of living. This, my friends, is a Sweden to be proud of! We will continue to develop the Swedish model. We're not going to phase it out.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-249	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservations 1 and 6, i.e. both the Alliance and the Moderates. We are going to discuss a motion report on integration policy with several motions, both from the Alliance and the government parties. Of course, it is rejection that is being called for the rest of the exercise. There has been a story of hopelessness in Sweden. There is talk of a development that we cannot influence and that Sweden is facing major social problems. It can't be denied that we're facing challenges – in fact, it's almost reducing to call it challenges, because it's big problems Sweden faces, and they're not easy to solve. These are large groups of people who need education. They need quite a lot of training, something we have never experienced in history. We are used to higher levels of education being raised in iteration, generation after generation. But now it's about raising the level of education for large groups of people who have a level of education we haven't had in Sweden for about 100 years. It's about illiteracy. About 30 per cent of the m enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen have six years of primary school or less, and this figure does not include migration in the last autumn. Approximately 50% have nine-year primary school or lower education background. Among women, the largest proportion of women enrolled in the establishment reform has never been employed at any time in their entire lives. To call it a challenge is an understatement – it is a huge problem that Sweden in modern times has not had experience in dealing with. However, it is possible to look further back in time and look at how Sweden practiced the fight against poverty then. It started mainly with the children, with compulsory schooling for children. It was probably one of the most important reforms to get people out of poverty. Then, just as now, there were norms, cultures and traditions that kept the children on the farm. But we were brave and gave it up. We made clear demands, and the children went to school. Perhaps it was difficult on an individual level for the child or parents, but in the end it was for the benefit of society. We must have the same starting point in integration policy. It is not possible to measure only at individual level, but also at macro level. It is not only possible to look at the difficulties of the first generation, but also to see whether the second generation benefits from the efforts of the first generation. I think that the discussion that has been about entry wages on the Swedish labour market has been conducted in a rather one-sided way by the various parties. First of all, we need to make it easier for people to get to work. You can't get away from it. You cannot raise the level of education for so many people of so many different ages to such a level that they qualify directly into the Swedish labour market. You cannot do so on such a large and broad basis that you get the required increase in employment rates. Joakim Ruist made an economic calculation for the Ministry of Finance. In that calculation it was very clear. If we raise the employment rate of foreign-borns, of immigrants, by 10 percentage points – this is a radical increase – we would reach, so to speak, the state financial break-even in 50 years' time. It's enough to reduce it to call it a challenge. If we are to make it a 10% level of employment for these people, we need to raise levels of education incredibly much for groups that have never been trained before or that have a very weak educational background. It's an educational journey they're going to make in adult life. We know that's a lot harder. Of course we need training. We need to educate everyone according to our best ability. But you do not come from the fact that you also have to make it easier for these people to get into work. They should be able to take jobs despite their lower productivity. We know that a large part of one's productivity development in Sweden takes place in workplaces. It is at work that you learn new methods and models. You learn norms. You learn how to work. This is why it is important to ensure that more people have access to work and can make that productivity journey even though they have a weak educational background. We're not getting away from that. Here it becomes very clear with the model of the Social Democrats. They don't believe this. Yes, they do, because when LO does this, it's okay. When LO only offers wages of 13 000 SEK a month for their apprentices, precisely to increase their productivity in the workplace, it is okay. Even though they don't get lower rent because they're apprentices and even though they don't get cheaper food because they're apprentices, it's okay to give them $15,000. The principle is very simple: You do not pay salary for education. That is a reasonable principle that we have in Sweden. The same must apply to many of the newly arrived or young people who are present in Sweden. Let's say you take a job that you can't fully do. They want to learn it on the ground and want to increase their productivity in the workplace. Then you must be able to do so and not get paid for the time you learn. It is exactly the same principle as LO itself puts forward in its argumentation. In addition, we in the Moderates believe that the wage subsidies and so on are too complicated. They are largely ineffective. We know that certain forms of grants or subsidies are so complex that, despite being very generous, employers are reluctant to use them. They are simply too complicated. They require very large hand-to-hand placement of employment services, etc. A more effective form of such support is, for example, the start-up jobs, which are given to those who have been unemployed after a certain period of time. The IFAU's evaluations have proved to be one of the more effective forms of employment support. Perhaps the proof is that the Social Democrats choose to retain this employment subsidy. New start jobs are a model you can expand. You can actually combine large parts of the subsidy we have for employers with this in order to make it easier and more reasonable. It can be based on reduced tax rather than direct subsidies and so on. It's a much more reasonable model. We in the Alliance have a proposal on how to make entry-level jobs a little more reasonable in the short term, at least, until we can perhaps have a more thorough review of these employment subsidies. For example, the point of this is very good. Where do we learn to speak Swedish? Yes, it is in workplaces and it is together with other Swedes. You don't learn good Swedish on a sfi bench. I studied German for seven years in Swedish school, and I am not viable in the German labour market. But if I had been to Germany for six months, my language would probably have improved much. Why should this simple principle not also apply to new arrivals? It is clear that one should be able to combine, for example, a language practice or a job with education. Why should this training only be on SFI? Why can't you do this when you're studying math at Komvux? Why should you not be able to do this when you study Swedish B at Komvux, for example? Here we see very clearly that we in the Alliance have joined forces and are proposing this change, while the red-green parties are against this. That is regrettable, because it would have been a more reasonable model than we have today when it is limited to SFI alone. These were our pleas and our justifications in today's debate. I hope that the debate will be interesting. It will be exciting to finally hear what the red-greens have to come up with in this policy area, because so far we have heard very little.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-271	Mr President, I would like to At least some of us, if not all of us, have been sitting in the Chamber for almost two hours listening to a debate. It would be about the way into the labour market, but it was basically about what many of my colleagues want to discuss in this debate as well, namely how to get into the Swedish labour market for ersons who have recently arrived in Sweden and been granted a residence permit here. It is often referred to as integration. It is something that I and my party fail to define what integration or segregation is really. I have taken notes during this morning's debate. I thought I'd start a little bit with what came up at the end. It was said in the debate: Thresholds create segregation. It is quite telling, because it shows very clearly what has gone wrong in this area. Of course it is: the harder it is to enter a labour market and the more regulations and bureaucracy there are that are perceived as troublesome, the longer it takes to enter society. But segregation is about many more aspects than how easy or difficult it is to enter the labour market. Segregation is not solved by fake jobs or by people possibly being able to support themselves to a certain extent. Segregation is not solved by the fact that everyone has a job, if the jobs are in different sectors and with different conditions and if people do not meet people from different backgrounds or see society as a whole. A few weeks ago I saw an interactive map of the United States, which is often highlighted as a good example of how diversity works, not least by the bourgeois parties and their friends, who talk about precisely reduced thresholds and low wages as entrances. On the map they had marked, in different colors, every single citizen according to the person's background and ethnicity. It was an extremely segregated society that grew up. It was extremely clear. It is not enough to have some form of employment and it is not enough with low wages and other entry conditions for it to be a society where we are not divided, where we break segregation. That's not enough by a long shot. Mr President, I would like to Another news flashed by a few weeks ago was a survey conducted at Södertörn University. It was presented as that Swedish democrats have a negative view of people. If you look at the question, you might see that the survey as such was not entirely wrong. But what does that mean? In this context, it means that we do not always believe that people always want other people good and always do their best at all times. This means that, unlike the other parties, we do not have such a naive view of what policy to build because we also see what unwelcome consequences it can have. The road to hell is paved with good intentions. I think I have said it some time before in this House, and that is indeed the case. Integration policy has for far too long been based on good intentions. It has created many holes, many voids that have been exploited and that have had a direct counterproductive effect. It is very striking to see and hear, during a debate like the previous one, what an incredibly passive view the other parties have of those who come to our country: it is our responsibility to let them into society. They themselves bear no responsibility of their own. It's our fault if people end up in alienation. Sometimes it is absolutely so. There are problems in our society. There are problems in our systems. But basically we need to make sure that the conditions and opportunities are created so that individuals can do what they want, get where they want and realize themselves and their dreams. This is not achieved through subsidised special solutions. This does not come by treating people who have arrived in our country as victims, as some of us are going to take care of. Mr President, I would like to In our reservation and in the previous debate, in which my party leader exemplified our view of integration policy and the construction of society, we stress precisely this, that it is about much more than one place in the labour market. I have a confession to make: I am not a politician in the first place to look at who has jobs and who does not have jobs, even though I am on the Labour Market Committee. I think that building a community is about so much more than that. I myself have seen and experienced through my contacts and my background what it means not to feel at home, what it means to feel a rootlessness, what it means to be left out for real. That is an enormous amount more than not being able to make a living. It is to feel lost and confused, to feel that something is missing within you. It was illustrated quite clearly that many people know this, for example in the melody festival when we heard our national anthem changed and in the discussion about it it was motivated by the fact that it was a statement about how important it is to ensure that everyone feels that their background is there, that their background is valid, that your roots and where you come from is something you carry with you. Of course it is. I am convinced that it is part of the human need to feel contact with their roots. It's more than just living and working here and now and just looking forward. We have a need for our history. But what is often forgotten is that this also applies, of course, to our society and to those who have their history and background here, whether it is a history or a background de facto, or because they have actually taken it to heart. When I talk about the history of Sweden, I see it as my story, regardless of whether my parents and their parents lived in Sweden or not. They didn't, at least not their whole life if I talk about my parents and not at all if I go further back. That is also why, in our second reservation, which I would also like to endorse, we are talking about the importance of the fact that, when we promote establishment and discuss segregation crime, we must talk about other things than the establishment of the labour market and more than just those who have just come here. The segregation and divisions that exist in our society create human suffering, divide our country and create insecurity. We must focus on actually recognising our history and culture, welcoming others in and enabling them to know what is the new home country. What is my country at all? It may not be my new one, but what has always been my home country. I'm afraid we've lost sight of this. I often refer to a discussion I had at a seminar during the teacher education, where I heard my fellow students in the group next door discuss just what is Swedish culture and Swedish history. There was a girl, by the way, with a foreign background – my experience is that it is often people with foreign background who see the problem that we have forgotten and taken it for granted here at home – who highlighted the question that if we even ask the question of what is Swedish, then surely we have lost something? Then something's been lost, isn't it? Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what it is. When we no longer stand up for our country, our history, our culture, our customs, when we no longer know ourselves, then we lose something to ourselves and then we also lose the ability to invite others to our society. Then we'll create segregation. When we build politics on quick solutions, looking at a person, counting on how long he's been in the country and saying you can get subsidised pay, but you can't get it because you've been here too long-- then we'll create contradictions. Then we'll divide our society. Then we'll separate our country. When we close our eyes to creating jobs where the only people who work are those who can get these subsidies, because the employer is building his whole practice on it, then there is no integration that happens if someone is hired, because then you are still segregated. Then it is a special low-wage class that has been built up, or a subsidy class if we now prefer to pretend that a subsidy in some way is not a subsidy. You still don't get into society. There is much to say about this area. My speech may sound somewhat confused, but it is precisely because I find it so difficult to decide what I want to talk about. If we read through both the bill and the report, we can see how to brag with, for example, the collection of Sweden together that was held. That's amazing. I was there. They sang together. But it wasn't a real insight into the situation. There are quotes that the reception is currently decreasing in Sweden, and that might make it easier. But this has been written in the middle of winter. Then it's always decreased. The situation down in Greece right now is that it is increasing again. We are on our way to the same figures as last year, and although we do not reach the same figures, although the Migration Board's forecast indicates up to 140 000 and they have also often been surpassed, it is a historically greater reception than for a very, very long time. And here we are discussing as if everyone should enter the labour market as quickly as possible. All available means should be used – subsidies, subsidies – while talking about the rejection of 80 000, while at the same time contradicting yourself in every sentence. For me, it is quite obvious: We must build Sweden based on Sweden. We must welcome people into our country. We must recognise the society we have, the value of our unique social fabric. We need to see how it can be opened up to those who actually want to become part of our Sweden, not how we should patch and fix a system that has completely failed.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-295	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd try to focus a little bit on what Paula Bieler said. She had some points that integration means far more than just economic ones, namely that it is a social process to become Swedish and become part of Swedish society. That's right. Here the classic left-right conflict becomes a question of what the state can achieve. What is the role of the state? This is where it doesn't make sense. In view of the effectiveness of other measures taken by the state, a government programme for Swedish people would probably be the most ineffective program ever to be implemented. First of all, there are no scientific models for success. It is a social project, i.e. by socializing with other Swedes you become Swedish. Here it becomes more difficult on the issue of economic integration. Certainly you can become economically integrated but still live segregated. It's quite possible. However, it is almost impossible to be economically segregated and at the same time try to integrate oneself socially. It's very difficult if you can't afford to live where Swedes live or if you can't afford to pay the expenses that exist to send your child to another school, for example. All these things require economic integration. It is about economic integration, especially in a country like Sweden that has the largest proportion of working people in the world. Especially if we look at this, we are talking about an employment rate of up to 95%. It is at the workplace that the Swedes find themselves. Where is it to be socialized with the Swedes if it is not in the workplace?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-299	Mr President, I would like to We have had this discussion in various forums, from online debates to this House. First of all, I have to argue a little bit. The issue of economic integration is not always a requirement. I have not spent my entire life living in a family with good economic integration in society, but there are actually opportunities to meet representatives of Swedish society anyway – demonstrably. But it is absolutely true that work is a major and important part of our lives. It's usually where you meet colleagues and socialize. What I am opposed to is that the policy pursued, with the subsidised special solutions and special employment, has created a segregated labour market. It's a fake job market. It's no longer like when my parents came here. Dad worked at the Volvo factory side by side with Swedes, learned Swedish and got into society through the job. Now there are specific industries. We see a clear division of the Swedish labour market. We see that it has been put into the system of employers to use the subsidised subsidies to have new arrivals with them for a while. Then it goes on to the next one. The results of the initiatives are almost non-existent. That's 11% for any subsidy support. Seven per cent have entered the regular labour market after six months through entry jobs. Billions have been invested in getting people into the labour market, as it is said, but it has been a fake market. They have not entered the labour market because they have built systems where new arrivals work with new arrivals for a cheap money and where the government pays. Then they do not meet the Swedish society, but they are exploited instead. This is not what I want to build in Sweden.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-304	Mr President, I would like to If you come as a new arrival and get a subsidised employment to learn Swedish in a workplace, it is a point not to end up with fellow citizens. My municipality of residence Solna has the requirement in the language practice that there must not be compatriots where you are going to work. This leads to fantastic language development. That's one way to solve the problem. Paula Bieler has a point in the fact that some forms of subsidy are incredibly ineffective. Rather, they are so ineffective that they are not used. They don't cost billions because they're too complicated to use. They do not have any impact on the labour market because so few use them. But let's look at the slightly more effective forms, such as new start jobs. There, a large proportion goes on to work. It is a grant granted to both native and foreign born, whether you are an immigrant or not. They have a good effect. There are points to such subsidies, in particular because the outflow is reasonably high compared to all other comparable measures undertaken by the State. On the other hand, I have doubts about Paula Bieler's alternative. What's the alternative? The borders have now been closed. Everything is relative when you talk to the Swedish Democrats. Now the volumes have been reduced, and the government has promised to continue. Let's say the government holds fast and succeeds. What does Paula Bieler want to do to get people to work?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Yeah, there's a fresh start, and a lot of people are moving on. The majority still do not enter the regular labour market. In addition, new start jobs have received criticism, among other things, that many who have entered the labour market probably would have entered the labour market anyway. But just as Hanif Bali said, it is a venture that turns to several, which is perhaps one of the reasons why it works better. In the new start jobs you look more at the individual's situation. We have not opposed that principle. What we are opposed to are separate solutions where immigrants are treated as a group, especially new arrivals. You often forget about old arrivals. I heard that Maria Ferm has also begun to use the expression. I think I've said it before, and I'm sure I've said it to others too. What do the Swedish Democrats want to do? We're not gonna promise you a quick fix. Just as I've said so many times before, there's no quick fix. What you have to do is look at how Sweden was built strongly before and how generally a more vibrant and better labour market is created – and invest in such measures. That is why, as is so often complained about, we do not have specific integration programmes with separate solutions. We stress clearly and strongly that these efforts are in other areas. We are talking about the conditions for small businesses, creating opportunities for more real jobs by making it easier for small businesses to grow into medium-sized and larger companies. We're talking about apprenticeships. We were one of the first parties, if not the first party, in this House to talk about apprentices as an individual form of employment. It is an excellent validation opportunity for those who in practice want to show what they can to enter the labour market. You can also learn and supplement at work. This is the policy we have been talking about for years that you are trying to package as your own and new. It will take time, but that's how you build Sweden.
i-CAF3WtCXWRmS7oVbjhQV4E	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Center Party's reservation No 3 and also the alliance joint reservation No 6. Just as has been highlighted in the early morning debate between party leaders and initially in this debate, Sweden has a great challenge in getting people to work. It is absolutely crucial to have the opportunity to get into work, to get self-support and, above all, to get into our community. There are major challenges in the labour market. We see a great division between the people who today have a job and those who do not have a job. It's absolutely crucial to get over it. In terms of integration, Sweden has not been good enough for a long time. Today it takes between seven and ten years from receiving half of the new arrivals into work. In Sweden, the employment rate of newcomers is 16 percentage points lower than in Europe, and Sweden is the worst in the class. This shows the need for substantial reforms on the part of Sweden. The Center Party wants to see a series of reforms to improve the labour market so that more people can get a foothold in the labour market. We want to give them an opportunity to show off, gain experience and self-sufficiency. Government parties often focus on training and matching. It's incredibly important. I share the view of many of the proposals linked to validation and matching. The Center Party wants to go further in several situations. In terms of matching, Arbetsförmedlingen has not worked for a long time. For example, vision must be changed by means of a job fixarpeng. In terms of training, there are a number of shortage jobs where the industry and companies are screaming for labour but are not able to hire. Vocational training, both university of applied sciences and vocational adult education, as well as specialised professional schools in the rather narrow sectors that have a great need but may not be able to organise training at local level, is extremely important there. I think that is absolutely crucial. But more measures are needed than just training and matching, even if it is extremely important. That is why the Center Party has proposed a number of simplifications linked to both entry companies and entry jobs. Entry companies are, of course, an opportunity for young but also newcomers to easily start a business and run a business to a limited extent and then be able to switch up to another form of company. We think that would be very successful. Entry-level work was a major part of the last debate. We are prepared to reduce employers' contributions but also income taxes if the parties agree to introduce so-called entry jobs for new arrivals. It is extremely important that the parties also take their responsibility for more people entering the labour market. Other proposals are also needed. During the winter we have presented proposals that you can work from day one when you come to Sweden. Today, if you as a newcomer are to start working, you have to apply for a permit from the Migration Agency to work. We find that unreasonable. Instead, it should be obvious that the basic prerequisites are that you actually get to work from the day you come to Sweden – even during the time you apply for a residence permit. There is also a need for regulatory simplification in the various schemes linked to subsidised employment. It is one of the proposals put forward jointly by the Alliance that is linked to the entry-level jobs. We need simplifications and improvements in these so that they can benefit more people. This is often what companies highlight – they wonder why they do not use those forms of employment. That's because it's usually too complicated and too difficult. In addition to changes in the labour market, as the report also mentions, we see that changes are needed in both the reception system and the start-up mandate. There, the Center Party wants to see a local integration, where we allow municipalities and civil society to take responsibility to a greater extent, but also give them the conditions for it. That is why we have proposed that we allow the municipalities to take over responsibility for the reception and reception of asylum seekers. We have also proposed that the commission should return from Arbetsförmedlingen to the municipalities. In the local community, municipalities are in control of the labour market, and they can better be a greater part of the establishment. They also have the financial incentives to do so, because people are not allowed to get to work, they eventually end up in income support and then become a cost to the municipalities. Giving municipalities the task of setting up also gives them a strong incentive to take the necessary measures for people to get to work. But it is also necessary that national policies create the conditions with better regulations in the labour market and create the conditions for small and growing companies, which are the engine of Swedish politics. Here, what was included in the Migration and Integration Agreement between the Government and the Alliance is extremely important – that career introduction contracts where you have both jobs and education quickly come into place. The proposal is that it should also apply to new arrivals but also to companies without collective agreements. I am excited that it will soon be presented by the government.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-332	Mr President, I would like to We are debating integration issues. These are perhaps the most important issues for our country right now and for the coming decades. How can we manage to modernise Sweden and secure our future as an industrial country and a developed welfare country while many people come to Sweden? Many of them do not have the language skills, qualifications or competences that companies are calling for. This is a problem that we are all well aware of. At the same time, we can have different political proposals for how we can get there. Our party, Mr President, is basically an immigration-friendly party. Moreover, we are also an emigration-friendly party – we believe that if the individual chooses to settle somewhere to build his or her future there, the individual should be allowed to do so. I have the right to choose for myself. This is not entirely unproblematic for a country like Sweden, which at the same time has very comprehensive support systems and requires a great deal of its citizens and citizens. It is very difficult to get here and in just a year or two know how everything works and have its whole future secured. We have a system in Sweden that is based on the fact that from the time a woman is confirmed pregnant until the child is born, ends high school and becomes of age, during the 19 years, there is in practice a detailed plan for that person for every day. It's curves, and it should be measured. These are development plans, and there are different social codes you learn. You go to school and you get grades, and they're class trips and study trips. It's health checks and follow-ups and so on. When we come out at the other end of 18, 19 years old, we will have the tools with us to navigate society, think critically and build a future here. It is clear that for a person who has not gone through the whole journey but comes to Sweden at the age of 19 – or 17 or 25 or 15 – the journey becomes much more difficult. We are aware of that. We realise that in the integration process – which is also the result of Sweden being a country in a global economy and not an isolated island, is an EU member and cooperates with other countries and so on – there will be a series of clashes and some complications that we have to try to deal with in different ways. Then what they say is, close the borders and throw the key into the Baltic Sea! They want to close the door and hope that the outside world does not intrude. It is in the long run quite difficult. At the other end, there are those who say, this is unproblematic-- let everyone come, and everything will work out! It's just as problematic. We in the Liberals, Mr President, have seen in the autumn that it is necessary for us to take action and take decisions which, based on our ideology, we find worrying and tough. But we realise that it has been necessary for Sweden to do so. For example, we have put up with ID controls and other things so that we can have a situation that works, where the people who have come to Sweden – and there are very many – will get a fair chance to get into our country, find a job, get an education and so on. On the other hand, Mr President, we are concerned about the legislative proposals coming to Parliament soon. These include moving from what was agreed in the migration agreement last autumn, namely three-year temporary residence permits as a rule, to the residence permits of a particular group – basically only people from Syria – being one-year. Then the time of establishment will be very difficult. Then people should learn Swedish and be ready for the labour market in just one year. Then that plan must be drawn up and some other things. This means that people sit on accommodations for long waiting periods, perhaps over a year. Then they learn that they are allowed to stay for a year, but the efforts to get them into society are only three to four five months long. And then they may get a decision that they may remain in Sweden. It hacks up the possibilities for us to give people a fair chance to get into Sweden. From the Liberal side, we are very critical of this. We have put in place restrictive measures, but we believe that the latest government proposal is ill-considered. It is not just us in the Liberals who think so. It's all consultation bodies. It is not just one, two or three; it is 22 referrals that all saw this proposal from the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Mr President, I would like to The second thing that is important to mention when it comes to integration policy is that in the system that we have built up in terms of establishment efforts, construction housing and the Migration Agency's system for approving and examining applications and other things, migration and integration are linked. These are related issues. That system is not adapted to bring as many people as it has come over the past year. This means that the processing times will be longer and that people will have to wait longer for a decision if they can stay in Sweden. Then we, as politicians, need to think about: can we reduce the length of proceedings? There is the agreement in the Migration Agreement from the government parties and alliance parties last autumn that this should be investigated to see how the processing times can be shortened. On the part of our party, we have proposed further measures for this. This means, among other things, that you should be able to have faster procedures in those contexts where we know with great certainty that a person can stay in Sweden. It should then be possible to speed up the procedure by written procedure and other things. Similarly, we know that people come from countries where the rate of violence is very high – almost 100% from some countries in the Western Balkans, for example. Then one should be able to look at whether there is a need for a special leave to appeal, for example. When you know that it is leaning towards approval, it should be possible to go faster. When you know that it is leaning towards rejection, you should be able to make decisions more quickly. Otherwise, we have a situation where tens of thousands of people are sitting out in construction homes in Sweden and do not have much to do. Establishment efforts are not so early in the process and not so much integration efforts. Perhaps the church will be there sometime, and some local football club will be there. There are some leisure activities arranged quite sporadic. It is above all very varied between different parts of Sweden and different accommodations. It's very different. Mr President, I would like to It is important for our party in the integration process that the processing times can be shortened. The alternative is to keep people for almost two years waiting for a residence permit. It breaks people down to sit and wait for maybe one or two years and not know what tomorrow looks like and whether they will reunite with their children and not know if they can stay, and so on. It is not worthy of Sweden. We in our country have made the decision that we should be an open country and help many people fleeing and many people as immigrants. There has been a broad consensus in the Riksdag to do so. Then we, too, in here and all of us politicians in Swedish politics, have a responsibility to ensure that the people who come to our country, and who our authorities decide that they can stay, live and live here, have a future here and reasonable opportunities to enter our country. Mr President, I would like to I would like to refer to a third area. I would also like to take the opportunity – which I think I forgot – to support the Liberals' reservation 4 under paragraph 1 and the alliance-wide reservation on entry-level jobs and Komvux. Mr President, I would like to The crucial question, of course, is that people have a job and a livelihood of their own. Here, too, we must ask ourselves how well Sweden is equipped and adapted so that very many people who will be able to enter our labour market and get a job to go to. We have proposed from our party and also from other alliance parties how to lower the thresholds into the labour market. We have proposed a model for a new form of employment that we call a start-up job. The Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have other variants of this. Common to all alliance parties is that we want to lower the thresholds into the labour market so that more people get a chance to enter, get a job, be involved and grow with it. We are very concerned if we get a contractual movement with almost 500 agreements to be concluded with very high entry wages. It will make it more difficult for many people who come to our country to enter. Nor is it something that only our party criticises. Those who have criticised the Swedish starting salaries and the problem of employment because they are so high are also IMF, Konjunkturinstitutet, Finanspolitik Council, European Commission and OECD. It is a very broad view that if you have too high entry wages, it will be difficult for new arrivals to enter the labour market. We hope, of course, that the social partners will take this into account during the bargaining process. It is very important for our country because there are so many agreements that are concluded. Now the Landsorganisation has no joint coordination in this. Nevertheless, we assume that there are responsible actors on the trade union side. It has always existed before, and there has to be this time too.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-360	Mr President, I would like to It is quite interesting that there are some contradictions in the reasoning. At the middle and at the end of the speech, we could hear that the people we decide on should stay in our country must be given good opportunities to establish themselves by enabling them in principle to establish themselves before the decision is made. That's a little bit of the reasoning. They come into the process too late, because they are waiting for the news. But somewhere there is the possibility that there will be rejection in the decision-making process. It may not be entirely unreasonable to wait with at least some bets before then. Then it says everyone free to try to study on their own. It is not entirely impossible when you get to a country that you know which country you come to. This is particularly true with today's technology, where we know that much is available. What I reacted to in particular was that at the outset it was said that it is immigration-friendly and emigration-friendly. People should be allowed to choose in which country and in which society they want to live. Of course, it can be heartwarming. I have often pointed out that there would be no major problems if immigration and migration all over the world looked like it was people who chose which society they like best in and where they think they have the best conditions to build themselves the life they want to live. The problem is that it is not for that reason that people move in large streams. It is from natural disasters and wars to the fact that we have extreme global welfare gaps. I don't really see how you can talk about a choice in the sense that people go to a particular country. Rather, people may feel compelled or that it is their only way out. In what way, then, do they have the potential to enter a society they do not even want to be in?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-367	Mr President, I would like to I don't know which end to start. If the Swedish Democrats believe that people do not choose to move to another country but that they are forced to, then it is even more urgent for people to stay. Isn't it? Or do the Swedish Democrats think it's okay if you move voluntarily but not okay if you are forced? So you're still going to be in the natural disaster? Is that the alternative of the Swedish Democrats? The reasonable logic of this is that if people cannot live in a certain place, they must be given the opportunity to live elsewhere. That doesn't mean that all people come to Sweden, and that can't mean it. Our country can't do that. My speech is about us being an open country and helping people who come. But we will never be able to carry the problems of the whole world on our shoulders. Everyone knows that. Nor is anyone asking us to cope with all the misery and tragedy of the world. No matter what, our starting point as a liberal party is that the individual should have as much power as possible over how to live his life. Mr President, I would like to The second question is a little strange. It is about efforts during the waiting period. If people come to Sweden and apply for protection here, they stay for a month or two, and then get a decision on rejection, it is clear that we have not put in any major integration efforts during that time. But this is true if people stay for a year and a half out on a day-reimbursement accommodation with very little activity, employment, and so on. I think you can imagine it yourself. After a while you become quite passive. If people come from areas where conflicts and other things continue to be messy, the whole family may not have gathered together and are worried about where relatives are, such a process can of course be extremely tough. It breaks people down. I can answer more in the next line.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-372	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely why I advocate my policy. It aims to ensure that people can be protected as early as possible. Further migration to a society where they may be permanently settled takes place under regulated forms through extended resettlement systems and so on. They know in advance and have the opportunity to choose which country they think they can belong to. That country also has the opportunity to set the conditions for a life in that country. The problem here is the point of departure that, as was said in the speech, we help people in distress who come from vulnerable situations by crossing half the earth and living permanently here from the beginning. The people we are talking about when it comes to this challenge, this problem or whatever you want to call it, do not come here on the basis that they want to live in Sweden and that it should be the home country. There are other factors that have driven these people to leave their home country, where they might prefer to be. They haven't really had the opportunity to choose where to build their life in the best way, if they can't live there. If you do not see the problem of people coming to a society without a real desire to live there, it will be extremely difficult to create a common society. Then you lift the whole sense of home from people's lives. For me, it is extremely important that I feel at home here, that I have the life I want to live and that I am not just someone that one balls around between different labor efforts or sees as a factor in a soulless society where we only produce and hopefully may be able to support ourselves but actually do not belong in society. What do you want to do for people to have a sense of home?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-378	Mr President, I would like to It's not like we're picking up people from all over the world. The only people we bring to Sweden are quota refugees from the camps in the immediate vicinity of the Syrian war in neighbouring countries. It is possible that the Swedish Democrats are against it. I am not, but I wish we could increase our quota. So far, Sweden is a rule of law. This means that according to our legislation we are examining applications from people who come to Sweden and apply for asylum here. We have to do that. You can't just think about it. This means that when people come here, we have to test their applications. When we examine the applications, people have to wait during the processing period. What I argued for in my speech, Mr President, was that if that waiting period is one and a half years, some efforts must be made in the meantime, for example giving people the opportunity to read Swedish. The main objection of the Swedish democrats to this seems to be that they do not want to make any special efforts during the waiting period. But a lot of the people who are waiting will get approval, and the risk is that when they then come out and get their establishment will have been broken down and passiveized for a year and a half. It is better that we try to invest in people so that they can enter our country and feel the sense of home that Paula Bieler is arguing for?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-382	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 from the Christian Democrats and reservation 6, which is in common with the Alliance. In the last six months, Mr President, the refugee crisis has been the focus of attention in Sweden but also in the EU. Yesterday it was five years since the start of the war in Syria. No one could imagine it would last for years. The war in Syria has had a major impact on the flow of refugees: 4.7 million Syrian refugees have applied for asylum in the region. 6.5 million are refugees within Syria, and a total of 13 1⁄2 million inside Syria are in need of humanitarian intervention. Four million of them are in areas that are extremely difficult to reach. All of this is according to UNHCR statistics. We have received reports that there is a shortage of matransones in the United Nations refugee camp. UNHCR says that 90% of Syrians in exile live below the poverty line. Few have had the opportunity to obtain work permits in neighbouring countries and therefore cannot create their own income. Now a major effort is needed to give these people a hope for the future. Mr President, I would like to It is not only Syria that people are forced to flee, but many countries around our world. War, conflict and cover-up mean that people in re n desperation cross the Mediterranean to get a new life, see a light, get school to their children and be able to support themselves a and their family you. It is in this difficult position that we are now in. We must try to find opportunities for everyone who comes to Sweden. Last year there were over 160 000 people. A functioning integration policy is therefore required in Sweden. The starting point for the Christian Democrats' integration policy is to give people the opportunity to take responsibility for their own lives, as those who come here also want. Those who come to Sweden as refugees or labour immigrants should be given the opportunity to enter society in different ways. The state will provide support in the process and support the integration of everyone who comes here. But we should not deprive the individual of responsibility for his or her own livelihood. Among those who come to Sweden as asylum seekers are people with very different educational backgrounds. There may be highly specialised doctors, but there are also illiterate ones. Various efforts are needed here. Once you have received your residence permit, which takes more and more time as many people have come at the same time, you are flown out into the municipalities and to the Public Employment Service, which is given a large and important task to try to get people into self-sufficiency. What we call the start-up phase is about two years. Various studies have shown that after the start-up phase only 5% have self-sufficiency. It is, of course, a failure; something else cannot be said. If you first have the entire process of obtaining a residence permit and then have two years in the start-up phase, you will soon be up to four years when a person has not entered regular work. The time to enter the labour market must, of course, be reduced. The overall conclusion of the Swedish National Audit Office, which we are discussing in the report, is that the state's efforts are not sufficiently effective and that change is needed in both the area of integration and other related policies. This applies especially to the housing situation, which is precarious. Mr President, I would like to Today we have large differences in employment and unemployment rates across the country between natives and foreign-borns. We have great obstacles to getting a job for many with a low level of education. Those with low levels of education feel that they have high thresholds in. Entry wages are too high, and this means that many employers do not feel able to afford someone who cannot perform at the top from the start. Among those who do not have upper secondary school education, it turns out if you look at the statistics that unemployment after 15 years in Sweden is 30%. We must do something about this, Mr President. As the Swedish National Audit Office notes, the start-up phase, for which the Public Employment Service is responsible, must be made more personalised, and a high quality service offering must be created that takes advantage of the skills of newcomers and equips them for the labour market. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, there must also be more focus on women's establishment, which is lagging behind. That is something that Christian Democrats want to change. We believe, for example, that it may be related to the fact that many women take responsibility for their homes and children. They may refrain from attending language education because it cannot be combined with parental leave. Here we propose that support be provided for childcare and child care during the period of participation in the SFI class. No one should have to give up SFI because of children. Mr President, I would like to We also believe that there is a need for reform of the Employment Service. In Svenska Dagbladet today it says that confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen has never been lower among employers. I find that a very boring development. The Social Democrats usually say that the Public Employment Service is in progress, has a lot of changes and so on, but unfortunately so far there is a lot of negative feedback for the Public Employment Service. That's where we have to find alternatives. I think there are a lot of other actors who can do things that the Public Employment Service is doing today. There should still be someone who takes authority decisions and does follow-up of work mediation activities. But it doesn't have to be the Arbetsförmedlingen. Yesterday I visited Radic in Lund. It is a complementary company that collects new arrivals via the Employment Service. They introduce new arrivals to Swedish working life and to further studies. They equip the person individually, acquire internships and organise sfi-teaching with a focus on professional Swedish. It even organises cycling courses. Since it is necessary in the home service in Lund to cycle between the elderly, it is important to equip the participant in the programme also in order to be able to cycle, because not everyone can when they come to Sweden. Individually, you look at what the person needs to be equipped with in order to establish himself or herself in the labour market. This means that this type of complementary operator is needed in a good way. We k ristdem okrats also support what the National Audit Office proposes about more places in Komvux, that you can supplement your studies. It's something we're running with the Alliance. The Swedish National Audit Office also proposes to investigate the possibility of involving the country's municipalities as suppliers in the establishment assignment. This is an important issue that we should continue to raise. Last week, I visited the municipality of Nacka. They work extremely aggressively and creatively to solve the needs of the individual. That's where everyone who wants to study komvux gets. It is up to you to decide if you need a komvux place. If you need it, you can apply, and the only thing the municipality does is follow up that what you offer leads to work and that the supplier of komvux has a good program. It's minimal. We're reducing the regulatory burden. We need to get away from doing everything in public. What the public should do is procure, review and follow up. That is also why the Christian Democrats have proposed a new form of employment that does not require any government decision at all. A newcomer who has not found a job can apply for an introductory position where you learn your job at work. You get a salary equal to 75 per cent of the collective salary, and 25 per cent is work. Many employers say: You lack experience, and you lack the Swedish language. Then let it be a training period. We believe that the individual would rather start with a lower salary than go on support. Mr President, I would like to In order to be integrated into the Swedish labour market, housing is also needed. Here, too, I think we need simplification. In our integration motion, we propose what we call a homeer, to be able to make more use of people's homes. We do not believe that new housing will be built at such a rapid pace. The municipality of Nacka has already started to apply this. A certain amount of compensation is paid to people who offer housing to new arrivals. We need to find more creative solutions in the residential area. We also want to develop this with social orientation. We want it to take a little longer. We believe that this process is important and that civil society can do much to integrate people into Swedish society. Finally, it is important that we make use of the human capital that comes to Sweden and does not waste the resources that come with everyone who comes to Sweden. We're going to make it easier for you to get into the world of work. But we will also need simpler types of jobs, such as RUT and ROT services, which have usually caught up with the unemployed. I do not believe that the various labour market policies of the government parties will solve the problem of new arrivals. On the contrary, many are locked into countless training and labour market measures that delay entry into the labour market. We need to lower the thresholds into the labour market and create more real jobs. A job of its own gives work community and the opportunity for self-support. That, Mr President, should be the objective of setting up the labour market. In this way, we contribute to effective integration.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-412	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats want to give people who have come to our country the best possible conditions to establish themselves and become part of our society. We who already live in Sweden have the privilege of living in a country that people want or are forced to flee to. We know that it is not easy, and we know that there will be a challenge not least in terms of housing. We know that some will learn the language faster and that others will have to work much more. The Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted several areas of establishment where action is required. Establishment is difficult but definitely not impossible. The starting point for decision-making is that we find broad agreements here in the Riksdag. The Government has proposed strengthening the administrative allocation to the Employment Service's establishment assignment, the rule review for the establishment assignment, fast track with strengthened labour market interventions, early interventions for persons with residence permits in residential buildings, Swedish education in residential housing, validation within the establishment assignment and changes in the rules for establishment remuneration when working within the establishment plan. It is a series of measures which are important and which will play a role. Important agreements have been made across the block border, and this creates better conditions for coping with the situation that we are facing. Yet we all know here that more is needed. When all municipalities assume their responsibilities in receiving the permit, the waiting time for the residence should be somewhat shortened. But the housing issue will take time to resolve. Although housing construction is increasing, construction must take place in both the short and long term to a much greater extent. The important talks now taking place across the block border around housing policy I hope will lead the way and create the conditions for a simpler, better and faster process. Everyone agrees that the time of establishment is far too long. In addition, there are large differences between men and women. There is still a lower proportion of women than men who take part in existing labour market policies. In Sweden, men and women must have equal access to measures. A more structured approach is needed to achieve the gender equality objective. Mr President, I would like to It is possible to describe establishment in different ways. When you read our report or hear proposals and debates here in Parliament, it usually becomes very technical. But it's about people. It is about practical policies that affect and make a big difference in people's everyday lives. Last Friday, I met a woman at a social company. She had not yet managed to get an apartment. So she and her three children shared an apartment with a sister. She worked hard in her Swedish, and Swedish was actually very good, even though she had been in the social company for a short time. She wasn't just dreaming about an apartment. She had a dream about a job. She had experience as a seamstress, and she was good at cooking. She wanted to support herself and her three children. She wanted to start her life for real. Here in the Riksdag there are parties who do not think that this work should pay off, that the salary should not be set because of the work but based on ethnic origin. I am convinced that anyone learning Swedish would be more motivated by a salary to live on than by low wages. Better a low salary than no pay at all, so you can carelessly sum up what some here say. Then let me translate the discussion here in Parliament into the everyday life of Iman, whom the woman I met was called. She should be able to show a future landlord that she has the ability to pay the rent every month. She should be able to go to the store and buy food for herself and her children. She's gonna make sure they have clothes on their body. I think most parents think it's quite reasonable that you can buy jeans and gym pads for your kids. Maybe at some point her kids should be able to hang out with the friend of the bath, maybe go to Subway some afternoon and maybe even go to the movies and see that movie that everyone is talking about in school. To do that, it takes a salary to live on. We don't think about all that, and our kids never had to think about that, if they could come to the bath. But that is precisely the reality in which Iman and her equals live. A salary to live on creates the conditions for starting your own life. It creates the conditions for having a life. Of course, many employers are not prepared to pay full pay to someone who cannot prove that he or she knows Swedish and who has no CV to present. For those who need a longer introduction to the labour market, there are, of course, various forms of subsidies. We talk about that a lot. This subsidy is jointly paid through the tax bill. We Social Democrats think that it is a better model that we pay it together than that we allow those who have the worst conditions to pay from the outset. We don't believe in making people poorer. It is part of the Swedish model that we jointly take responsibility. Iman and others in her situation should have the opportunity to start their lives. There's no need for investigations to come to that conclusion. All it takes is to be able to plus and minus, and it takes us to decide which model we want. We should equip people for the labour market with common resources – we should not allow them to bear their own costs and allow families to become poorer – and actually supplement them with benefits to live on. A while ago, I and representatives from all parties, I think, got a question from the media back home in Skåne: What are you going to do about 13 percent of the shows at some point in 2015 not being able to pay their rent? Neither I nor any representative from any other party replied: Give people lower wages. Arbetsförmedlingen has a large and important role in the establishment process, and we Social Democrats want Arbetsförmedlingen to be a conversion specialist. Development work is currently underway within, but also outside, Arbetsförmedlingen. In Simrishamn, Emma sits at Arbetsförmedlingen together with the head of the school administration, together with the head of the care administration and together with Municipal Commissioner Kalle, and is thinking about how best to hook arm to make an establishment as good as possible together. Questions that need to be asked at both regional and local level are: How many people can be established in the future? How many places can we fix in our community? How many of them do we need to employ in the future to cope with future staff supply? What about the deficiency professions? Private business also needs staff. There it is said that it is a question of raising the issue next time you have a breakfast meeting, and next time and next time. The local discussions that I have been involved in do not focus on problems in the same way that we focus on problems here in Parliament. Locally and regionally, it is more about how to create the best conditions for people to get housing, for the school to work, for people to get to work and for healthcare to be available. In a city like Simrishamn is the most important question of all: How will the people who through the Migration Board have ended up in the municipality get a chance to stay? It is a chance for the municipality to increase its population and turn a negative population curve. You don't want to lose it. Therefore, the issues of establishment in Simrishamn are about talking a lot among themselves. But they are also very much about practical politics. Very much it's all about doing. When I come to Arbetsförmedlingen in Kristianstad, my own municipality of residence, I meet Tina, Annelie and Tomas. If I drive to Bromölla, I'll meet Sofi. There is also a lot of hands on. Kommunal sits down together with the municipal care administration and Arbetsförmedlingen, and they talk intensively about the next fast track. You sew up training courses that match your employer's needs. The question is asked: how should we make sure to replenish staff where they are missing? The list of shortage jobs is quite long. Often there is no one to match when the employer has a need. These answers may be found in the establishment work. But we will need to talk about it more. We will need to discuss how we complement with knowledge and education and how to ensure that there are more effective pathways in adult education. Procurement processes must be done. Questions that are always relevant but that may now get a new boost from the establishment work are: How do we ensure that those who are going to the labour market have a better knowledge of the working environment? It is a question that I have met in many places where I have been visiting. It would be easier for employers to bring in people if they knew that there was a basic knowledge of rules and regulations on safety at work. When people are going to enter work or practice, it is a requirement that is made. These are examples of practical problems that are being discussed out there in reality. The work of the Employment Service is once again caught in the eye. Many of us have faced the frustration you feel and have felt for a very long time. There are many follow-ups and reports. It's the time they needed to meet people. The Government has made sure that the Swedish Public Employment Service's regulatory burdens and returns are reviewed. Then they say to the employment agencies I meet: Finally. We Social Democrats will continue to move towards an employment service that works professionally and puts individuals in focus. As Arbetsförmedlingen's assignments become increasingly clear and more pure, of course, the opportunities for employees at Arbetsförmedlingen to do a really good job increase. Sweden's municipalities and regions must also take a major responsibility for reception and establishment, and the extra effort that meant that at the end of 2015 municipalities and regions had to share 9.8 billion to deal with the current situation was absolutely necessary. At the same time, it is also necessary to improve the system of compensation for municipalities and regions. We Social Democrats will continue to follow the investigation tasked with proposing measures for a coherent system of reception and residence for asylum seekers and new arrivals. That is a very important signal. The efforts made by the government to strengthen the work of non-profit organisations are indeed well-invested money. Rarely, you might say, we get more bang for the money. There are an incredible number of important activities going on throughout our country. Never will I ever stop being impressed by all the non-profit forces that contribute to a better society. Associations around our country are an important engine for successful establishment. People's movements and other civil society make politics work in the true sense of the word. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I support the proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-444	Mr President, I would like to Annelie Karlsson's story about an immigrant family who wants a salary to live on, can afford to eat at Subway sometimes and go to the bathhouse was gripping. It's a lot like my own childhood. I grew up in Social Democratically governed Stockholm and with a Social Democratic government. I could never afford to eat at Subway, and we couldn't afford to go to the bathhouse. Why? Because we were living on welfare. That's what reality looks like. The option for these people is usually not whether or not to enter the fine high-wage market. The alternative is grants. There is no one in this House who has said that the levels of subsidies are so low. No one has said that they want to cut social security contributions one. In other words, no one is in danger of getting worse off than they are today. The only thing they risk is getting a little better off than they do today, compared to living on social security, compared to living on government food vouchers, so to speak. That's the alternative. We can look at the Social Democratic window Malmö – there we have the terrible example. Usually the Left stands here and says they don't want it like they do in the United States. Malmö has a larger proportion of people who live on our equivalent of food stamps, namely social security. They are unable to have an income to pay for basic needs and to feed themselves and wear clothes. It is a larger proportion that lives on social security in Malmö than in the United States. It's terrible. Annelie Karlsson! D u wants to deny them a dignified job.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-447	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I was unclear in my introduction. Hanif Bali! If you heard me say that I thought the alternative was a contribution, I apologize for being unclear. What I was talking about was that when people enter the labour market and do a job, they should have a salary equal to the wages of the rest of the labour market. We Social Democrats do not intend to create their own file for foreign-born people, but we want them to be covered by Swedish collective agreements on exactly the same terms as everyone else on the Swedish labour market. On the other hand, like everyone else in this House, we see the problem when people lack experience and perhaps need to develop their language more. That is when we go in with government subsidies. That is when we jointly pay part of the salary because the employer cannot bear the full cost. We think it is a better model that we share that cost in society together rather than allowing those who already have a low income – or low remuneration, I should say, because they have no income – to go in and have a low salary. The salary should be for people to live on it. When it comes to living on his salary, Mr Bali talks about the extremely high wages today, and I wonder who has them. Are they nurses, carers, hotel and restaurant workers or employees in my business, that is, commercial employees? Feel free to use someone Monday from time to time to visit them and check their high salary levels! I think they'd be happy to tell you about it. People should enter the labour market with a wage to live on, so that they can start their own life and make a living. It is a reasonable entry into the Swedish labour market.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-452	Mr President, I would like to You say you don't think the alternative is social security, Annelie Karlsson, but that's the reality. What you think is the alternative doesn't matter. If people with a little lower productivity are not given access to the labour market, the alternative is a contribution. That's the alternative. None of us here who represent lowering thresholds want to deny anyone all the efforts you are willing to make as well. We have no problem with them; it is clear that we should have education, komvux and language practice. We're gonna have all that, too. But you want to remove a tool. We want all your tools – and add one. But you want to remove one, namely that the one who has a little lower productivity can be in a workplace for a temporary period and increase that productivity there. This is the absurdity, because it is not just about language, etcetera. I have an example concerning food workers, namely butchers. There's a butcher coming in, and he's getting his skills validated. He has been a butcher in his home country, and everything is correct on paper. But when he shows up at the workplace he is unable to slaughter in the chain process, the industrial process, we have in Sweden. Most often it is much smaller, etcetera. These are typical differences. We have high productivity in Sweden; the Social Democrats have struggled with beaks and claws and increased productivity in this country. Then what happens when someone comes from a country with lower productivity? Yeah, it's shut out. What the employer then says is: Let me hire this guy a little cheaper, with a lower entry salary, so that he can learn this in the workplace and then – when he is ready – go up in a higher salary. Why won't you allow this? You are opposed to this because you want a trade union veto against it. Then we know how the union acts– they will say no, blankly no, just as they do today. It is unreasonable to have the model that you and the union should sit and check which courses are okay.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-457	Mr President, I would like to It's interesting when Hanif Bali talks about what we and the union want. We Social Democrats are trying to stay very far from the social partners' mandate. What Hanif Bali and his comrades are now doing, however, is stepping straight in and sidestepping the parties' work. Entrance salaries are set by the parties; they are not set by us in the Riksdag. That is the order we have, and that is the order we should continue to have. I do not understand why an employer would want to hire more if the salary was low than if the salary is according to collective agreements and the state pays part of it. The subsidy means for the employer that he still has a lower cost. Why would the employer want to hire more if it were a lower entry salary than if he were paying the same salary as everyone else he has employees and receiving some back via government subsidies? What is it that would attract the employer to hire more if we reduced wages? There is something I cannot understand even though I have spent hours listening to you and your arguments, Mr Bali. However, I have met quite a few employers, especially before I came to Parliament because I worked as a negotiator at the time. When I've met employers, I've never met a single one who said, "Well, now it's so cheap, so now we're hiring a few more!" .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You have only been hired when you have had a need for employment, and that need for employment would not be a single thing greater because wages were reduced. Instead, employment needs are based on a completely different basis than dumping wages. We do this because people have a salary to live on and can help us set the wheels in motion. We can do this when people can demand and be strong in buying.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-460	Mr President, I would like to Let's have a little more debate, Annelie. Yes, you should be able to live on your salary. That's what we're for. But just as Mr Bali says, we want to move from subsidies to wages, and then the question is just how high the salary should be. What we are proposing is that 75% of a collective agreement's salary should be paid, so we are not saying that we are actually intervening in the way in which the collective agreement is set. Rather, it can actually have a driving effect if you now see that you should be able to have a margin to offer some a slightly lower share of the salary to learn the job at work. However, my question to Annelie Karlsson concerns the Employment Service, which receives quite a lot of criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office in the letter that has come to us. It would need so much renewal there. Arbetsförmedlingen works a lot with measures, measures and measures, and many people get stuck in the measures. Rather, it is delaying entry into the labour market. How do Annelie Karlsson and the Social Democrats view the change in Arbetsförmedlingen? What should you do to reduce the entire action hysteria, or what to say? We Christian Democrats are in favour of continuing to subsidise certain jobs, but the problem is that many people find it so complicated. It's fresh start jobs, entry jobs and youth guarantees. You should know which times apply for wage support, how much support you get, what ages you will get and how long. The Employment Service will review all of this with times, wages and follow-up. There's an incredible amount of administration. That is why I have thought that we need to find another way, and there are introductory positions a part to remove this. Let employers and workers decide for themselves that someone can start on a lower salary while learning the job! Do we have time for the labour market policy measures to be examined and all that administration? Isn't it better to try to simplify?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-465	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I thought Désirée Pethrus and I might be able to get along. Then she further developed her reasoning, and I thought: No, it's probably as usual. I am a little surprised that Désirée Pethrus says that the regulations for the Public Employment Service are too complicated, because when we took over the government, the Public Employment Service asked us: Can you help us in any way so that we can get away from all the regulatory problems? The measures are too many, and they are too complicated. We cannot handle it, and employers can do it even less. That is exactly what the present government has begun to do, namely to try to make it easier for the Public Employment Service to do its job by removing some of the difficulties the bourgeois government was actually involved in introducing. It was there to make sure that these conditions were met. In that respect, I think we could agree. The Employment Service wants nothing more than to ensure that subsidies are more pure and easier to use. We Social Democrats have no ambition of people rolling from action to action and from practice to practice, but we believe that we can make it much more effective by ensuring that people get knowledge and have to try out in the labour market. Then, of course, it will lead to a job. In some way, the bourgeoisie is trying to smudge on us that we think the model of the grant is so good. Had we thought that the grant model was good, we would not have invested so much in education. We want to equip people with skills to step into the labour market and stand strong and ready to do their part. It's about people being able to make a living. So do not scoff at us the role that we want people to live on subsidies! That is exactly what we want to combat with our labour market policy. We equip people for the labour market, and they should have a wage to live on.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-470	Mr President, I would like to What I think I have seen in much of the research and in what we have received from the National Audit Office and from other actors in terms of feedback on labour market policy is that labour market measures often delay entry into the labour market. It is good and well-lawed to try now to simplify and merge different measures – we may agree on that to some extent – but the problem remains, that people remain in different measures. They don't get into the labour market with real jobs. This is the big challenge. I also do not believe that the Employment Service will be able to do this on its own. You are fully involved in action and how to follow up. You will never get away from the follow-up systems. That is why we say that when there are so many new people coming to Sweden, we must ensure that employees and employers take care of this themselves. We cannot afford to wait this long to get people to work. We in the Alliance must of course be self-critical of the start-up phase. It has been looked at how many in the start-up phase, which amounts to two years, have come into work after three months. So 5% has a real job. That is absolutely unacceptable. We must take action. Then the Social Democrats say that they should merge and take some other measures. That is what we are opposed to. We do not believe that it is the solution to take action after action. It delays entry into the labour market. This is where we need to take action. Employment services and labour market policies need to be renewed. Instead, it should be about: Let people get into real jobs right away! That is my criticism of the Social Democrats.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-474	Mr President, I would like to The criticism of the Social Democrats is that it is too long processes. Yes, but we have no other opinion than that people should come to work sooner. We are in complete agreement on that part. That is why we work with the regulations as we do now. What is Désirée Pethrus' solution is to let employers and employees settle and completely set society aside. This cannot be done because we do not have equal partners. In order to settle and conclude agreements, it is necessary for two parties to be on an equal footing. Even the Christian Democrats cannot claim that an employer and a newcomer are equals – a newcomer with poor language skills, poor, short or wrong work experience for what the work requires. Is it to be said that the new arrival is allowed to settle with the employer? It is, of course, necessary to go in and help to ensure that the working conditions of the newcomers are not too bad. New arrivals are covered by Swedish collective agreements with the order, order and pay they entail. Instead, we want to go in with state subsidies. It must be a model that ensures that there will be order on the Swedish labour market for that group too. Why should we in Sweden leave a group there? These are supposed to be the nicest conditions and our model that we are proud of and that the whole world is watching. But now come the new people to us. So are they to be left behind and not to be covered by this? It is not a policy that the Social Democrats will ever stand for. Those who come to us should have the same conditions as everyone else. Anything else we will never agree on, Désirée Pethrus.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-478	Mr President, I would like to It has been interesting to listen to both Annelie Karlsson's speech and the changes in the lines. I get up on the last thing that was said, that it should be equal conditions for people who come to Sweden. There are many fine words that are heard from the rhetoric of the Social Democrats when they talk about the Swedish model. However, the level playing field means that people who today live on support will be allowed to do so tomorrow too. People who are not in the labour market should not be allowed to do so tomorrow either. The major challenge is that people do not enter the labour market today. This applies in particular to people born abroad and also to the long-term unemployed or young people. Then we must make sure that changes are made. We have proposed that the parties themselves agree on entry jobs with lower entry salaries for new arrivals. We match this with lower employers' contributions and lower income tax. It's about having a salary to live on. Today, people live on a start-up allowance of over SEK 6,500. Is that a substitute worth living on? you can ask yourself. You have to get a foot in the labour market and show off. It will provide more money for the individual. We are discussing lower entry wages, not lower wages. It is clear that you want to paint a picture of it. But this is about getting a chance to get into the labour market through their first job. New measures will then be needed. We fully share the view that measures are needed for education, for establishment and for validation and for obtaining more housing, although in some cases we may have slightly different views on that too. But more action is needed. Then it is an important step that there should be an opportunity to get a starting salary or a salary at all. You can also see that few of the people who enter entry or have low pay have it later in life.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-482	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by quoting another show, Pep Persson. He sings: One and one is two. Two and two are four. Wages are low and rents are expensive. Is it supposed to be so hard to believe it's fake math? People should be able to live on their wages. It's pretty simple. That is why your wage reduction proposals are not good for people. We Social Democrats say no. What people do not need above all is a reduction in wages. They need a higher salary in order to get a home, buy food, and put clothes on their bodies. Pay's needed. We have not created wages because we have that social model. It's because people need their wages. That is the basis on which we have the salaries that we have. The entry wages in our contracts are quite low, according to my view. According to the Center Party's way of seeing it, they're obviously high, at least too high. After all, we always have problems with communications regarding the Swedish model, collective agreements and how we should develop them. I don't think we understand it the same way. Collective agreements don't fit in a book. The point of Swedish collective agreements is that they are very flexible and adapted to different industries. The entry salary of a nurse is completely different from the entry salary of a construction worker or a doctor. There is a great deal of difference between different sectors. That is what the parties have built up, and that is the model of lower entry wages for certain jobs and higher for other jobs. That's what you want to break. You want to ruin that model that has worked for so long. I do not understand how you can think that would mean any success for Sweden.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-486	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by mentioning the so-called success in Sweden. We are the worst in Europe in the labour market for new arrivals. The people who are currently outside the labour market do not get into it. Mobility is extremely low in Sweden compared to other countries. The OECD, among other things, points to this. What are we going to change so that we get more people into the labour market? One way is, among other things, lower entry wages or so-called entry jobs, so that people get a chance. It also creates the conditions for new jobs, jobs that today are not profitable to do because the wage level is too high. It gives people a chance to gain an experience, experience a community and get into Swedish society. The majority of major expert authorities – the OECD, the European Commission and so on – point to this. With lower entry wages, we could get more new jobs in Sweden while people get a foothold in the labour market. Often it leads to looking for the next job. After all, it is the first job that is crucial to entering the labour market. When you listen to the Social Democrats in the debate, they say that you should renounce everything that concerns the tasks of the social partners, and especially in terms of wage formation. It is interesting, then, that you yourself make proposals to enter the wage movement for teachers. I would like to hear Annelie Karlsson's comment on why it is okay to enter the wage movement and influence it in some industries, but not in others. Why are you opposed to being open to discussing the possibility for people to enter the labour market, more than just education and validation? Education and validation are important, but more proposals are needed. There we have presented a number of proposals related to entry and entry-level work, but also changes to the Employment Service and the matching.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-491	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson has had the opportunity to dust of old bourgeois rhetoric. In the 1930s, as the Prime Minister said in the pulpit, it was the workers who would have lower wages. In the 1960s, it was the women, my mother's generation. Not long ago, it was young people. Now it's new arrivals. The question to which I think Sweden's employees must be given an answer from Fredrik Christensson and other bourgeois representatives is: Who should pay it in the end? Should those who step in with the low wages that you are now proposing always have the low wages, or should they after one, two or three years be equated with the rest of the Swedish labour market? It looks like Fredrik Christensson agrees with the latter – they will eventually be put on an equal footing. Then who's going to pay the difference? Is the healthy money coming from the employer, or is it the collective that should pay it? It's usually the collective that pays. Then it means that someone else will have to stand back until they catch up. The collective pays the wage cuts that you are now proposing. Now, I hope to Gud that there is no majority in this House for your proposals on lower entry wages for a group, but if that is the case, then Sweden's employees should know that they are the ones to pay. Because in the end, we're still supposed to put people on an equal footing in the Swedish labour market, right? Well, I hope so.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-495	Mr President, I would like to It is quite interesting to be the only one who has not locked himself at the labour market angle. It will be very exciting debates to listen to. Certainly, I agree that the low-wage proposal is completely wrong. At the same time, I cannot help but wonder that it is claimed that the number of jobs is in no way affected by their cost. It doesn't make any sense. But that's not why I asked for a line. Like Mr Bali, I reacted to Subway visits and bathing-house visits and, above all, to the statement that the rest of us have not had to think about all that. Well, there are a lot of others who have had to think about it, both with and without foreign background, wherever you draw the line. This is where the great dividing line goes between us from the Swedish Democrats and the other parties. We react very strongly when we hear how only one side's problem is highlighted. It develops specific solutions and believes that many problems can be solved by investing more and more resources in specific solutions, special subsidies and initiatives for those who have just arrived in our country. It highlights their problems, but does not see when the same problems affect even those who already exist here before, whether they have arrived long ago or have a background in Sweden since generations ago. It goes without saying to me that this kind of rhetoric and way of thinking is building contradictions, putting groups against groups and creating divisions and segregation. My question is simply: what do the Social Democrats want to do to ensure that people living in our country, regardless of their background, are seen as part of the same society?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-499	Mr President, I would like to In fact, Paula Bieler would have asked that question to those who want to lower the wages of those who come to our labour market, because they are the ones who want to separate that group. We Social Democrats say that you should be subject to exactly the same conditions. That is why that question falls rather flat. I am opposed to what Paula Bieler said about this with a visit to Subway. When I referred to us in this House, it was about our current situation. Our fees mean that we can visit Subway with anyone we want any day, right? The rhetoric used by Sweden's democrats that they are the very ones who have a reality base is a little provocative for some of us. I haven't always been able to do everything I've ever dreamed of. I was born in a working-class home and grew up in the country under very simple conditions with a working father and a home mom. It is not possible to sneak that on me and say that it is you Swedish democrats who know that there are people who are not well off. I know that, too. I also know that there are many people who are employed part-time in commerce or within municipalities and county councils and who find it difficult to make ends meet. That is precisely why we are creating a labour market policy for all. We will equip everyone with sufficient skills to be able to stand strong in the labour market. You're supposed to have a job to make a living on. It should be full-time, and it should be under conditions that allow you to reconcile parenthood and secular work. This includes everyone, wherever you are born. Labour market policy is for everyone. What we are talking about here today is integration, which is why the picture might be a little angled that way. However, our labour market policy is not aimed at foreign born only. It's aimed at everyone. And there is a real need to review it.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-503	Mr President, I would like to I thank Annelie Karlsson for her reply. It is very good to be aware that the problems are in many different places. I am also absolutely convinced that it has been known before. What I am highlighting is that the image I and many others have had is that there has been no problem at all in taking resources from area by area in our budget and investing in an individual area, namely integration and reception. This has been the case regardless of which government – red or blue – has been in power, and also to an escalating degree. Annelie Karlsson is also talking here about more resources being spent. The letter states that more resources are being made available. If we talk about the reception of the municipalities, we say that the state is investing more resources. But it ignores the problems of the lack of housing, the lumping of people together and the fact that we have huge and ever-growing gaps in our country. As long as more resources are invested in this area, everything will somehow work out, you think. What I am asking for and lacking in politics is what you want to do to ensure that actual meetings take place between those who come to our country to become part of our country and society and those who are already part of our society. I'm not talking about the labour market. I'm talking about society at large. I'm talking about how everyone who lives permanently in Sweden and wants to be or hopefully already is Swedish citizens should also be able to feel and say that they are obviously part of Sweden, that Sweden is their home country, that Sweden is in their heart and that they are part of society – feel it together with everyone else in the same category. What do you want to do about real human meetings and human relations?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-506	Mr President, I would like to I believe, unlike Paula Bieler, that the investments we make in people are good investments that we will benefit greatly from in the future. We invest and invest money to make people a part of our Swedish society by equipping them with knowledge to enter the labour market. When you enter the labour market, you get the conditions to sign your rental contract and start your own life. I really believe that it is well-invested money, and I can see no alternative to equipping people to stand strong in society and contribute. We have said this in this House before. We need about half a million welfare workers for the next ten years in our country. These are the people we are arming now so that they can become part of the workforce that we need around the country. Meetings between people are necessary, and there is a real shortage of such meetings. We are seeing an increase in xenophobia and conflict between people. But around the country 70 000 – 75 000 people participate in Swedish education for people who come to our country through the study associations. They talk about society and how society works. These are important meetings that can help those who come to us to understand how everything is connected. The other week I was in a place where people talked about visible and invisible rules, which rules are not written. Of course, meetings between people are needed. But I think that both Paula Bieler and we in other parties should think a little about how we ourselves contribute to better cohesion in Sweden, how we close the gaps, not only economically but also between people. More love and less hate!
i-336a8f2a2695e265-508	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the draft decision to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Today we are talking about the state's efforts towards the establishment of new arrivals. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which forms the basis for today's debate, highlights that the state's efforts for the establishment of new arrivals were not sufficient. The report highlights, among other things, problems with housing shortages, long processing times and untapped knowledge resources. Our Europe has changed since the Swedish National Audit Office submitted its report last June. Since then, the Government has begun extensive development work for sustainable reception throughout the country and has begun efforts to enable people to be established more quickly in Swedish working and social life. In this work, the Government has taken into account the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations and also some of the ideas proposed in the motions. Mr President, I would like to The government's focus is to create more jobs, reduce gaps and increase cohesion in Sweden. The government sees the challenges that exist and has started serious work to reform Sweden's establishment policy and thereby improve reception. In 2015, the Government already allocated SEK 11 billion to municipalities and county councils as a targeted support to work with refugee reception. The inefficient start-ups have been abolished. All municipalities will now, according to their ability, receive refugees. And various forms of individual establishment are now being implemented. Mr President, I would like to So-called fast track has already been introduced in a number of deficiency professions. Fast track means that the new arrivals will receive a programme containing Swedish education, validation and labour market interventions tailored to professional competence. The government has already introduced fast track for a variety of professions such as doctors, nurses, chefs and teachers, and more fast track is underway. Two weeks ago, the Green Party proposed that we look at the possibilities of fast track for self-employed workers. Many of our new arrivals have experience in running companies from their home countries. If we can take advantage of this knowledge and make it easier for them to run businesses here too, it will create new jobs. In addition, civil society, whose efforts during the strained autumn and continued to be of crucial importance for the reception of refugees and the establishment process, has received increased funding. Mr President, I would like to We are a small country, and we feel good growing together with our world around us. Transparency is a prerequisite for development. Countries that join the rest of the world are stagnating. The rapidly growing population as a result of the increase in immigration is a welcome change that can contribute to a growing and dynamic economy if the potential is exploited, especially in view of Sweden's demographic development. I am pleased that the majority of the parties here in Sweden are solution-oriented and see these opportunities instead of turning inward, as many other countries in Europe are doing right now, and continue to stand up for the country that welcomed me when I fled here as a 22-year-old from Chile. I believe that the history of the future will judge today's Europe very harshly. Mr President, I would like to We must be able to respond to and receive people with dignity. We were not equipped enough to take on the challenge it meant that a lot of people on the run came to Sweden last autumn. We now need to move quickly so that we do not face the same situation again. We must present concrete proposals and constructive solutions to the challenges ahead so that a temporary law can be even more temporary, because I do not want to see the country that once welcomed me become part of Europe's hidden wall building. I don't want to see fear take over. I do not want us to turn a blind eye to the humanitarian disaster that is going on.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-523	Mr President, I would like to I'll be pretty brief. I reacted to the wording that municipalities should now receive according to their ability. In my world it means taking into account that there may be a ceiling on the ability, that you receive as many as you actually have the ability to welcome into the building of society. At the same time, this refers back to a proposal that has not even, and very deliberately not even, taken into account the housing situation. My question is simply: what does one want to do to ensure that it should actually be the ability to receive which governs reception and not a distribution key determined from above and a reception of a size that we cannot regulate?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-526	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that this is something that will be decided from above, but it will really be based on the ability of the municipalities. There are several municipalities in the country that have already said that they can accept a number of refugees, because they have capacity in terms of housing, jobs and study places. I think it is very important not to see this as a straitjacket for municipalities, but that it can be a great opportunity for many municipalities to be able to bring in new residents. I am thinking in particular of the municipalities that are depopulated because many people want to move to large cities to read on or seek another opportunity.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-528	Mr President, I would like to It would be great, or at least much better, if it was really the municipalities' ability to accept who ruled, if the municipalities themselves had to report how many they have room for and whether it was the labour market, the housing market, schools, day care centres and all that it was about that governed. But the fact is, it's not. In fact, just a few weeks ago, we passed legislation that will enable municipalities to be forced to receive and be able to refer people to municipalities. The reason was that it had been realised that Sweden's reception is far too large. The places for those that municipalities themselves consider to be capable of receiving are not enough. One could then react as I and my party do, and as has been done in some countries, and somehow solve it temporarily for those who are here but do not try to force them out into society, for it only slows reception and creates contradictions and more problems. We want to let the actual reception continue to be governed by a real ability to bring people into society. Or you can do what everyone else in this House thought and create new laws that force municipalities to accept more than they think they can without the possibility of appeal. I did not get an answer to my question: What do you want to do to ensure that it is the ability that governs? The Green Party also believes that we should increase reception again as soon as possible. You are saying that we must create the conditions for this. But before you have even presented any such conditions, you are saying that we need to go up to high levels of reception again – at the same time as we have a large and growing alienation. How can you guarantee that it is actual ability and willingness to be able to receive people who govern the welcome in Sweden?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-534	Mr President, I would like to Paula Bieler and the Swedish Democrats should be happy that the law allows all municipalities to receive refugees. It counteracts exactly what Paula Bieler says about segregation being the worst thing that can happen. When all municipalities receive refugees, it becomes much easier for people to integrate into the small and large communities they come into.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-535	Mr President, I would like to Contrary to what one might think when one has listened to the debates during the day, Sweden was not actually built on low wages and poor conditions. Sweden was built through investments in both society and the people in it. We did this as a conscious social project with joint investments that favoured the future, built roads and railways, built up schools, healthcare for all and a security system that left no one left alone. At the same time, Sweden has had a large reception of refugees, also historically. Enemy from Finland, Jews from Europe and refugees from the dictatorship of Chile or the Balkans of war are part of Sweden. The success factor is that we have invested in both society and the people who have come. Well-being building and the reception of refugees have gone hand in hand. It needs to do so even today. As one of the richest and safest countries in the world, Sweden has every opportunity to welcome the people who come here. Mr President, I would like to The government's response to the fact that historically many people sought protection in Sweden in 2015 is closed borders, less chance of staying, insecurity and fragmented families. It should discourage refugees from coming to Sweden. Demanding breathing space in a situation where people are taking their last breaths in the Mediterranean at this moment is cynical and brutal. Besides, it's, frankly, naive. I don't lose patience very often, but today is such a day. I don't want to hear another word about cut wages from rich people whose buddies are hiding tax money. I do not want to hear another word about integration while the government wants to introduce TUT and divide families. I do not want to hear a word about protecting systems rather than protecting people, when the systems exist for them. I don't want to hear another word about breathing space while people on the run take their last breaths. In reality, no fences in the world can stop the escape. Only peace and justice can do that. Until then, however, it is our damn duty to give people protection and move more countries to do so. How well it will go is just a question of whether we are prepared to invest in building society bigger and investing in the people who live in it, no matter where they were born. The right to protection and a well-being to trust is the key. To want to make Sweden a worse and insecure country should, to be honest, be a rather difficult-sold political vision. Yet it is precisely the sad and sad vision that the government now seems to market. The proposals on temporary residence permits as a general rule and the absence of family immigration will create the exact opposite of integration. It seems to me that all the referral bodies are in agreement on that. Uncertainty has never been a good foundation for building the future. But it is precisely insecurity for the future, broken families, vulnerability and dependence on employers to stay as the government offers people who come to Sweden to seek protection. It is doubtful whether the proposal is even compatible with the European Convention on the right to family life. In addition to the obvious suffering, the proposals run the risk of leading to less establishment, less integration, less health and less use of people's skills and society's resources. The most important political proposal to improve integration anyone can make today is to get the government to put the proposals on temporary residence permits and conscious fragmentation of families in the trash. The bourgeois parties, for their part, take the opportunity to use the refugees as a battering ram for their old common demands for lower wages and conditions. It's not a surprise. First there were the workers, then the women, then the young and now the refugees. Ordinary people should be squeezed while tax evasions should get away with it. Mr President, I would like to There's another way. Instead, we should be proud of the security and future that Sweden offers and develop and improve it. The Left Party sees the challenge of many people coming to Sweden at the same time. We also see that eight years of bourgeois power have created great rifts in welfare. People are needed, and investment is needed to build Sweden bigger with more housing and better school and care. It's also a job initiative. In the budget negotiations, the Left Party requires 10 billion to give social workers, teachers and nurses in municipalities and county councils more colleagues. Bourgeois did not just leave a weakened welfare behind. They also left a society vulnerable to crises. In some places the reception system was very strained during the autumn, both because the reception is unequally distributed in the country and because it is quite rigid. It is this, Mr President, that the government chooses to call systemic collapse and then closes the borders of people on the run and proposes insecurity and family fragmentation for those who still manage to get here. It's putting systems in front of people. Municipalities, authorities and volunteers point to red tape that prevents them from doing important work. You get stuck in piles of paper. It doesn't make any sense. Systems exist for people, not the other way around. For example, the Left Party proposes regulatory simplifications to allow social security officers time to work with children in need of support. We suggest that the Migration Agency should avoid stamping forms for winter clothing, which every person understands is needed, when you need to spend their time on processing applications. We have a battery of suggestions to create a good reception of people on the run. A large part of what is needed to build Sweden bigger and stronger are efforts that lie in completely different areas than integration. It is about housing, the labour market, education and welfare. Some other important steps have already been agreed with the government in previous budget negotiations in the Left Party. We will come back to other things in the future. Nevertheless, I would like to mention some of the concrete things that would make a real difference here and now if you are serious about creating better conditions for people to become part of Sweden and our common future. Firstly, we need more accommodations in the reception system. The housing situation is strained, and asylum accommodation does not always meet the requirements. We propose faster construction by investing in prefabricated housing and better utilisation of existing premises. Through greater government and municipal responsibility for reception, we would make ourselves independent of Frasse Fixers-types, i.e. private fortune seekers who appear everywhere. This means that safety and security can be better catered for in the housing sector and help municipalities to plan. Secondly, we need faster training efforts. Education to get into work or complement competence is crucial for establishment, although it does not sound like that when you listen to the bourgeoisie. Therefore, we want to develop the validation of foreign degrees, strengthen study guidance in native language and mother tongue teaching and increase opportunities for Swedish education from day one. In order to do so, we need to ensure that new arrivals' knowledge is better used in both study guidance and mother tongue teaching. Thirdly, we need to speed up the road to work. The Left Party wants to develop Arbetsförmedlingen so that there is time and resources to suit the individual. We want to give Arbetsförmedlingen increased responsibility for the validation of professional knowledge, reintroduce requirements for employers to provide information to Arbetsförmedlingen, enable driving licence studies with CSN support and appoint a national coordinator to recruit to the shortage professions. Fourthly, more people will be able to help. Everywhere in the country there are people who want to help and stand ready to do so. Therefore, we also want to give folk high schools the opportunity to perform language introductions and offer study circles in Swedish from day one. We want to create housing agencies where both private and public actors can offer accommodation spaces. We want to create a more flexible regulatory framework for rental and provide support to the local community for activities that strengthen cohesion. Investing in welfare and developing our social systems is investing in the future. It's not naively pretending that the world is going to be another. We have the needs, and we have the resources to invest. Together with those who are now coming, we can actually build Sweden much bigger and stronger. We've done it before. Let's do it again.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-564	Mr President, I would like to We have now listened for a number of hours to an up-to-date debate on how to improve reception to Sweden and a debate on integration. One thing that has spoken during these hours is that a promise has been broken. It must be one of the promises that have been made in the shortest time in Swedish political history, because when I had breakfast this morning I heard Anna Kinberg Batra say on the radio that the Alliance does not want to lower wages. Now we have been able to hear for several hours how the Alliance uses reduced wages as its only political tool in the integration debate. In this recent debate, on AU6, we have heard how the Conservative spokesperson Hanif Bali has argued for this and against the so-called high wages in the labour market. I think it is extremely important, Mr President, that it is recorded that Anna Kinberg Batra's promises to the voters were not even enough one day.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-568	Mr President, I would like to Today in the morning, I took a short walk around the parliament quarter and found that the water down towards Strömmen was closed and the dam hatch was up. I quietly wondered who was responsible for regulating that hatch. Then I realized that the question was misplaced. Of course, it is not who but what controls the hatch to ask. It is probably about electricity in conjunction with mechanics and both hardware and software. Mr President, I would like to I choose this example to show that Sweden in just one generation has become a surfing, tweeting and swishing society completely dependent on digital technology. A long period of security policy detour and the fact that the Swedish people have survived both large-scale terrorist attacks and natural disasters for a long time have led to an overall decrease in crisis awareness. We are also, as people today, less prepared for the accident. At the same time, it should be pointed out that there are exceptions. There is a popular movement in our country that consists of so-called preppers. They have made it a lifestyle to prepare for crises of almost doom. It is a movement that originates in the United States. Anyone who wants to dive into the world of prepping can benefit from reading Lars Wilderängs Stjärnklare, which is a dystopian novel about what happens when our technology stops working. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Defence has taken the initiative in drawing up a brochure entitled If the crisis or war comes. This initiative was taken more than a year ago and thus almost a year before the army commander Major General Anders Brännström boldly and meritably stated that Sweden may be at war in the space of a few years. The intention, Mr President, with the committee's initiative was to inspire the authorities and municipalities to remind all the inhabitants of our country that they as individuals have a responsibility for themselves and for their closest relatives. Mr President, I would like to We should all make sure that food canned goods are kept at home. We all need to ensure that there are water canisters and batteries for flashlights and radios. We need first aid kits, and some of us need to store medicines. We need kerosene kitchens for cooking hot food. We need tea lights and much more. Mr President, I would like to We all remember the forest fire in Västmanland in 2014. It prompted the then government to set up an investigation. It was the Council of Appeal Aud Sjökvist who was commissioned to look at how well the Swedish emergency preparedness at this time worked. However, the new government took the initiative to shorten Aud Sjökvist's investigation. Instead of a year, the investigator was given only six months, and the investigation work was to be taken over by MSB. This was questionable, Mr President, given that, as an actor, MSB was also involved in crisis management in Västmanland itself. Therefore, we in the Alliance think it is important that we now highlight the conclusions reached by Aud Sjökvist in the investigation. That is why we would like to call for the approval of reservation 9. I notice that time has run, Mr President, and I will try to round off. This weekend Chief Commander Micael Bydén stated that the Swedish Armed Forces will be attacked and stand alone, intending to fight to the last soldier. One might think that such a statement is not entirely relevant when it comes to the strategic military level, but one thing is certain, and that is that if the defence is to have the opportunity to fight to the last one it will require the support of a new, rebuilt civil defence. I think I know that in the debate that is now before us, many parties will show commitment to the issue of civil defence. Finally, let me remind you that almost no authorities in this country are prepared to carry out extra work without any funding. The harsh truth is that last year's defense arrangement did not contain a single crown for civil defense. We must change that, of course.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-580	Mr President, I would like to As safe as we are and feel, there is really nothing we can do to prevent crisis and war completely. Even if we in Sweden have been spared from war for 200 years, there will be a day when we return to war. Let us hope it will be many years before then. Crisises are also something from which we have been relatively spared, although we have had several major disasters in the last 30 years. The sinking of the Estonia ferry in 1994 and the Tsunami disaster ten years later, in 2004, in Thailand, are painful memories of how disasters can break life completely in a brief moment for multitudes of people. It is a clear reminder of how vulnerable we are and how sunshine can be changed very quickly to total darkness. That's why it's important work that we all get the attitude, not afraid, but prepared. We must equip ourselves together to withstand both wars and disasters, because the question is not whether they come but when. The report contains two important announcements from the Riksdag to the Government. One is that we should review the conditions for training measures at regional and local level for part-time civil protection fire brigades. A large part of our fire defence is based on an organisation of part-time firefighters – a fire defence based on the loyalty and commitment of all those who live and work near fire stations in the country. It is a fire defence that is based on the fact that you have both your civilian work and that you want to engage and practice in the fire defence during your free time. In order to facilitate that organisation, and to lower the thresholds for those who want to participate, we believe that the location of the training should be easy to reach for the individual taking a fire training course. It must not be an obstacle that, as it is today, there are only two types of education in the country. Training must be where the need for training is, to the greatest extent possible. We must not miss new employees to the part-time fire brigade because we cannot provide local or regional training. We know that in many places in the country there is a need for recruitment, and because people should live and work near the station, the recruitment base is limited. The fact that we have a well-manned, trained and trained part-time fire brigade is an important part of civil defence. The second announcement is that the information effort to the public and the responsibility of the individual during and in the face of a crisis should be made clear, something on which the committee has also initiated and held a public hearing. Since we can never fully protect ourselves from crises and wars, it is ourselves and our ability to deal with crises that are important. How prepared a population is for crises and wars is crucial for the consequences of unforeseen events. In general, we need to increase knowledge of what it means if the crisis or war comes, but we also need to make people more aware of how important it is to take responsibility for being prepared. We cannot believe that society should be able to take care of us. We need to equip ourselves considerably better to take care of ourselves. That is why the first step is that we citizens know that we have to do the first 72 hours without electricity, water and heat. It's important. We can handle a lot ourselves if we prepare – it's about everything from flashlights and dunks to having batteries at home. And it's about not being afraid. It's about being prepared. Our moderate motion to strengthen psychological defense is important. It is about having a population that is well informed and a population that is aware of what psychological warfare means. Only through a broad popular anchoring of what it means with a psychological defense, and a population that notices when foreign powers try false propaganda, can we defend ourselves. We need to better investigate what we need to reinforce in terms of psychological defence in order to have a robust preparedness. Mr President, I would like to Our society today is logistically very well-functioning in terms of the transport and storage of food and other goods. That is a good thing, and it provides short lead times for goods, which reduces both transport and storage costs. So far it is good, but in the event of a crisis or war it means that there are no goods in stock to collect if the transport or the supply of goods ceases to work. How to secure food and the supply of goods to society when we do not have our own stocks are also things you need to look further at. From moderate quarters, we have exercised that we need to review the need for a new total defence – a total defence that also reviews and inventorys all the competences that exist in society. It is about the existence of all the necessary skills and the fact that you do not have the same people in several different positions in the event of a crisis. It is also crucial that the military side can cooperate well with the civilian. How well the different parts work together is often what is crucial in times of crisis and war. MSB has a key role to play here, and we can see from the evaluation of Salabranden that MSB's role needs to be made clearer. MSB also needs to go out more clearly with directives on how municipalities, authorities and NGOs should cooperate and organise themselves in the event of crisis and war. It is often not the resources that are the problem, but how best to coordinate the resources you have that are difficult. Only by using all the resources properly can the major disasters be prevented, as the Salabrand evaluation shows. Coordination of actions is as important as resources. Therefore, all types of exercise are also good. It is only by testing and evaluating that one can develop. Activities must be developed so that we know exactly what to do in the event of crisis and war. Finally, I would like to endorse reservations 9 and 11.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-596	Mr President, I would like to It is of crucial importance, in our opinion, for Swedish democrats, to have a functioning authority, organisation, in order to increase the likelihood that, in the event of a crisis and war, we will have effective crisis management and resources in the right place. Do we have it today? No, we don't. We have MSB. I won't criticize MSB. It is the governance of MSB and the tasks and opportunities you have to operate that I think is wrong. We want to establish a civil defence authority. Corresponding competence is available at MSB and can be lifted into that authority. However, the role of the Authority must be much clearer. There should be not so much pressure on collaboration but on coordination. It must be possible to coordinate between county boards and coordinate activities within the country. That is the great flaw. This is also evident from the Swedish National Audit Office's control of MSB. It points to major shortcomings. I'm not going to read them all out. But it is a consequence of the fact that it is what it is. Who's in charge? Yes, you look and you call and you ask, "What about emergency planning?" What about vulnerability tests? What happens next? It distributes money and grants to projects and activities. The Swedish National Audit Office is looking at this. Why? The money is spent on many other things. No, I think you should shut down MSB in the form it now has and restore a civil defence authority. It should be a clear responsibility. You have to make sure you tie the military defense together with the civilian. Without a good and clear civil defence, we will not be able to use the Swedish Armed Forces either. It's not working. They just work together. The defense committee's defence report assumes that the civil defence can only last for 5-10 days in a conflict situation. It's alarming. In our opinion, Sweden's total defence should be able to manage to defend Sweden persistently over a long period of time – we are talking about months. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals have just spoken about the budget. I fully agree with that. It is very important that you pay attention to this and ensure that you give proper future budgets to civil defence. It's a necessity. Otherwise, it will only decrease more and more. Mr President, I would like to We've written a lot of exercise. I'll mention a few. The Civil Defense Authority is a part of it. Another thing is the part-time firefighters, who are in a very difficult situation. When they are employed outside the emergency services, they may, if necessary, report to serve. Problems have arisen when part-time firefighters lose their primary employment and need compensation from the unemployment fund. There are several examples of this. In that case, they will not receive full unemployment benefits, because they are not considered to be fully available to the labour market. I think we should all agree to correct that. We have also proposed that. The recruitment of firefighters is another area. We have pointed out that the requirements must be high. It is not possible to reduce the requirements with respect to gender or where you come from, abroad or inland. The requirements for a fireman must be sufficiently high. If you have lower requirements, there must be differentiated data. Either you need a certain ability to act fully as a smoke diver, be able to carry heavy and so on, or you don't need it. We are therefore opposed to all such targeted campaigns aimed at recruiting people from minority groups or from a particular sex. You should recruit from all groups, but the requirements should be the same. Then there's another thing that we're pushing pretty hard on. It's the food supply. We have heard here that we are talking about being able to take responsibility for ourselves. Yes, of course we will, for a number of days. However, we believe that food security stocks must also be built up, as they used to be. You're supposed to rebuild this. It's about canned goods to be replaced. In the past, stocks were emptied, as I have said before in this House. It went out to the war units. They ate this for three days. Then they refilled. They had these emergency stocks. It wasn't a big deal. It can be restored and spread. This ensures that there is food for the Swedish population for a long time. With water they did the same thing. Then there's fuel and stuff like that. In rural areas there are often thoughts. But if civil defence is to work, we must have a living countryside. We have therefore written quite a lot about increasing self-sufficiency. How are we gonna do that? Well, we can start by trying to get all the municipalities to buy locally. It'll be more expensive for the municipalities. Yes, but if we want a living countryside, we must ensure that we do the procurement in this way, which is permitted within the framework of the European Union. It is about setting the price level, so that it may have 10 – 15 per cent of the weight instead of 80 – 90 per cent, as it is today. That's when the trucks come. We'll buy the pork fillet for half the price in the stores. It comes from other parts of Europe and is transported here by trucks. The price level is set at 85 - 90 per cent. It's cheaper for the municipality. It's breaking the countryside. Pig farmers are closing. Milk farmers are closing down. Here we can take quite simple steps. It is a matter of conducting a policy where you weigh differently and it becomes more expensive for the municipalities. It's the municipalities that are supposed to do this. But we can support the municipalities in different ways in that work – right, Center Party? Then there's stock. And I'm thinking of schools. It is also part of a holistic approach to civil defence – that we have schools and the living countryside. Yeah, but how do we keep the schools in the countryside? How do we get the bus to go the other way? There are examples of this: good teachers, high wages and a fine environment. What happens then? Then maybe it's not the right catchment area. Then they won't get a bus pass. Then they won't go to the country. There are measures that can be taken. There's lots of things to do. Living countryside has to do with civil defence. We also think that a psychological defence should be set up. There's a big problem. What do we depend on in a psychological defense? Yes, we depend on the press, newspapers and radio. We are therefore very dependent on reporting from a professional category in which the Swedish people have the lowest confidence. Is that a problem? You have the lowest confidence in journalists. The only people who compete with the journalists are politicians. We're going to lead the country together, I was about to say. One group writes. That'll be a problem. We should all think about that. How should we tackle such a psychological defense and such a major psychological problem?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-610	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This is a comprehensive report. It covers many different areas. These are highly topical issues that affect us both nationally, in cooperation with other countries, and out in the country's 290 municipalities on an individual level. I will start by talking a little about civil protection and its importance in order to provide security and long-term conditions for a vibrant and functional service in our areas. A major issue concerns the recruitment of emergency services. It is something that must work as well as possible. There are great challenges here. It must be the case that the basic mission, which is about having the conditions to save lives, to provide security and to exist throughout the country, should be able to work in practice. For us in the Center Party, it is important to work hard to develop firefighter training and ensure that there is competence provision. The ambition is that there should be available trained personnel throughout the country. Today we are seeing a trend in which more and more part-time corps are being shut down. It may be because of different things. This could be about the local labour market. The distance between the workplace and the local rescue station is becoming longer when it comes to intervention time. This makes it difficult to recruit staff available for the operation. This may be due to a change in demographics with increased emigration and a higher average age. It may also be due to political priorities that centralise and make it more inaccessible. In sparsely populated areas, part-time firefighters are the backbone of the rescue forces. Many municipalities have only part-time firemen. Nearly 60 per cent of 11 000 employees in municipal rescue services are part-time employees. The problems of municipalities in recruiting this type of firefighters are particularly great in rural and rural areas. It is often replaced by firefighting. It is based on voluntaryism and gives increased uncertainty if the aid comes when it is needed. It often creates insecurity in the individual. We are concerned about these developments. We believe that it is very important to ensure quality and develop the education and also to work to supply skills. It needs to be teacher-led lessons. It is necessary to ensure that theoretical and practical knowledge is available to adapt to current conditions. Centralising the training of firefighters also contributes to longer routes. This often makes it difficult when it comes to recruitment and getting more people from all over the country to want to be educated and then take up the position. It undermines skills, and it can also undermine engagement. In order to facilitate recruitment and staff supply, we want part-time firefighter training to be located at regional and local level. We want it to ensure the supply of skills, and we will have trained personnel throughout the country. We are pleased that, out of two announcements presented to this House, one is about regionalising education and doing so as locally as possible. The Center proposal and the Alliance motion are extremely important. These issues must be resolved in the long term. Working as a municipal politician today on these issues is about providing and ensuring that there are adequate resources. Not least, the involvement of local political leadership is extremely important. It is in how politics meets the issues that a broad range is created in the municipal organisation. It provides opportunities for collaboration internally in the organization but also together with many others. There are many challenges we face and events that we have to face. Our common focus must be to work as preventively as possible in order to prevent accidents. 2015 was a year when the number of fatal fires increased. That is something we need to analyse. We need to work to prevent it for the future. When we look at civil protection staff, the proportion of full-time women employed in 2014 was 3.8 per cent according to MSB. It is from different perspectives a low figure. Part of our Committee on Defence supports the need to increase the proportion of women in municipal civil protection. This is an extremely important issue. It is about developing contacts between the municipality as an employer and the employees in the organisation in order to find the conditions to improve and develop opportunities for the individual. It is also a question of working towards greater breadth and cultural diversity in municipal civil protection. These are issues that are very close to police activity. We know that a relatively higher proportion would facilitate dialogue with many different groups in the country and also build security. The nature of civil protection is also important for a municipality's opportunities to develop. There are a lot of entrepreneurs and potential settlers watching: Where is the emergency services? How does the suspension period look in practice to be reached by an operation? These are basic municipal issues and issues of public service that we must take very seriously. This is not least important in order to be able to get a vibrant rural area and long-term investments. The investigation after the fire in Västmanland has shown many important perspectives. We should follow that up. We need to work on those recommendations. I'm from Säffle. In Säffle, Byälven runs through the city. It is water that originally comes from Norway that then goes through Arvika and through our municipality out into Lake Vänern. Fifteen years ago we were very much affected by the large water flows. They gave in a lot of raining very big problems in Arvika but also in the Väner area. This is highlighted in today's report. It is about what measures must be taken to prevent and prevent future floods in the watercourses and lakes. As the beaches grow again and with changed regulation, the risk of flooding also increases. Fairways that are no longer used make the water flow less easily. We have seen the practical consequences. A number of so - called centenary rains have now become extremely recurrent in the last period of years. It's testing the systems. This shows how extremely important it is to work with spatial planning. It is about reshaping drain pipes, ducts and reed wells and ensuring that emergency services can intervene locally and help when needed. We have this problem together with many other municipalities. It is a problem that arises locally in many places in Sweden. It can also be about other major extraordinary events that we have to face and manage. Here we have an extremely important responsibility together. I hope that the investigation that has been set up will be able to demonstrate concrete strategies and also highlight what responsibility the state should take to ensure that there is prevention in the affected areas. In order to achieve a stronger overall defence, NGOs are an extremely important resource. That supply must be ensured in the long term. With more committed citizens and working together, our common ability to deal with crises is strengthened. As we resume total defence planning, I assume that it will involve a great many different organisations in Sweden. It will also clarify the objectives of what we are going to achieve together. When we face cyber attacks, propaganda warfare, intelligence and other challenges, there is a lot of work to do in the near future. We must have the vulnerability of the individual in the centre so that we prevent and secure life. Looking at the security situation, we can see that on New Year's Eve Russia took a new approach in its security strategy for the future. It looks very serious. One of the points is that Russia is focusing on increasing its food supply. You work for independence. Sweden is Europe's most export-dependent country. It is about the fact that we have to import more than half of the food we need. Our own livelihoods continue to decline. This is an extremely important issue for our nation. It requires an extremely strong commitment in this House. We also need a strategy to reverse the trend. We need to increase our production in order to reduce our dependence on the outside world in the event of a crisis or cut-off of transport. There are many issues related to this. This is particularly true of the current situation. I hope now that we can have a debate on what we are prepared to do in practice to reverse the trend and reduce vulnerabilities. Mr President, I would like to I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation No 20 and our joint alliance reservation No 9. I would like to conclude by saying that together we have many choices to make in the near future. The more we focus on the issues we are discussing in today's report, the better Sweden is equipped to meet future challenges. This applies to both civilian and total when it comes to Sweden's preparedness.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-638	Mr President, I would like to I shall speak today about the Left Party's view of emergency preparedness in relation to today's report. There has gradually been an increasing distinction between defence and emergency preparedness. When the war was defined away from the threat picture, the old concept of total defence was abandoned about a concerted and centrally planned preparedness for crisis and war. The separation of military defence and civil crisis preparedness was strangely parallel to the fact that issues such as terrorism, cyber security, climate change and natural disasters began to be seen as part of an increasingly broader security policy agenda. The threats became more and more complex, but the Swedish ability to handle them became worse. In connection with the committee's visit last week, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB) highlighted disturbances in electricity and drinking water supply, pharmaceutical supply and food supply as areas where serious events are clearly at risk of affecting society's functionality. To this was added nuclear events that would have major consequences, as the Fukushima events in Japan five years ago have shown. In a situation where data on telephone breaks and power cuts, as well as alarm reports of a severely strained healthcare system, are mere everyday occurrences, we should at least ask whether Sweden's preparedness for major crises and disasters is really good enough. It is simply about our ability to function as a society in everyday life, crisis or war at all. According to the Act, all municipalities and county councils must carry out risk and vulnerability analyses. Through government agencies, municipalities and county councils conducting their own analyses, knowledge is built up at all levels. MSB only regulates the extent to which the authorities should disclose their risk and vulnerability analyses, not the method to be used by the authorities in their analysis work. The special assessment of ability is based on self-assessments, which means that different authorities may have reasoned in different ways when they have made their assessments. The compilations and analyses carried out are therefore based on the content of the accounts of the authorities rather than on comparing the different assessments made by the authorities. A first step is that all risk and vulnerability analyses carried out by municipalities, authorities and others use the same methodology, develop measures other than self-assessment, and these should form the basis for a national risk and vulnerability analysis. Sweden is too small a country not to coordinate and coordinate its resources. Today, the defence support to society and other authorities will be provided, if necessary, within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces' existing capabilities and resources. The fire in Västmanland could have been extinguished earlier if the Swedish Armed Forces were assigned the task of maintaining a certain level of preparedness to support society with fire-fighting. Unfortunately, this was not the case. The Left Party wants to give the Swedish Armed Forces a mission to assist society in national crises and disasters. 中 Food security exists when, at all times, all people have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to meet their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life. This is the definition of food security by the United Nations Food Safety Agency. Half of the food we consume in Sweden today is imported. At the same time, Sweden's population has increased from 7 million to 9.4 million today compared with 1950. During the same period, the number of farms has decreased from 40 farms per thousand inhabitants to seven farms per thousand inhabitants. The agricultural land used has fallen from 4 million hectares to just over 3 million hectares, or from just under 600 hectares per thousand inhabitants to 325 hectares per thousand inhabitants. During the same period emergency stocks of food have been phased out. The retail trade has created a just-in-time thinking with its warehouses on the road. And the individual reserve of food with a long shelf life has more or less disappeared from our homes. All these changes increase our vulnerability to food security. At the same time, we see a strongly growing interest in the production and local processing of food. Long-term, well-thought-out work is needed that increases self-sufficiency, promotes jobs and meets the objectives of environmental policy. The Finnish Food Strategy is an interesting example. The Finns have, among other things, thought about how a farm should function even when there is a crisis and how food security can be solved regionally. The Swedish Food Strategy should provide a long-term perspective with a view to increasing self-sufficiency, promoting jobs and meeting environmental objectives. If food is missing the role of food in a crisis in the food strategy, the Riksdag has a responsibility for bringing that perspective in. One issue of vulnerability that is rarely discussed is access to medicines. The Swedish Pharmacy Association has carried out a study that shows that hundreds of thousands of customers are forced to turn at the door every month without medicine or go home with a different medicine than the one intended. Lack of consideration for crisis preparedness aspects in agreements combined with reliance on just-in-time thinking has created greater vulnerability. Several authorities have in recent years pointed to the vulnerability of lack of storage at both local pharmacies and wholesalers. The privatisation and liberalisation of the pharmacy market in Sweden has been considered to be a reason why a lack of medicines can occur when the cooperation between competing pharmacies cannot be implemented or the flow of information if the availability of medicines is not transparent. Sweden currently has very little domestic production of vaccines and medicines and is therefore dependent on imports. Thus, in the case of a serious infection, there is a risk of a shortage of both consumables and other care equipment. The government has initiated a review of the pharmacy market, and proposals on how to secure access to medicines would be welcome. Man needs to meet certain basic needs in order to function. We need access to water, food, heat, sleep and security so that there are no psychological and physical effects. Today, society is much more sensitive to interference than it used to be. Today, a storm or a blackout may be enough to cause serious supply problems for many. Even households are less equipped for interference because many are not prepared to manage on their own without the help of the functions of society. To have a layer of food at home as before is today quite unusual. Similarly, the possibility of taking water from your own well is very rare, even outside the city. Getting the individual to take concrete preparedness measures for abstract threats and risks is difficult. Daily needs always take precedence, and this applies not least to people who have never experienced a severe strain on society but also to vulnerable groups where everyday life itself is a challenge. Other countries' experience of national information efforts to strengthen the individual's ability to respond to crises and severe pressures should be studied with a view to designing a major Swedish information effort. An interesting example is the Canadian campaign for all citizens to last 72 hours on their own without government interference. This campaign has also produced measurable and concrete results. When evaluating the campaign, 42% of respondents in 2010 replied that they were actively looking for information on how to act in the event of a crisis. Five years earlier, the corresponding figure was 25%. By 2010, four out of ten Canadians had prepared or purchased an emergency bag and prepared a contingency plan. In 2005, the corresponding figure was three out of ten Canadians. Also in Sweden, MSB and the Civil Defence Association have worked in this direction, including with an online education: However, it still has limited resources and thus had a limited impact. There may be reason to review the need for us legislators to clarify the individual's own responsibilities and, at the same time, to invest the necessary resources to help people both understand responsibility and provide them with tools to shoulder responsibility in a crisis. I request the approval of reservation 21.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-658	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me ask for the approval of reservation 9. This debate is based on a report that we in the Committee on Defence have allowed to do: whether the crisis or the war is coming. It is a headline that has gained more topicality in view of the remarks of army chief Anders Brännström some time ago when he invited to the Markstridarna days said that the situation is such that Sweden can be at war in a few years' time. It's important to get that idea in. We in the Swedish parliament and in society as a whole have somehow thought of the idea that we should be vaccinated against Sweden being affected by war. That is something we believe and hope will never be the case. However, I think it is very important that we, in all instances, including this House, should be prepared for the fact that we can actually be affected. It has also been said on several occasions that if, for example, the Baltic States were to be attacked, it is wishful thinking that Sweden could be left out. As we all know, Mr President, a chain is never stronger than its weakest link. On this issue, as we have wanted to demonstrate in the report, civil defence is a weak link. It has been dismantled for a long time. For 20 to 25 years it has been dismantled, and it has accelerated – for the last eleven years or so we have been completely free. It is therefore high time we highlighted these pages and saw what we can do to strengthen civil defence. In the report, it emerges that about half of the county boards have clearly communicated the message of the individual's responsibility. Of our 290 municipalities, about one in three has done the same. As has been said here before, it is important to emphasise the responsibility of the individual. There are predecessor countries – Canada has been mentioned here – where in a far more successful way than in Sweden it has put forward the individual's responsibility to fend for itself. I would also like to highlight the emergency preparedness system. In the summer of 2014, what would be the biggest forest fire broke out in modern Swedish history. The Alliance government decided in August of the same year to set up a so-called forest fire investigation. The commission of the investigation was to evaluate the rescue operations and other work done in connection with the forest fire in Västmanland. The forest fire investigation points to a number of important lessons for the future and shows that in emergency situations there are high demands for well-functioning preparedness in society. Here it is important to see that there is a need for clear organisation, coordination and clear ways of communication. These are important elements for managing a crisis response. It is precisely under national pressure that citizens must be able to put their trust in the functions of society. We have received reports in committee which show the serious problems that existed in Västmanland. It almost got the impression that it was a wonder that the whole of Västmanland did not burn up. It is important that these experiences be taken into account, that we know the responsibilities so that we get away from the drainpipes and the information can flow freely and that there is a clear division of responsibilities so that we can put in place the right measures sooner than in the case of Västmanland. A few words, Mr President, about civil defence. In order to ensure and maintain social functions in a twilight state, all pieces of the total defense, military and civil, are absolutely necessary. For too many years, the work of planning the total defense has failed. Preparations have been sparse or none at all, and the possibility of maintaining some form of civil defence in the event of a crisis is very limited at all today. The planning of total defence needs to be resumed, and the ability of authorities to prioritise and allocate resources at central and regional level in the event of increased preparedness needs to be developed. The ability to activate total defence in the event of a crisis must be ensured. Civil defence requires collaboration between the Swedish Armed Forces and a number of social functions, organisations, institutions and companies. It's something that needs to be practiced. On behalf of the former government, work is currently under way to resume civil defence planning within county boards and central authorities. It should be ready by June. In this work, it is important that lessons and resources from work on accident protection and emergency preparedness are used in civil defence planning work. The Swedish Armed Forces have a wide range of resources and competences that could be an important part of society's preparedness for serious threats, accidents and disasters. Let me give you a few examples. As everyone knows, the Swedish Armed Forces disposes of many helicopters – more than fifty. Some are optimized for the search and rescue of people over land as well as water. For example, Black Hawk is a significant transport resource for the rapid transfer of personnel and equipment to an area where the resources of local authorities need to be strengthened. They could be used that way. Some of the helicopters are equipped for medical missions and could contribute in the event of major accidents when the civilian organisation of ambulance helicopters is inadequate. That is an example. The large transport capacity available in the form of the Swedish Armed Forces' transport aircraft is also a resource that could be significantly more planned into society's preparedness measures for different types of non-military threats. Engineers' units have vehicles optimised to operate under extremely unfavourable conditions, such as clearing roads or rubble. They also have staff who are specially trained to handle and disarm different types of bombs and explosive devices. Many of our garrisons also have special off-road protected tow vehicles with a capacity exceeding that of most civil tow trucks. They could be a contribution in situations where such qualities are valuable. The last example I would like to take, Mr President, is the various types of armored personnel transport vehicles of the Armed Forces. They could be a valuable resource for the police in actions where there is a high risk that the personnel will be shot at, for example in the event of counter-terrorism interventions. Mr President, I would like to The major problem in essence is not a lack of legislation or constitutional support. Authorities have the right to request support from each other. Rather, the problem is the tendency of different authorities to seek their own resources for all possible eventualities. This leads to mismanagement with state funds, and that is something we cannot afford in the future.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-683	Mr President, I would like to As you know, Mikael Oscarsson, the Swedish Armed Forces can join us today. You can ask for it, but there are already provisions for it. In the past, it was the Civil Protection Act that was invoked, but it still exists. It's regulated. There are precise rules on how to request assistance from the Armed Forces with helicopters and so on. That law exists. You might be able to look at it, but it's worked. The only prerequisite is to ask for help – in time.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-684	Mr President, I would like to What I concluded by saying, Roger Richtoff, was that the major problem is not essentially a lack of legislation or constitutional support. Authorities have the right to request support from each other. Rather, the problem is the tendency of different authorities to seek their own resources for all possible eventualities. This, Roger Richtoff, leads to mismanagement with state funds. That is what I mean – we need to make much better use of the resources we have.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-685	Mr President, I would like to Well, Mikael Oscarsson, you started by reviewing the legislation. You talked about it in the speaker's chair. But okay. Then I have a question for you: When you see and read about the problems that have been with fires and other things, do you see the same thing that I see – that MSB should have a clearer mandate to coordinate the business? Now it is the county boards that will coordinate between municipalities. It worked like that at the fire, and you practice far too little. Can you comment on that? Do you see no need for an authority that coordinates across the country?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-689	Mr President, I would like to In fact, at the moment, as we speak, work is under way that is due to be completed in June, where the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB are looking at a consensus and how to regain planning. I think that, as I pointed out in my speech, both one change and another may need to be made. It's been down for decades, so let's see what you come up with and what needs to be done. What we can agree on is that the civil defense as it stands today is not okay. There is a great potential for improvement, and given the serious situation we find ourselves in, it hastens.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-692	Mr President, I would like to As we have heard from previous speakers, this is about preparedness for crisis and war. There are many major issues in this report, and I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. I was going to start by telling you that in my profession a few years ago I worked at a preschool as a preschool teacher. Me and my assistant colleague were together in the yard when the whistle roared, and when the whistle roared, he dropped everything, took a giant cut over the fence and disappeared away against the fire station. There I was with all the kids. He was lucky. He had the right education to be a firefighter. Moreover, he complied with all the rules that existed and that still exist. He also had a positive employer who said it's okay that you have a job and still work part-time as a fireman. This has not worked so well in recent times when the labour market has become much more mobile than it has been in the past and you travel long distances. You live in one place, and you work on a completely different one. I think we need to start thinking outside the box, and I see it's finally starting to happen. Our government is now working on these issues and may be able to come up with other decisions. I think it's been hard to get the research into the corps. You have done the way you have always done, you go to an education you have received before, and you put out fires the same way. Today, however, we can do it in other ways, and it is important to keep up with it in order to do it in the best possible way when you put out fires. We could employ considerably more women, and this would also allow us to use other ways of extinguishing fires. I have visited the emergency services in my county, and there you start thinking about, among other things, fire bombs for elderly care. That means the staff in the care of the elderly could bring with them a small bullet that they throw in and that removes all the oxygen. In this way you can get a fire course that ends much faster. There are many things like this that MSB works with and where you investigate better functions. It takes time for new thoughts to settle, but I am very grateful that we are working on these issues, both in terms of women and also in terms of diversity. That's what we need. Education is part of this. Education must be where those who want it can get it. Not everyone likes to travel. Some people actually want to train at home, both locally and regionally, and we need to look at these parts too. Another issue we have discussed here today is the responsibility of the individual. I also have a story about it from when I was younger and had left home. My parents live in a small village. A cold winter struck it. The snow got a little warmer, and it thawed on pine trees and fir trees. Everything fell apart. Electric poles, telephone poles – everything was low. In three days I couldn't reach my parents at all. It was not possible to get in, and we were also forbidden to do so, because the power posts were over the road and you didn't know what would happen if we forced them. It was three difficult days. I didn't know if my parents had food. But after three days it turned out that they had been well. They had the pantry full of what they needed. It wasn't that hard. Who's in charge when that happens? Now we postpone responsibility from the preparedness we have had in the past, where society has taken a great responsibility, out to the individual. We have discussed many times in the Committee on Defence whether it is 72 hours. We have even produced a brochure. Is this what it's supposed to look like? But there is no proper guideline that says that you should last a certain number of hours or days. It can be both shorter and longer, depending on how serious the situation is. I still think it is very good that we have managed to produce an information script out to all municipalities and county boards so that they can start working on the issue. It is also very much about how to get this information to the citizens, and I think that is the most difficult part. The dissemination of information is not what we are best at. We have to work on that. There was an announcement, and the government is also investigating this issue. We are eager, and I hope the government will be too, and soon deliver on how this is going to be and how we are going to manage. In this part, our 18 voluntary defence organisations also work, of which 14 also work for MSB and volunteering. We must be careful of these organisations. They have a tough life out there, and I know that all of us here in the hall are turning for the NGOs and think they should help us very much. But that's not always what it looks like. They need a large office to cope with their internship and recruitment. They must have a business, and they must constantly strive to reduce costs. We only use them when necessary, but they also need to train and practice, not only during the crisis, but also in terms of leadership and those parts, and they must see their shortcomings and learn from them, just as we all do. I would also like to pay tribute to MSB. Krisinformation.se and the mobile app have been crucial; there I have often been able to read that it has been slippery in large parts of the country, that there have been floods or storms and other warnings. It has worked just fine. I think we all, when we can, must take responsibility for what is being informed through that app and also make it well known to everyone. For when you can get information in advance you can handle a crisis in a much better way than otherwise. I would like to spend not just ten minutes but much longer talking about our food supply. Together with LRF and the farmers I have been out on a variety of visits out in the county a number of Mondays. As a result, I finally had a journalist in my kitchen. When we had coffee for a while, he said, "Open the pantry, and we'll see how long you'll last." I opened the pantry, and I want you to know that I can last longer than 72 hours. I'm sure I'll manage well over 14 days, because I'm ready for most of it. But I don't think most people have it that way. If we are to have a supply rate in the country of food and water that will allow us to survive for a long time, we must also consider what our farmers are facing. They have a lot of concerns that they have to cope with, from the prices of milk and meat to agricultural aid, which should be paid out in time for the times promised, and the links between farms, which are also not so simple. So you have to have a certain number of animals or deliver a certain number of litres of milk to be able to send it away; otherwise you have to go together with your neighbors. It is always a plus to work together, the farmers think, but it is important that you have neighbors who have the same amount of animals so that you can get a considerable amount of money. So slaughterhouses and dairies are missing in my part of the country, and we should be thinking about how we could solve these concerns. It is also about the large-scaleness that we can see in southern Sweden versus the small-scaleness that is seen in other parts of the country, where there are both ditches and fences that stop and make it significantly more difficult. We also have problems with predators in certain parts, such as where I live and live. The predators multiply in that part of the country where I am. All of this means that very many farms decide that it is no longer profitable. I have a close friend who is closing down her farm right now. It is about 35 cows that will no longer be in her use. That means we get a smaller part. I wish we could take a great deal of responsibility for this part so that, in the long term, we can ensure security of supply. I know there are solutions. There are far more solutions if we can only see outside the box. I hope that the government will soon see to it that the solutions that are in the pipeline are available to everyone.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-718	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, which deals with many important issues. It is positive that Åsa Lindestam raises the basic supply issues and links it with crisis preparedness issues in such a good way. After last year's negotiations on the military side, we note, among other things, that we will return to the economic conditions for total defence and the civilian side. My questions to the Social Democrats are: where is the level of ambition based on the reality that is painted out in the speeches here in the debate but also the challenges that we know we have to address when it comes to how much money the government is prepared to allocate for this work? What concrete objectives can we address in future work? The individual's perspective is extremely important. With the vulnerability that exists, where transport can easily be cut off and ports can be blocked in different ways and for various reasons in times of crisis or war, it is very fast to empty the layers that are on the shelves in the shops. It would be interesting to hear how the government intends to analyse and address this vulnerability in order to prevent as much as possible and ensure that the transportation of food comes forward and also what measures are included in the solutions that Åsa Lindestam described in order to increase our own production of food, which is extremely important.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-723	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It's good to develop a little more here. The level of ambition for our government is high right now. I know that our Minister Bucht is now working hard to achieve a food strategy, which we have never had before. He will deliver this strategy. If I understand correctly, he has set himself the objective of increasing food production in Sweden, which benefits everything that we in the Committee on Defence want. This means that he looks at all the parts that Daniel Bäckström listed – how to transport, how the farms are located and what crop is grown. The food strategy has not yet been presented; it is on its way. But Bucht has been out in the country. I've listened to him. He describes many of the elements that we need to embrace. I have invited him to my county to share in the problems and joys that we have. I think we can do a lot more. We are doing this in a short time. He's been a minister for a year and a half and he's already made it this far. He has promised to deliver the strategy. To go back to you, Daniel Bäckström, you have been in the government for eight years and have not succeeded in that part. We have not received any delivery when it comes to how it should be, and we see that the figures have only gotten worse and worse. Now we have to turn this around, and that is why Minister Bucht has dealt with it. From the blizzard that was in New York a few weeks ago, I remember what the shelves looked like. We cannot have that, but we have to make sure that things work out somehow so that people have the food they need in the shops.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-729	Mr President, I would like to With the current milk crisis for Swedish milk producers – we are in the fifth quarter now – it is extremely serious when the state cannot go in and ensure that the payments of EU aid are made. It has a major impact on liquidity. In a situation that is already felt for Sweden's dairy producers, since a year ago, it becomes even more difficult. The regulatory framework for EU support has been unclear and continues to change in different ways. Is this what Åsa Lindestam thinks the government takes responsibility for? When it comes to being able to secure and develop production in Sweden, we have different perceptions of reality, because I have not yet seen the strong leadership of the minister when it comes to making concrete arrangements. Then it is always possible to return to the time that has been. The government's representatives often do this in this House rather than focus on what is actually needed for the next 8, 16 and 24 years. We lack the answers here, and that is why this debate is extremely important when it comes to food security, reduced vulnerability and what practical measures the Cooperation Government is now planning to take. Will Åsa Lindestam, when it comes to support for NGOs, work to ensure that we can increase the funding for them in the near future so that they can be a lubricant to develop total defence capabilities and peoples' attachment in the work, so that we can reach and engage many more Swedes in our common focus?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-734	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Daniel Bäckström, I think it's a milk crisis. I see it, too, in my presence. That is because the European system that we have today has not worked as we had thought and thought. Instead, it makes it possible for the quotas that could have been agreed to no longer exist. It has also caused the system of payments to make a mess, because new rules have been found. I very much regret that agriculture does not receive the necessary financial support within the time set. I think it should have come to that somehow. Although it has not been possible to pay out the full amount, I understand that a certain amount could still have been paid out. You haven't done that. You've waited. There's a computer system that doesn't support the rules that apply, so you're working too hard to change it. If I have received the right information, the payments will be made in May, which is regrettable, because it is much later than was intended. But that's what it looks like right now. A powerful leadership, Daniel Bäckström said. I think we have that if we can deliver a food strategy that can show the problems that exist. Delivery is to be powerful as a leader. There are shortcomings on the other side but not in the government that is currently in place. The NGOs are doing a fantastic job. I think we agree on that. The concern with NGOs is to try to work together with those who demand their services and, at the same time, when there is no crisis, to have the ability to practice and train and hold together an entire member organisation. They come in both large and small. It becomes a concern when the rules that we have today, which were made a few years ago, cannot function fully. There's a little bit to look over.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-739	Mr President, I would like to When I hear Åsa Lindestam say that there will be a food strategy eventually I will think of the old good expression: Let us hope that the cow does not die while the grass grows. Mr President, I would like to Total policy is incredibly multifaceted. We have been moving from areas like the pharmacy reform on the Dubai issue here in the last few minutes. It seems that there is satisfaction for all political interests within the framework of the concept of total defence. I have two questions for Åsa Lindestam. We had a study visit to MSB under the chairmanship of the committee a week ago. Then we were informed that the focus now is that it will be a military exercise in 2017, and then it will be a total defence exercise in 2024. Åsa Lindestam has now spoken warmly about the ambitions of the new government in this area. Then I would like to ask: is it a reasonable ambition that we have a first total defence exercise in even eight years from now? The second issue concerns the Swedish Armed Forces' support for civil society, which several speakers have addressed. When I visited the helicopter flotilla in Luleå shortly after the fire in Västmanland in 2014, I was told that the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces must not be dimensional in their support to civil society has led to that you cannot, for example, plan vacations for forest fire extinguishing during the summer, although everyone fully understands that they come every summer, so that the Swedish Armed Forces will have to pull out. Is Åsa Lindestam prepared to take steps to review the current aid regulation, which regulates these conditions?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-744	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Allan Widman, it's true that we were at MSB and got very good information about what they are and what they're doing right now. The most important thing for all parts of the total defense, I think, is that you get to practice. If you put some further ahead or do less exercises now and bring them together and see what results it has given and analyse the shortcomings you have, I think that is the best we can do. We need to practice both big and small. We also see the evaluations that have come, including from the fire in Västmanland but also from other exercises. What is difficult for us is leadership at the higher level and how to use the principle of responsibility. Then I am thinking in particular of the fire in Västmanland. All of this we need to know more about, how it could be. I think we all thought a lot when we followed the fire, when the fire went from one municipality to another and over to a third and a fourth, and then it went up to a county administrative board. It's about how you can handle those parts. Whether it is a sharp position or exercise, you can see that there are points where there are still shortcomings. We must somehow grasp these elements and try to find the right solution for how best to do it. We see in other countries that there are other solutions. We may have to look around the world and see if there are even better solutions. I've been to Brazil looking at how they've handled certain things. I can see that in some parts they are ahead of us. I think we can bring back a lot of knowledge. But we absolutely need to analyse what has happened.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-747	Mr President, I would like to 14 days ago, the Defence Committee made another study visit to the Swedish Defence Research Institute in Kista. At that time, the message of the Authority's experts on the question of Russia was very clear. It was said that Russia is currently changing for war. We discussed different time perspectives. When I expressed concern for the coming years, there were those at FOI who expressed concern for the coming months. Now Åsa Lindestam says to me – I cannot understand the answer in any other way – that it is reasonable to have a total defence exercise in 2024, eight years from today. In my opinion, Mr President, that is not at all reasonable. I assume that Åsa Lindestam is prepared, together with others in the Committee on Defence, to contribute to raising the ambition on this point. Finally, I asked a question about the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society and exemplified by how they interpret the regulations contained in the Support Regulation that the Swedish Armed Forces must not dimension their civil support activities and that this means that they cannot even make a holiday plan to extinguish forest fires. In the Defence Committee Åsa Lindestam together with me and all other parties agreed that there should be a review. Now I have to ask Åsa Lindestam again: Should such a review take place, or should it take place?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-751	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we visited FOI and received very good information from them too, including about Russia. Allan Widman may remember when we made a trip and met people in Moscow. The issues they had for us included food security. It was 2012 – 2013 that we were there. Food security and transport were discussed with us at that time. Now Allan Widman concludes that when you talk about it today, it means war. We can come back to that and discuss how it could be. I'm not sure that's the conclusion you can always draw – if you talk about food security, it means war – because we're also talking about this here and now on behalf of Sweden, and that still can't mean that we're going to have a war. I think the conclusion is a little weird. But we can certainly come back and discuss what is happening out there and what we should do. When it comes to the exercises, I want to say again that I think you have to practice many different things. I don't have a full list of all the exercises on total defense. The great exercise that you talk about later may be, but there are lots of exercises before then that you do together. I think all of them are needed to put together what's happening.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-754	Mr President, I would like to In recent years several serious natural disasters have occurred in Sweden. One of the major challenges we face, as a consequence of a changed climate, is a more extreme weather with increased risks of natural disasters. During the summer of 2014, a fire started in Västmanland County, which became the largest fire in modern Swedish history. It had been very dry before the fire at high temperature, and therefore it was extremely high fire risk according to SMHI's risk class definition. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency states in a report that a warmer climate will lead to an increased fire risk in Sweden. Above all, the warmer weather will make the fire season longer, with more possible days for ignition. The Authority also warns that the extinguishing organisation will not be sufficient if the risk of multiple parallel fires increases. But, Mr President, we also see other examples. In Målilla between Hultsfred and Mariannelund the skyfall led the other year to high water levels in Emåns biflow Brusaån and Silverån. The Skyfallet there resulted in large parts of eastern Småland being put under water. The outlet of Mälaren and Göta River as well as Skåne are other areas that are particularly sensitive to rising water levels. These areas are also some of Sweden's most densely populated areas. When these areas are hit by floods, it threatens great and important societal values. There may be serious damage to our societies. The increased flood risk mainly affects coastal settlements, roads and railways. Other infrastructure, such as dams, industry and agriculture, is also exposed. The supply of drinking water is in danger of being disrupted. Flooding of electricity stations can also lead to long-term power outages. The costs of this can be very high, if we are passively faced with this and there are increasing disasters in the form of forest fires, rising water levels and more torrential rains. But, Mr President, if we are already planning to equip our societies for this, we can be resilient to a changing climate and save both money and human suffering. All sectors and functions of society will be affected by a changing climate. Roads, railways, energy systems, communications, water and sewage, agriculture and forestry, health and health, and ecosystems will be exposed to new conditions and pressures. This type of weather-related disaster has always occurred, but climate research shows that extreme weather will be more frequent and widespread than in the past. This is shown very clearly by the UN Panel on Climate Change in its latest report. The temperature has already risen by 0.7 degrees Fahrenheit and emissions continue to rise. Globally, we see that the result is an increasingly warmer and wetter climate leading to more floods, increased spread of infection, more forest fires and more frequent heat waves. At the Third World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Sendai, Japan last year, Sweden, together with 187 other countries, contributed to a new framework for disaster risk reduction – Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. This new framework aims to make the world safer from natural disasters and disasters by reducing risks and preventing the consequences of natural disasters. The aim of this work is to significantly reduce losses in life, property and health, as well as in economic, structural and social assets by 2030. But how do we work with this in Sweden? Many municipalities and county councils have started important work in this area – to protect their communities from natural disasters. But it is becoming increasingly clear that many people find it difficult to manage these investments financially. Mr President, I would like to That is why I am very proud that the government is now investing in extending this support, in a first step of 80 million, to the local government's preventive efforts to protect our communities from natural disasters. This is therefore a first step, and I look forward to the government coming back with further efforts during its term of office.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-765	Mr President, I would like to These are extremely important areas that Mr Dalunde highlights in his speech. One thought struck me about the link with the security policy situation, climate change and the consequences that the famine in Ethiopia, for example, after a year of very severe drought, can bring for North Africa, for migration and for future spring sowing, where many have no seed. It is an example of many who confirm what Mr Dalunde says about these enormous challenges. As I mentioned earlier in the debate, I myself have some experience of standing with water over my head in areas where very heavy rain causes major floods. Linked to both the inflow to Lake Vänern and adjacent outflows, this is an enormous problem, and it seems to be returning. The regulation, both the large system and the smaller ponds, does not always follow. It takes time to reverse when a flood is expected and occurs. It is extremely positive that there is money for municipalities to apply for measures. I will mention Arvika as an example. Investment decisions of over 100 million have been taken there to build in and secure the inner harbour with a large dam. As I understand it, this has been done without state co-financing. I would like to ask Mr Dalunde a question. How much does the Green Party expect it to have to be paid out of the state in order to actually get preventive measures when there is a risk of flooding in the near future?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-769	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Bäckström for the excellent question. I also appreciate the connection with the outside world. We from the Green Party are often accused of putting the climate in place as soon as we talk about something. For example, one could look at the Arab spring, as one might say, began in Tunisia by a man setting himself on fire in protest against the work of the government and its activities there. It was, of course, a protest against politics itself. However, the reason why this protest took place at that particular time, according to many scientists today, could lead to the fact that, due to climate change, living in the rural areas of Tunisia was becoming increasingly difficult. This led to an urbanisation and a greater vulnerability concentrated in a particular city, which then became a breeding ground for this type of revolt. A similar pass could also be made when it comes to the war in Syria. The main reason for the revolt against the Asad regime was, of course, the repressive policy pursued by the government. But the fact that the revolt took place right there and then depends, says many researchers today, that climate change causes drought in rural areas and that farming becomes more difficult. It will be an urbanization and a critical mass for revolt in the big cities. I am absolutely convinced that if we do not stop climate change, we will see similar effects in country after country around the world. We must therefore do everything we can to stop climate change, so that we do not have to see the kind of revolt where human life becomes impossible.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-773	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely important that we work with climate improvement measures globally and also locally in this country. However, the short-term question is how the Riksdag and we as representatives of these issues think when it comes to supporting the local work here and now in order to be able to meet the already ongoing climate challenges when it comes to floods, among other things. In areas such as the Gillberga Valley, farmers have large areas under water during certain periods. It affects both the production and the value of the land, and not least it creates uncertainty for farmers as to whether they can carry out their activities. It also affects municipalities' ability to plan. The physical investment that needs to be made is often very large in order to dimension the activities. The principle of responsibility has often been discussed in this House. Who should take responsibility for what needs to be done? Often it is said that it is the one who has the greatest effect that needs to take it. But sometimes it's about the neighbour's pump, about the neighboring municipality's water that passes or about our water that passes somewhere else. It is difficult to define where responsibility lies. Nevertheless, we can see that the state has a huge responsibility in relation to the overall perspective. The State also has a responsibility to ensure that activities involving concrete measures are carried out. There are many municipal representatives around the country who have the same issues right now. Then it is extremely important to know what the Green Party is thinking about the dimensioning of money, so that over the next few years it can be possible for this to become concrete. I would like to ask Mr Dalunde another question: how do we reduce vulnerability in rural areas? It's about developing food production. It is also a question of developing small-scale energy production. Then it is interesting to know: What do you think about small hydropower?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-779	Mr President, I would like to Member Bäcks empty asked who is responsible. I will answer the actual question, but first I want to do some kind of historical passus. We had a bourgeois government for eight long years. Their main policy orientation was to reduce taxes and thus reduce the opportunities to invest resources from the state side in supporting municipalities. They also chose to make quite substantial changes to the social security system at the state level, which largely burdened municipalities' social work and made their work much more difficult and worsened their financial capacity to carry out a job in this context. Then let me turn to the very question: what do we do? The 2015 budget presented by the Government in autumn 2014 included substantial efforts to strengthen local government's efforts to protect against natural disasters. This budget, together with the other bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, elected the Center Party to vote against. Therefore, there were no bets for 2015. That was regrettable. Therefore, I am very pleased that the 2016 budget goes through, and there is 80 million for municipalities to strengthen their work to protect against natural disasters. I look forward to being able to strengthen this further in the budget for 2017 and for 2018. If the Center Party wishes to cooperate on this type of initiative, it would be very welcome.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-784	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only apply for reservation 19. We are debating a motion for a resolution containing 21 points on preparedness for crisis and war. Many different parts of total preparedness are highlighted. I can say a few words about the macro level – the total readiness. I am glad that we are no longer alone in advocating an invasion defence. Today, there is a majority in this House in order for us to reclaim the invasion defence. The defence's most important task is once again to defend Sweden with the first starting point in our country, air and maritime territory. I am disappointed that politicians before the SD came to Parliament dismantled the invasion defense. It costs to maintain an uneven course of security policy – first to phase out and then to withdraw. It is equally bad that civil defence was dismantled. It's a waste of resources now that we're going to reclaim civilian defense, but we can't back up the tape. Let us therefore invest both resources and thinking power in re-establishing the invasion defence and civil defence. The defense committee believes that the new civil defence can be fairly cheap and managed through networking between authorities. Stop and prove, we say – it will never work optimally to lead civil defence in major crises through networking between authorities. There must be responsible managers who are trained regularly. These leaders are then civilian commanders, just like the military commanders. We believe that the Civil Defense Authority should be re-established, with commanders at the same levels as the military organisation and also in a finer net. Other cornerstones of civil defence are emergency stocks and operational defenses. We are waiting and waiting for the government to present its proposal for a new civil defence, Mr President. Can we not even know when the proposal will come? The big picture, the whole picture, is important, but the details of our preparedness for crisis and war are also important. I shall therefore tell you why we think it is right to look further at a number of requests in the report. Because of increasing terrorism, crowds and crowds have become a problem. Urban planning should take this into account and the right to accessibility should be complemented by a right to accessibility. As little as possible must be forced into crowding and in difficult places. Alarm signaling evacuation should not only have sound but also light. A time when you do not wish for inaccessibility is when blue light vehicles need to arrive quickly in residential areas. There are different systems with tags that work on most boom locks and booms that fire trucks can crack. There are bars that can be driven past if you take advantage of prepared terrain. There is no reason to review the possibility of developing a national locking system for road barriers. The number of disasters is increasing globally. Sweden is so spared that our natural disasters are of less magnitude than elsewhere. However, we should take a financial increase in order for major disasters to occur in Sweden as well. Both the state, county councils and municipalities as well as the private sector should therefore be able to provide grants to special funds intended for compensation in the event of natural disasters in Sweden. Of course, in the event of a large-scale military attack on Sweden, all infrastructure will be under severe pressure. We can treat this sensitivity in different ways. We can have redundant systems, we can protect our facilities and we can have local compensation systems. A local compensation system that should be tested is special back-up power grids, strategically located and with a certain radius. Research shows that special back-up power networks with a certain radius are cost-effective when there are several socially important activities close to each other. With regard to the large-scale production of electricity in nuclear and hydroelectric power plants, the protection against peacetime and wartime sabotage should be developed. If we look back as far as when we set up our civil defence last time, in the 1950s, almost 900 000 people were placed in civil defence. 450 000 people were placed in public civil defence, 120 000 were placed in home protection and 200 000 were placed in work protection. Three million people could be evacuated from our cities at war. In the mid-1980s, population protection became a municipal responsibility. In 1990, the management and rescue organization trained by law of duty amounted to 200 000 people. Our parents and grandparents built a strong civil defence that has now been completely dismantled. You should think carefully before you phase out something completely. The 65 000 shelters we have left cost 200 billion SEK to build. They are still a resource to protect. A shelter fee would allow for more frequent inspections of the shelters.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-799	Mr President, I would like to I note among the motions in the report that the Swedish Democrat Kent Ekeroth has proposed that neither the police nor the fire brigade should be allowed to conduct targeted campaigns aimed at recruiting persons from minority groups or from a certain gender. I would like to ask why this is being proposed. If the ambition is to remove the focus on increasing ethnic diversity and the proportion of women, what will be the consequences for gender equality and diversity work in all municipalities' emergency services? Nevertheless, we have 3.8% women in emergency services, and that is a figure that needs to rise. If one then proposes that it be the same admission criteria for women and men who apply for emergency services, my question is what the consequences will be for the number of applicants in the future.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-801	Mr President, I would like to Our basic view is that we should not discriminate in admissions. The important thing about these functions, such as fire brigades, is that we are looking for function. Firefighters are under enormous strain; they must be fit, strong, and able to work hard for a long time. We are very happy for the girls who pass the tests, but there is no reason to lower the conditions for admission. We will then reduce the quality of the fire and rescue services, which we do not want. Then I also know that a great many women do not want to be quotaed for services. You want to know that you get a favor because you're the best for the place. This also applies to immigrants – we do not want quotas to be introduced. I think that quota thinking is a dead end, and I think that the Center Party should leave.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-803	Mr President, I would like to As I understood the proposals in the motion and in the thinking of the Swedish Democrats, it is about governing how the authorities should work with diversity work. The aim is to limit the ability of the authorities to pursue specific projects in order to be able to invite more people to be inspired by applying to the police profession and also to the rescue service. A work is being carried out in Malmö, for example, called Risk, the Rescue Service in collaboration with the kids. It is a result of a collaboration between secondary schools in Malmö and the Rescue Service S yd. It is an example of an activity to reach more people with links to different people in Sweden. More than 20 per cent of the Swedish population are associated with the rest of the world. Then it is extremely important that you have a breadth when it comes to language skills, not least in the rescue service, which works hard to help all people in Sweden. It must be possible to communicate in different languages during operations, not least linked to migration work. Therefore, it is important that it is fle r within the rescue service that has mastered languages other than Swedish. The Swedish Democrats then propose to limit the possibility of targeted campaigns by the authorities. That is remarkable, I think. It does not promote the necessary active work. The municipalities as a workplace are characterised by democratic and a and good conditions. Sometimes it takes an extra effort to reach certain groups and to be able to develop the municipal work in the long term.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-807	Mr President, I would like to Creating multiculturalism in any respect has never been the goal of our party. Other parties stand for it. Sweden is distinguished by the fact that there are parties that promote multiculturalism. Countries such as Germany, France and England have said that they are no longer promoting multiculturalism. Multiculture is dangerous. What we want to work for is good integration. Good integration of people who have immigrated takes place mainly in workplaces and schools. There have been experiments and playhouses – I think it can be called – military, police and rescue services. It lowers the requirements for some when adopted. It's clearly inappropriate. It's supposed to be the same terms for everyone. When admission to the military, police or rescue service – which has an urgent task to perform – it is important to meet the criteria that are not laid down for fun. These criteria set out what should be done to function in the ministry. We're not for any playhouses, no.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-811	Mr President, I would like to Very wisely has been said in the debate today. There has been talk of individual responsibility, education, the need for more exercises, food security and other things. What I want to talk about most is my motion and reservation 9, which is that there is a need for a review with a view to identifying responsibilities. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that more work is needed with risk and vulnerability analysis and more exercises. Åsa Lindestam was involved in food security. I'll deal with that in another exercise and reservation 18. Åsa Lindestam said that this should be part of the food strategy, but according to the answer I have received – and I am on the Environment and Agriculture Committee – it is not part of the work on a food strategy. I hope Åsa Lindestam will continue to work on this issue. The texts of the report say a great deal about the forest fire and its analyses. However, I cannot find much text on the major efforts made by the FRG groups during this event. FRG, i.e. voluntary resource groups, exists in many municipalities and is today a very important resource for municipalities. The League of Civil Defense trains these people. They are also trained in ownership. The training measures cover 72 hours. There are also schools, pensioners' associations, parents' associations, etc., and information about how to cope in the event of a shortage of electricity, water and heat. In today's refugee situation, it has also been shown that the municipalities have an incredible help from these FRG groups. A further 30 000 hours have been carried out by FRG groups in cooperation between the municipalities and the Civil Defence Association in 2015 and until the last February of this year. The arguments that work is in progress and that there is no reason for further action are rejected. I can't quite agree with that. The need for trained FRG people will continue to increase. More people need training. However, given that MSB's reduced funding for the Civil Defense Federation, this training will probably not be able to increase over the next few years, at least not under the auspices of the Civil Defence Association. Åsa Lindestam said that the NGOs are in trouble, and I can only agree with that. Therefore, I think that this issue is more urgent than waiting for the investigation that we do not even know when we will get, as I understand during the debate. In order not to prolong the debate, I would like to say that I naturally support all the M reservations, but I am in favour of reservation 9. For time winning, I refuse to apply for reservation 18, although I would have liked to have done so.
i-QbffTXnkWo2ggpA7ko87T4	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to endorse our reservation 8 on participation in treatment programmes. In other respects, I support the committee's proposal in the report. The report before us deals with criminal matters. We have a year of business behind us. Now the second year of the journey as a new authority has begun. After many years of reorganisation, the Correctional Service has completed its full year 2015 as a new authority with all the places and puzzle pieces in place. A little more generally, it has been a year that has been marked by both setbacks and successes. Drug use in prisons remains low. The screenings and the samples have produced results and show that you are working in the right way. There is a low level of drug and alcohol abuse in prisons. The share of escapes continues to be low. Last year, the number of escapes was zero from Class 1 and 2 institutions. Other deviations or escapes from the transport system or class 3 facilities have also been at a constant low level. The violence inside the prisons has been suppressed, not least by the active use of privacy. More than 13 000 privacy decisions have been taken, and this is an increase compared to previous years. But it also shows that it is proactively working to ensure that the prison environment is safe with good conditions for treatment and relations between prisoners. That is, of course, the prerequisite for success in one's main mission. Together in this Chamber and in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report, we have thought and scratched our heads for the fact that the relapse rate in crime is still far too high. It is perhaps in the light of what is to be seen the draft announcement for which the opposition has gained a majority in committee. It is possible that this is where the answer lies. In the meantime, I'm going to focus more on this particular issue. I shall begin by describing to the House what this is all about. It's two parts. One is that people convicted of violent crime should participate in a treatment program. Refusal shall affect the decision on leave and conditional release. The second part deals with those convicted of serious sexual offences or serious crimes against loved ones. It shall require them to undergo a conditional release treatment programme. There are things in this that can bear to think about. There is no doubt about that. Not all people in prison have a complete self - awareness of the need for care. You don't have the feeling that you're a perpetrator yourself and that the person you've been subjected to a crime is actually the victim. It is not yet possible to create a new life within the boundaries of the law. But, let us add, we now have systems based on individual testing of each individual. There are four different parts on which one can build an argument that the announcement is a bit unnecessary, as we think. I'll start with the design question. From the committee's side, we have learned that the government will set up an investigation and that the committee directives should be about looking at the risk assessment for conditional release. Maybe it was caused by another court case. What we have seen for a long time is that we have abandoned the principle of forced treatment in the form of forensic psychiatric care and instead replaced it with prison sentences. A lot of those in prison 10 to 20 years ago would have received forensic psychiatric care. They simply had not come out because they had not been finished, to put it plainly. Today, justice policy has slowly but surely sent more and more people to prison sentences and fewer and fewer to care. You are all well aware of that in this House. But it also means having problems with people coming out with parole but are not really ready to come out into society when the parole is over. That is what our penal system looks like, and unfortunately there is no escape from it. The focus is that this should be based on risk, need and responsiveness. It is a question of compulsory treatment for all within a specific group of perpetrators and convicted persons. This contrasts with the principle of individual assessment for the achievement of a result. International and national research is agreed here. Individual assessment is more successful than collective decisions and general methods for a larger group. I am sure that we also have a common understanding here, judging by the documents. Such assessment also means that resources can be used properly. A person who does not have these needs and who may have a high motivation should not put gunpowder on to the same extent as in the more difficult cases with those who have a longer trip to do. The use of resources is also a signal to the Prison Service about the basic principles of care needs. Moreover, compulsory care, or even compulsory care, as it may be in this case, also has a delicate ethical aspect. We have a number of doll legislations that deal with psychiatry and forced care, and where for decades we have been christening out legislation that should be balanced based on different principles and healthcare ideology. There has also been a great deal of consensus there. Bomb mats and general solutions may, I think, be perceived as politically effective from the outside, but I do not think that is the right way to go. In addition, we already have an employment obligation in the institutions. The Prisons Act obliges people to participate in various activities, work, treatment programmes or other activities while they are there. We have a situation in which the opposition can be a little itchy. It's a chronic illness for an opposition. You're supposed to have that thing, or you're not a good opposition. It is based on impatience and on the possibility of getting political points to run certain theses. But in this case, I think that it's unnecessary. I think we have a consensus that the investigator can come up with conclusions on which we can agree politically. I do not believe that the sharp announcements you make are necessary, but that we can wait with good conscience for the investigations that are on the table or that are on the way. With this, I have presented three main arguments and a formal argument for why I think this announcement should be rejected.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-835	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a motion report on criminal matters. We Moderates and the Alliance have made many good proposals regarding, for example, drop-outs, relapse prevention, radicalisation in prisons and more. I support all reservations where we Moderates are involved, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 5. We Moderates and other alliance parties want stricter rules on parole for those who relapse into similar crime. Parliament announced this to the government last year, and the government has informed that it will set up an investigation this year with the mission to consider changes regarding conditional release. That is why we have not reserved ourselves, but instead given a specific opinion. The report contains an announcement to the government to consider whether persons convicted of violent crimes should have an obligation to undergo treatment programmes. A refusal to participate would have consequences for leave and parole. The notice also includes that persons convicted of serious sex offences or serious crimes against relatives who refuse to participate in treatment programmes shall not be granted conditional release. The Moderates want a modern penitentiary that is safe and meaningful. The time in prison should prepare the inmates to get out into society and be able to live on the right side of the law without crime and abuse. Correctional services have a heavy responsibility to reduce relapses in crime. So far, society has failed. I am thinking, among other things, of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which Petter Löberg also mentioned. The report is a rather bleak reading, for there are very many who relapse into crime. The stakes are too few and too late. You don't know who's gonna pay. Cooperation is bad. The follow-up is short-term. There is a lot of criticism. The report shows that within three years 40 percent relapse into crime. Seventy percent of those in prison relapse in crime. It's way too bad. This has been the case for a long time. That is why we need to think about what we can do to reduce it. Relapses in crime mean a great deal of human suffering and great costs to society. The figure should actually be even higher, because not everyone who commits crime gets caught. What is important to remember is that there are innocent victims behind every relapse in crime. It may be innocent children or adults who are abused or raped. I know it sounds pretty hard, but it's actually reality. The other day I read the Prison Service's Annual Report for 2015. It shows that only 33% of clients with violence problems have participated in treatment programs. Of all those who completed their enforcement in the Prison Service in 2015, only 19 per cent completed a treatment programme. This is a decrease of 5 per cent from the previous year. So it's going the wrong way. The annual report also shows that only 32% of young people convicted participated in treatment programmes. This is a decrease of 7% compared to 2014. This is really troubling, I think. Mr President, I would like to Me and some other Moderates visited Norrtäljestalgen a while back. I raised this in another debate, but it is worth taking it again. We went to a department where there were serious sex offenders. The average time in this section was nine years in prison. There we talked to a man who was sentenced to 12 years in prison for raping a little girl for four years. The man told me that at first he did not want to participate in any treatment program but that he then changed his mind and still participated and became positive. He said that the program had somehow given him the realization that what he had done to the girl was wrong. He also believed that it would help him to refrain from carrying out such crimes when he was released. Even though he was more or less forced to go to treatment programs, he still thought it would help and reduce the risk of relapse into crime. In this section there were also many inmates who did not speak Swedish at all. Then we asked how to deal with them when it comes to treatment programs. There was nothing for those who do not speak Swedish. That is also worrying. Imagine someone who spends ten or eleven twelve years in prison and then is just released without any treatment! It goes without saying that there is a very high risk of relapse. Last week I was also on a study visit, then at the open-air clinic in Gothenburg. There we also discussed treatment programs. They had seen that people who had participated in treatment programmes in prison were far more successful in taking care of their child. They also believed that even those who were reluctant to participate in treatment interventions would have a positive effect on these treatments. I would like to mention a report that the Crime Prevention Council presented in November 2015. There they came to the conclusion that prisoners in prison have far too little to do. This applies both in vocational training and in treatment programmes. So there is a lot to do, because demand is therefore greater than supply. Anyone who wants to go to a treatment program should be able to do so. The report also found that half of those who had attended the treatment programmes considered that the risk of recurrence of crime was reduced, thanks to their participation in treatment programmes. Therefore, it is very important that more people participate and follow through. It was only 19 percent who completed the treatment programmes. Those convicted of serious sex offences and serious crimes against relatives and refusing to participate in treatment programmes shall not be granted conditional release, as announced. Some feel that being more or less coercive will have no effect. However, as I said earlier, it clearly suggests that it actually has a positive effect. What can also be a little motivating, for example, if you are sentenced to 12 years in prison, is that if you participate, you have the opportunity to get out after eight years. If you don't participate, you can spend the entire sentence of 12 years. This should justify going to a treatment program if you get four years less time in an institution. Those who refuse have not accepted their responsibilities and become aware of the crimes they have committed. As Petter Löberg mentioned, the government has informed that an investigator will be appointed during the year, which will be asked to consider whether a refusal to participate in treatment programmes will affect conditional release. We think this is too weak to write, and I am very pleased with our sharper wording in the announcement.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-852	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the Justice Committee's report on criminal matters, and the Swedish Democrats are, as usual, the secure cornerstone here in Parliament, which continues to stand up for decisive and consistent action. Our basic approach to tougher requirements is not based solely on a humane perspective vis-à-vis victims and their relatives. Harder demands are also often a prerequisite for returning criminals to a normal life of society after serving a sentence. In criminal matters, the Swedish Democrats have over the years proposed a broad battery of both factual and principled measures. There is a public reading for those who are interested. We have also, together with the Alliance, contributed to several announcements, including for a stricter regulation of parole for those who relapse into crime. And another announcement, the government will live with after this debate. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Swedish Democrats are the guarantee of tougher demands and a clearer victim perspective. And I am pleased that the Alliance between shipyards has approached the policy of the Swedish Democrats in joint alliance reservations. Without having to be part of a government and without being part of formal cooperation, the Swedish Democrats decide on proposals made between the Alliance and the Red Green Government, and we contribute to the policy moving in our direction. But I think we could do more. There are areas where I see a will in the Alliance that do not directly disturb us, and there are definitely more proposals from the Swedish Democrats that I think the Alliance could live with. I think we'll have to get back to exactly how we can disintegrate these knots in the future. Now, at least, the Swedish Democrats have contributed to the fact that leave and parole should be a little conditional on whether inmates participate in different treatment programs. The Alliance reservation, which has received our support, says more specifically that the government should consider whether those convicted of violent crimes should have an obligation to participate in treatment programs and that a refusal should have consequences for leave and parole. It is perhaps a somewhat weakly formulated demand, one might think, that a government is commissioned to consider whether someone should do something. If the reservation had consisted only of this, I think we would not have supported it. However, the reservation contains a more concrete requirement that makes it a little more uplifting, namely that gross sex offenders and convicted of serious crimes against their loved ones should participate in treatment programs to obtain leave and parole. Of course, assuming that automatic parole is the general rule, as it is today, I see a point in exempting people from this general rule, unless claims for compensation are complied with. There is a point in reasoning that may motivate someone to undergo treatment. But why do we really have a general rule that says that the person sentenced to a prison sentence should automatically get out a little earlier than the sentence means, that is to say, a general rule that if you are sentenced to ten years' imprisonment, you need to have a little more than six years' time? Only there have we put the picture of a judicial system that does not really stand up for itself. Sure, I have also heard the Minister of Justice say that so far it has been a little too lax with the two-thirds release. The government's answer now to all the motions that it rejects is to set up an investigation aimed at more people perhaps to sit by the penalty to which they are actually sentenced. This is something that in the world of Sweden's democrats would be a matter of course for all those who are convicted of crime. If you think that the two-thirds release is fundamentally wrong, there is actually a reservation in the report that wants to abolish it, and it comes from the Swedish Democrats. You're welcome to vote for it the sooner, the better. But okay, we're obviously not quite there yet. Nevertheless, the Alliance wants the conditional release to be compromised for serious sex offenders if they do not participate in treatment programs. This may result in one of them serving a longer prison sentence and one of them participating in a treatment program. It's always something. You will have our support on this matter for the time being. However, I would ask you to review the approach to parole in general. There is, like, no logic in supporting an illogical relationship with prison sentences. If you're sentenced to ten years in prison, you're going to be in jail for ten years. If you then want to motivate people to undergo a treatment program, there are other ways to work than starting from an illogical two-thirds release. In forensic psychiatry, for example, there is something called a special discharge test. It means you won't be released until you're well. Letting the prison system be inspired by this is, I think, a better starting point than starting from an illogical two-thirds release. Mr President, I would like to We also have a reservation about electronic monitoring, perhaps more commonly specified as a anklet. Today, the anklet is used as an alternative to prison, and most often it is condemned as a better alternative to shorter prison sentences. But we believe that there are more uses for electronic surveillance. There have been figures in the past showing that more than half of those sentenced to prison return to crime. It usually takes place within one or two years of serving time, and there is of course an explanation for that. When one has served a sentence, often, for natural reasons, clear procedures are lacking to meet a normal existence. Together with freedom, opportunities also arise, and with opportunities risks arise. For many, it takes very little to slip sideways again. I think that the old expression is making the thief a little bit of a summary of this problem, and if you have it as a starting point, you may also have a solution to this problem. The Swedish Democrats want those who have served a sentence for crimes against persons, drug offences, theft, robbery or grosser assault offences directly upon release to be provided with an electronic anklet for a period that is proportionate to how long the person has been in prison. The brief summary of why we are proposing this takes me back to the expression Our proposal simply removes the opportunity by means of electronic monitoring. If there's no time, there won't be a thief either. A good condition for not relapsing into crime is, of course, to allow normal routines to gain a foothold with the one serving a prison sentence. Electronic monitoring after serving a sentence is so far the best proposal to guarantee just such conditions. Mr President, I would like to It is worth mentioning that the Centre Party and the Liberals propose to use the electronic anklet after serving a sentence but only for those convicted of serious sex offences or serious crimes against relatives. The reason is that these criminals can pose a threat to their victims even after serving prison sentences. We sympathise with the motive and the response. Your proposal is in line with both motive and actual action within our reservation on electronic monitoring. Since the Swedish Democrats are larger than the Centre Party and the Liberals together, our reservation is likely to be the main proposal against the government. You are very welcome to vote for it if you are prepared to support a proposal that places more demands on acquitted perpetrators and has an even broader victim perspective. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation on conditional release and electronic monitoring.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-874	Mr President, I would like to We're debating penitentiary issues. I will think about two things when it comes to penitentiary. It is partly punishment and partly to prevent future crimes. The latter is particularly important to me. When I read the report, I note that there is a rather broad consensus between the government parties and the opposition, apart from the Swedish Democrats. There are, of course, different nuances, and it is always good that the opposition is doing its best to burn the government side so that it will go faster – and preferably even faster than that. At the same time, it is important when it comes to crime and punishment, legislation and penitentiary that what we do is based on science and research and has to take some time. That is why we felt that it was important to include in the report the information on the forthcoming report on conditional release. It was not intended to be published at the moment, but when it turned out to be a central point, we thought it was important that we share the information so that everyone can understand that this is happening and that it is a discussion that we will have in common. We'll see in peace and quiet what it's really about. What are the experiences? What research is there? What methods are most effective in achieving the best possible results for the punished, i.e. those in prison, and in preventing future crimes? Then it does not help to demand harder hold and more and more punishment. There are countries that are moving in that direction, but it is not the case that crime is being reduced there. Since I'm not a specialist – I'm neither a lawyer nor a correctional officer – I prefer to listen a little humbly to research and science and to the professionals and take it to heart. That is why I think the issue of investigation is so important. Unfortunately, this investigation has been somewhat neglected and hastened up a little too much in recent years, and I am therefore pleased that this investigation is coming. Then we can embrace what's best. What about parole? How can this be nuanced in such a way that we become wiser? This may lead to new legislative proposals, which is exactly what the opposition is calling for. That's what we want to do. Here I mean that we are quite in agreement. However, listening to occasional study visits is not enough. It has to be wider than that. We are in complete agreement that we should look at it. That is not what we are discussing. As my colleague Petter Löberg has described, this is a way forward in order for us to have a better penitentiary in the future. It's a matter of not being too impatient, or we'll end up in the wrong place. We can be sure of that. Mr President, I would like to I commend our reservation.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-886	Mr President, I would like to You said you weren't a specialist, Mats Pertoft. We had a marked rape case in West Sweden where the perpetrators were not convicted of aggravated rape because they raped in turn. The average rate of rape is about two and a half years in Sweden. The penalty scale is two to four years. You don't have to be a specialist to understand that something is wrong in our society, especially because we have two thirds of release for the low penalties imposed automatically. What is the position of the Green Party on this? Why should persons convicted of rape be given an automatic two-thirds release? Why is it said that they have earned this and do not have to spend two or three years in prison but receive two-thirds release? I don't understand why. Please justify why they should be given an automatic two-thirds release when they have committed such serious crimes and in view of how low the penalty scale is already.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-892	Mr President, I would like to I assume that Adam Marttinen was not present at the court proceedings, but perhaps he was. For my part, I can say that I think rape is a terrible and serious crime. However, I am not aware of why the judges have judged which they have judged. I cannot therefore comment on it. However, the fact that the government announces an investigation into parole is because we believe that the matter should be reviewed. We have no ready-made solutions, which the Swedish Democrats seem to have without taking in knowledge. We want to look into things and then come up with well-founded proposals in the government and parliament. Having simple solutions to everything and seeing the world in black and white is no way forward if you want to take responsibility.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-895	Mr President, I would like to You don't have to be a specialist to have an idea of what's right and what's wrong in a society. I stand here as the elected representative of the Swedish Democrats because my constituents think we have far too low penalties in Sweden. Moreover, for these low penalties, we have a two-thirds release granted automatically to criminals who have committed serious crimes and, in their acquittal at the two-thirds release, can also be dangerous to society. The very basis of your investigation lies in known cases that have been highlighted, such as Hagaman. I understand that you want to do something about it, but the Swedish Democrats already have strong proposals to remove the illogical two-thirds release. As I said, you do not need to be an expert in order to understand the consequence of removing the two-thirds release. It simply means that those sentenced to ten years in prison will spend ten years instead of just over six years. I think this is a reasonable measure, and I still do not understand why the government is pushing the trigger on this issue.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-899	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Adam Marttinen, I don't see the world as black and white. I realise that laws, regulations and penalties are a complex apparatus that we need to examine carefully in order to come up with good proposals that are well-founded and are about facts and not just about emotions. But if you see the world as black and white, everything is simple. Then you can do this directly without being aware of the consequences. The government's intention to launch this investigation is that we see this as a problem and something we want to look at and then return to Parliament with concrete proposals. To say that you already know the sounds in my ears very populistic, very ill-considered and rather stupid.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-902	Mr President, I would like to The socio-economic benefits of breaking a person's criminal path are considerable. This means, above all, that fewer people are subjected to crime and the suffering that it entails. For the criminal, the right type of penitentiary can mean that a life in alienation and misery with an increased risk of self-affecting crime is changed to a normal life with a high quality of life, in the absence of a better word, where one can seek one's dreams and be involved in society. Finding appropriate sanctions is a challenge that has to take many aspects into account. Legal certainty and equality before the law is one, and the restoration of the victim and society is another. But it is also important for the person who commits a crime that there is a chance to do penance, to atone for his crime. Clarity and transparency are desirable, while different penalties may be more or less appropriate for different individuals. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the lack of clarity is a serious shortcoming in many parts of life. We assume that everyone understands that crime is wrong and that all efforts for a criminal to get out of and out of a criminal life are right. Deep down, it's probably like that for most people. But if there is no reaction and the one who does the right thing never benefits, it will be just nice thoughts – something that at best sounds nice in a parliamentary debate. In committee, we have now agreed that the government should consider whether persons convicted of violent crimes should have an obligation to undergo treatment programmes. A refusal to participate in such a programme shall have consequences for the inmate's ability to obtain leave and conditional release. The inmate's participation in treatment programmes shall be a requirement for the conditional release of persons who have committed certain types of offences. Mr President, I would like to Participation in treatment is a way of doing the right thing and can be an important part of doing the right thing. This should, in my view, be encouraged. On this point, I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal. Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of sensible proposals that are being dealt with in this report, and I believe that many of them will gain a majority after a time of debate and discussion. A proposal which today unites the two liberal parties of Parliament, the Liberals and the Center Party, is what we call our joint reservation 15. We want to strengthen the victim's protection on the release of prison sentences. During the prison sentence, the perpetrator has been locked up and thus has not been able to violate the restraining order. There is currently no possibility of deciding on a anklet in connection with the release of the perpetrator, even if he or she is deemed to be dangerous to the environment or there is a pronounced threat to, for example, an ex-wife or ex-partner. We want perpetrators convicted of serious sexual offences or serious crimes against relatives also to be able to get a ban on contact with a anklet right after the prison term. I would therefore also like to call for reservation 15 to be approved. Mr President, I would like to In prison debates, one sometimes hears greatly simplified or even populist arguments. They are designed to strike the strings of us who are outraged by atrocious crimes. However, I believe that we must keep our heads cool and not fall short of our never-so-motivated feelings in the face of serious and terrible crimes. The criminal justice policy of the Center Party can be described in the same way as our legal policy in general. We're supposed to be tough on crime, but not on others.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-911	Mr President, I would like to How does it feel to be locked up? How do you feel when you're locked up? How does it feel to sit in a space that is not much larger than the President's desk? How does it feel to pull your fingers along the white rough wall and along the small sink, sit down on the bed and feel the tovig blanket? You're hungry. That sandwich for breakfast wasn't that big or so good. The light goes out, and it goes back on. The button sits outside the locked door, so maybe there was someone pressing the wrong button. I wonder what time it is, wondering when I can talk to my mother and wonder when the lawyer calls. You don't have a sense of time in there. You don't know how long you've been there. You have no idea how long you're gonna be there. This was the situation for 120 children in 2011. Because they were in custody. Eighty percent of these children were in custody with restrictions. This means that they are not allowed to have contact with others. They can't make calls, they can't read newspapers and they can't meet any other person. Arresting children is something we in Sweden are world champions at. We're the best in the class at arresting children. According to the UN Committee on Torture and the Council of Europe Committee on Torture, we win this competition year after year. We are also world champions at isolating children and thus keeping them completely trapped for up to 22 hours a day. This isn't a competition we want to win. It's not a competition that it's good to be the best in. When it comes to isolation, let us remember that children sitting in isolation are hit much harder than adults. They feel mentally and physically worse, and they feel emotionally much worse. The UN points out that the risk of suicide is quite high among children in custody. That is why the Left Party wants all children in custody to be entitled to at least two hours of human contact per day. We take this world champion thing seriously. There is a lot of work going on out there with our authorities to reduce isolation and the long detention periods. That's very good. The DA and the Correctional Service take this seriously and work on these issues. We on the Left side believe that it is extremely important that we not only work with policies and investigations that can give directives, but we also need legislative proposals. That is why we must ban the arrest of children. I'm getting a lot of anger. You get bad thoughts in that cell – really, really bad thoughts. You get weird, you get cold, you get suspended. That's what it feels like to be a child and be in jail. That's what it feels like to be a child and be isolated. But children sometimes need to be arrested. In fact, it is sometimes necessary to ensure that children cannot dispose of evidence or interfere in a preliminary investigation. Then there must be alternatives. This is what we want the government to investigate. For example, one option could be a Sishem. We believe Sishemmen has this expertise. They have a skills in what children need when they are locked up, and they also have the skills to take care of children, unlike prison staff. We need to stop arresting children. We must also ensure that those in custody have the right to human contact. You don't get nicer because you're sitting here. It'll make sense to anyone. If you just hang out with criminals for many years, you won't be less of a criminal. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 2.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-923	Mr President, I would like to How does it feel to be locked up? How do you feel when the light goes off from the outside? I'm sure it doesn't feel nice at all. But how does it feel to be raped? How does it feel to be beaten up and end up in a wheelchair? Actually, I'm thinking more about that. I've told you before that I worked as an investigator at the Youth Division in Gothenburg. There I met many 16-, 17- and 18-year-olds. They weren't pigeons. Many of them were more or less professional. Linda Snecker says they're kids. Yes, they may be in the legal sense, but many of them have committed serious crimes time and again for years, destroying innocent people's lives. Many of these youths belong to different gangs. That is the major reason why many of them have restrictions. They should not be able to communicate with the outside world. They shouldn't be able to talk to each other and destroy the investigation. There are no restrictions on young people under the age of 18 for fun. It's done because you have to clear up crimes. This is for the innocent people who have been subjected to serious crimes. They're the ones I feel sorry for in the first line, but it doesn't seem like Linda Snecker does.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-929	Mr President, I would like to Since you, Ellen Juntti, have worked in this business, you know what it's like to investigate children. You are a Member of Parliament and are in one of the most important committees in Parliament. Then you also know what the legislation looks like. We do not have legislation that goes out on the eye for the eye, tooth for the tooth. It is not the victim of the crime who is allowed to decide what punishment the defendant should receive, but it sounds a bit like this is what Ellen Juntti is into. My question is, why do the Moderates want to arrest children? Why do the Moderates not want to listen to decades of criticism from the United Nations Commission on Torture and the Council of Europe's Commission on Torture, that, as I said, we are world champions in arresting children? Why do the Moderates want more restrictions when the prosecutor doesn't even want to? The prosecutor has done the investigation and has checklists because the prosecutor should more clearly justify why restrictions are imposed. Why don't the Moderates think it's good? Why don't you think the prosecution's actions are good? I'd like to know.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-932	Mr President, I would like to It is not an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, but we want that if someone has committed a serious crime against someone innocent and more or less destroyed the life of that person there should be conditions to conduct preliminary investigations and investigate the crime without them being destroyed. It's about redress for the victim. That's why we want the perpetrators, if necessary, to be in custody. It's not for fun. It is not a question of more cases or more frequent restrictions or restrictions, except where necessary. However, if restrictions are needed to resolve a serious crime, restrictions and detentions should be possible. Then it is the prosecutor who decides on restrictions. It's not the Moderates. If more people have been restricted, it is that the prosecutor has decided on it. Linda Snecker says that even the prosecutor doesn't really want more restrictions. Yes, the prosecutors do. Otherwise, those in custody would not be restricted. At first instance, there is no one but the prosecutor who decides on restrictions. That's where Linda Snecker is wrong. As we see it, the main purpose of detention and restrictions is to provide victims with the redress they need, and then you have to do everything to clear up serious crimes.
i-3hP3yZhEpnkEGCs3uNVDW3	Mr President, I would like to In 2013, 119 persons aged 15 to 17 were detained. 47 of them were isolated with restrictions. As I said, 80% were restricted in 2011. We have an incredibly large proportion of restrictions in Sweden. For this we are repeatedly criticised by the UN and the Council of Europe. Yes, we sometimes have to arrest children. They sometimes have to sit with restrictions, but they shouldn't do that in a jail. A jail is no place for a child. I'm very worried when I hear the Moderates, because you're missing that we have to have a child perspective even in the penitentiary. We have to see children as children. The person under the age of 18 is a child. You don't have the same emotional maturity as an adult. You can be a criminal and commit terrible acts, but you're no less human for it. You can commit criminal acts, but you're still as much a human being. All national and international research shows that people with long prison sentences are institutionalized. Starting as a young 15 - 16-year-old sitting with restrictions, what kind of picture does it build of yourself? It builds the image that you are a criminal, and then you want to continue on the criminal path. That's not what the Left Party wants. We want you to break the criminal lifestyle when you're young. That's why you shouldn't hang out in these environments. One should be removed from custody and placed somewhere else. This does not mean that it should be softer and smaller, but it should be professional people who can work with children. We are going to introduce the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. It sounds to Ellen Juntti like this is something the Moderates are against.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-942	Mr President, I would like to We have recently been able to read about the high-profile rape case in West Sweden, where a couple of men raped a group of women. In the district court, one of the persons was convicted of aggravated rape to four years in prison – the penalty scale is between four and ten years. The judgment was then appealed to the Court of Appeal, and then the person was sentenced to three years' imprisonment, since the court considered that the perpetrators had raped the woman in turn and not in group, and then the crime was no longer considered serious. So they went from four years on the scale of sentences for serious crimes from four to ten years in prison to three years on the scale of sentences for ordinary crimes, which are between two and six years. It's still pretty low, I think. Added to this is the two-thirds release, which means that the perpetrator, if he does not make any major fuss about himself in prison and perhaps wears a tie every other Sunday, makes the Left Party so impressed that they want to release him after two-thirds of the sentence period. I'm asking, why?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-944	Mr President, I would like to I know what it's like to be a victim. I know what it's like to sit in the same negotiating room as a man who has sent six-sms about being raped and about him doing things that I won't say in this room, Mr President. I know how it is. Also, have been a sympathizer to your party, Adam Marttinen. I have that experience. But I still think we have a system in Sweden that works well. I'll tell you about the parole. We have it in Sweden because we do not have a penalty system that goes out on the eye for the eye, tooth for the tooth. As a victim, I am not the one to decide the punishment for anyone who has threatened me with rape for five years. I don't have the skills to do that. It has judges in a legal system. When this person comes out after the prison sentence... now he's appealed to the Court of Appeal... I'm glad that parole exists. Then I know that the person who has threatened to rape me and been in prison for it – it may only be a few weeks – is on his toes, because if that person does something new to me or someone else, he will immediately go back to jail without a parade. I think that's a good system.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-948	Mr President, I would like to It was actually a pretty clear answer from the Left Party and Linda Snecker. It is perfectly acceptable that those who commit serious crimes and who may still be dangerous to society when they are to be acquitted should be allowed to walk freely in society and perhaps meet the victims they have subjected, for example, to rape or aggravated rape. That's what the Left Party thinks is all right. As I said, if you don't make a big fuss about yourself, and if you just behave in prison, according to the Left Party and Linda Snecker, you should be rewarded with being released when you have served two thirds of the sentence. Perhaps I do not need further clarification on this issue. Of course we think it's wrong. We think that the starting point should of course be that you should spend the time in prison that you have been sentenced to. But, as I said, now that I have exemplified this rape case, I think that all women in Sweden can take with them that the Left Party thinks it is perfectly OK that the rapists go free after the two-thirds release without having to do any kind of performance in prison at all. The Swedish democrats think it is wrong. We welcome the clear answer, but we do not welcome the political position of the Left Party on this issue.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-952	Mr President, I would like to I'm not impressed by someone coming out, who you think dresses in a tie, Adam Marttinen. I'm not impressed by you wearing a tie either. You stand for what you stand for. When it comes to parole, you must be able to intellectualize the debate. You have to be able to listen to what we mean. The man who threatened me with rape, who sympathized with your party, will be convicted. He'll be sentenced to prison. Even convicted people come out of prison. When people come out of prison, they should be treated. They should not want to return to the criminal course. We know that being in prison for a long time is institutionalising. You don't get less prone to crime because you're hanging out with other criminals. You don't get more adapted to everyday society because you're in prison for a long time. But this is not something the Swedish Democrats want to understand. You just want to score political points. You stand here and say that every woman should listen to you when I'm the one who's been threatened with rape. I am the one who can intellectualise and conduct a political debate. We need to have a system where it's not an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth that applies. It is about a prison system that actually rehabilitates people, so that they work in everyday society. But this is not something the Swedish Democrats want to understand. You don't want to understand this. Conditional release exists for you to be on your toes when you get out. You should know you're going back to prison if you make the slightest mistake. It's an incredibly much better system than sitting off all the time and then being able to do tricks right when you get out.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-957	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to express my support for all the reservations of the Liberals, but in particular for reservation 15, which we have with the Center Party, on electronic monitoring. It is rather fun to conclude and round off this debate on the Prison Service, in which the Liberals have the approval of a majority in the committee to force people to enter into a treatment programme as a requirement for conditional release. Those who have been convicted of very serious sexual crimes should be able to force to participate in a program if there is a great risk that they will endanger other people at the time of release. Nevertheless, I would like to make a few comments on detention periods and the National Forensic Centre, which nobody has touched on. The report states that analytical activities are important. There are major problems with long processing times. You don't get analyses. It could be weapons. It could be murder weaponry. It may apply to other types of instruments. The government has said that it is prepared to look at this, and today I actually received a reply from the Minister for Home Affairs, which refers only to Statskontoret's follow-up. There was not a single proposal to really reduce the length of proceedings even though it has a huge impact on the rate of clearance and the possibility of actually prosecuting people in the court proceedings. In the case of electronic anklet, this possibility exists since 2011 in the case of a restraining order, an extension of a restraining order and, in particular, an extension of a restraining order. However, it does not apply in paragraphs 2 and 3. The criteria for applying the electronic anklet are far too high. Here we from the Liberals have literally chased the government. On March 16, last year, the Liberals had a debate with Morgan Johansson. He said then that he would come back with a proposal to review the rules for electronic anklet. But there was never a suggestion. Then others in the Alliance have also hunted the government. And today I read in a TT telegram – it fits well in the light of today's debate – that the government now wants to review the rules for anklets. It's a passive government. It is a slowness that is not good for the victims and the people who would need this extra protection in society. This is also linked to the announcement proposed by the Committee on Justice. I have heard that the majority parties think it is unnecessary. The report states that the Government intends and possibly wishes to review this issue. But that is exactly what they said a year ago when it comes to electronic anklets. Nothing came. We do not intend to take any risks, Mr President. It is very good that Parliament will make this announcement, hopefully in a few minutes.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-969	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate in this House issues relating to social security contributions, and I shall begin by calling for our reservation to be approved. Since 2006, 90 000 more people over the age of 65 have been working. The fact that more older people choose to work is the result of an active policy. The Alliance government made it cheaper to hire people over the age of 65, and the increased job tax deduction for older people increased the driving forces to work longer. The current government is moving in the opposite direction and proposed in its budget proposal last autumn to introduce a special payroll tax for people aged 65 or over. This reduces incentives to a longer working life and risks counteracting the good development we have seen in recent years. The Moderates stand for another path. That experienced employees want to work anymore should not punish themselves. It'll pay off. The possibility of working longer should cover as many people as possible. Strengthened driving forces for higher-age work, an adapted working environment and a well-functioning labour market policy strengthen the conditions for a longer working life. We are getting older and healthier, so many people want to work longer. Continued work can improve the quality of life for many. To continue to contribute, to make some extra money or simply to enjoy our job are important factors to make use of. We also have an ageing population, where fewer people will support more and more people. In addition, more and more people start working later in life. A longer working life is needed for us to be able to finance welfare in the long term. But for older people to remain in the labour market, employers also need to be willing to employ them and society needs to see the skills of older people. Policy should therefore be designed in such a way that people who want and can work longer are given the tools and the opportunity to do so. In a survey carried out by AMF, the result is that the proportion of pensioners who have wanted to work longer has increased in recent years, from 16% in 2010 to 19%. A survey conducted by the Swedish Pension Agency in collaboration with the Pension Age Survey shows that old-age pensioners 61 – 70 years of age who do not work would actually want to work – and about 25 – 40% of pensioners say that they would have liked to have worked longer if attitudes towards older people were less negative. The few studies on age discrimination show that discrimination against older people in working life is widespread. Negative prejudices and attitudes are reasonably best counteracted if more older people work, and therefore we need to lower the thresholds for those who want and can continue working. At this point in time, taxing the elderly and forcing them out of the labour market, as the government is now doing, is the wrong way to go. Rather, the thresholds need to be further lowered in order to make the group older even more attractive in the labour market. We do this best by, among other things, keeping employers' contributions to hire older people. We have therefore proposed in our budget motion that there should be lower taxes on working more from the age of 64 rather than from the age of 65. Our proposal means that 70 000 64-year-olds receive reduced tax and employment is expected to increase by between 1 000 and 4 000 people. When the government wants to make it more expensive to hire people over the age of 65, the Moderates want work for the elderly to pay even more. The strengthening of the employment tax credit already in the same calendar year as the retirement age reinforces the driving forces to remain in the labour market. Mr President, I would like to The government claims that they are pursuing a policy of jobs and entrepreneurship while proposing and implementing reforms that they know will dampen employment. It is serious that the government's tax increases on jobs and labour income are more than 40 times as large as their investment in entrepreneurship. As if it were not enough for the government to increase the tax to hire older people, the government also raises the employer's contribution to hiring young people. If you increase the tax on youth jobs, and if the cost to the employer is the same for a young and inexperienced person as for an experienced person, the choice for the employer is often given. It will hit young people hard and make it difficult for them to get their first job and enter the labour market. This will lead to an increase in youth unemployment and will hit hard, not least, youth-intensive sectors such as the tourism and retail sectors. Nearly half of the employees in the hotel and restaurant sector and just under one third of the retail workers are under the age of 26, and the increase in employers' contributions is equivalent, in trade alone, to the cost of employing 14 000 people. In addition, companies in these sectors are often important from the point of view of integration, as they represent an important way into the labour market for foreign-born and other groups that find it more difficult to find employment. The fact that the government is now proposing to double the employers' contribution for this group affects those who have the weakest position in the labour market. Mr President, I would like to The government now makes it more expensive to hire both younger and older workers, while their income tax increases affect over 1 million wage earners. It threatens to slow down the broad job growth that we are now seeing and that the Alliance has actually laid the foundations for. It is still completely incomprehensible to me how the equation goes together. How does the government believe that raising taxes to employ both younger and older people in the labour market will lead to more jobs?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-988	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate SfU12 social security contributions in this House. Firstly, I would like to continue with the previous subject, on which I agree quite a lot. I would like to talk a little about the opportunities and incentives for older people to remain in work rather than retire. In a committee motion from the Moderates, it is proposed to reduce social security contributions for the elderly. I think that this is a good idea in principle, but I think that it puts the finger on a larger issue in which we can make the famous observation that in future we have to work higher than we do today. We probably do not disagree that this must be the case. As the average age increases, it is natural that even the average age for quitting work is raised. But how are we politicians to ensure that this is done as smoothly and smoothly as possible? I do not wish to say that I have a miraculous answer to that question, nor do I think there is an individual simple answer. But one thing I am absolutely sure of is that I, for my part, prefer stimulating measures for employers and workers rather than forcing people to work at a higher age by raising the retirement age. The prospect of hearing this question in this particular case is, I believe, small, probably non-existent. And since the policy of the Swedish Democrats means quite different, and much more comprehensive and far-reaching, improvements for our older people as a whole, I am leaving the issue at the moment. I look forward to having that debate at the time when it will be even more topical in the future. Mr President, I would like to For sportspeople and others who receive compensation from a non-profit association with sport as their main activity, there is currently an exception to paying social security contributions for this compensation. The derogation applies for up to half a price base amount per year. That's good. Not least in our modern sedentary times, it is desirable for people to engage in sport. It is indisputable that society as a whole benefits from the movement of people, and to stimulate this is justifiable for reasons of both economic and public health promotion. Mr President, I would like to Associations engaged in leisure activities in different ways are not covered by this rule on the abolition of social security contributions. Or rather, they are sometimes covered, a little depending on exactly what activity they are engaged in. You can say, if you want, a little bit of grandeur that they don't have to pay social security contributions, only or sometimes during odd weekends between Tuesday and September. We in Sweden believe that this is a bad order for a number of reasons. Perhaps the most obvious is the seemingly very fuzzy line between what is sporting activity and what is outdoor life. Swedish outdoor life – which is an umbrella organisation for Sweden's outdoor organisations – states that there are 1.8 million Swedes who are members of an outdoor organisation. So it's a giant popular movement we're talking about. It is a peoples' movement which aims to promote physical activity in various forms to the same extent as sports associations. Furthermore, the outdoor organisations also manage other values, not least respect and awe of our fantastic nature. But this also applies to transparency and participation in our common cultural heritage. Around 300 000 children in Sweden are members of an outdoor association, children who I think will have very good opportunities to take over the management of our nature and our customs around staying in the forest and land when they one day become adults. But although I think that the natural and cultural aspect is important, it is still equal treatment that I think is the strongest argument. It is not reasonable that an activity engaged in the promotion of public health and physical activity should have completely different conditions from another association with exactly the same purpose. In a wide range of motions, including from my own party, it is proposed that social contributions be abolished for compensation up to half a price base even for associations engaged in outdoor activities, so that we have uniform rules for all associations with almost identical purpose and benefit. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to call for reservations 1 and 2.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1002	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected. This report deals with sports from the general period of exercise, and it deals with the reduction of social security contributions for young people, the elderly, small businesses, businesses in sparsely populated areas and the exclusion of social security contributions. Social security contributions are the same as what is commonly referred to as employers' contributions. They consist of old-age pension contributions, compliance pension contributions, health insurance contributions, parental insurance contributions and work injury insurance contributions. We are talking about insurance premiums for our welfare insurance, who should pay and not and to what extent. Are these insurance policies general? Is everyone going to pay for this? Reduction of social security contributions for young people was introduced by the previous government. The aim was to reduce unemployment for young people. However, the committee has noted in the past that the reduction in social security contributions did not solve the problem of unemployment for young people. Youth unemployment rose, and long-term youth unemployment rose. The committee pointed out that the reason for the failure of the reform was that most of the resources were spent on those who were already in employment or on those who could find work without any reduction in social security contributions. Only a very small proportion of the reduction was targeted at those who needed it most, i.e. the low-skilled and those who were otherwise far from the labour market. Costs rose, and youth unemployment rose. The committee has noted that there is a great need to invest resources in more effective measures that can make the very young people who are far removed from the labour market more employable. In view of this fact, the Parliament has recently decided to remove the reduction in social security contributions for young people. However, we also have a situation where the number of newly registered places on the labour market is increasing. Unemployment is falling, especially since September – October 2015. Youth unemployment is falling. Long-term unemployment is also declining at present. In February this year there were 26,000 fewer young people in unemployment compared with February last year. There are about 1 000 upper secondary schools that have got a job. That's amazing! Imagine being allowed as politicians to stand and take every youth in hand and say: Good luck in your new job! Youth contracts, awareness-raising, investment in training places in Komvux and in vocational training, and so on, are better efforts to reduce youth unemployment, because they aim to equip young people to be employable for the new jobs created, instead of employers not having to pay the premium for our welfare insurance. Mr President, I would like to In connection with the Parliament's decision on the central government budget for 2016, the special payroll tax was reintroduced for those who have turned 65. It's a priority we're making. If more jobs are created and if more people want to work after the age of 65, it is a prerequisite that there are more jobs. That is a good condition. And there are many employers who want people with experience. But we also have a great challenge in ensuring that people are able to go to 65. Perhaps our committee knows that better than other committees. The exemption for social security contributions for sports clubs should not be extended. The committee has stated on a number of occasions that all non-profit organisations should be treated equally. As far as the legitimacy of the social security system is concerned, the committee has already said that it is important to maintain as far as possible the link between the social security contributions paid and the benefits they intend to fund. Again, it's our welfare insurance. As with any other income, income from sport should be based on entitlement to social security benefits and therefore should result in social security contributions being paid. The exception that now exists for the Swedish Sports Federation should be reviewed. If you do, it'll be the same. That it should be looked at on several occasions throughout the last term of office by the then government parties. We'll say the same thing this time. It is the same answer, even though the government parties have been changed. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would once again like to support the proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1013	Mr President, I would like to In her speech, Phia Andersson mentions social security contributions for young people but also social security contributions for older people. I would like to take a snapshot and stay a little in the discussion on the so-called wage tax for the elderly. The image that there needs to be more people working longer is common to us. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has emphasised this, as has Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson has also pointed out that we need to be more people who work longer. Our picture is the same. Prior to the budget work last autumn, the pensioners' organisations in their referrals to the government stated that they were particularly opposed to the increased wage tax, arguing that older people's access to employment would be drastically reduced. It was also argued that there is a risk that the introduction of a wage tax on older people would adversely affect the ability of older people to continue working after retirement age. In addition, the government's own authority, the Financial Control Agency, has previously stated that a special payroll tax will lead to a reduction in demand for older workers. It goes against the ambition of getting more people to work longer.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1018	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats are happy to see that you can work after 65 years and that there are conditions for that. However, we do not think that work should be subsidised for the employer at all times. It is still the case that the work is equally worthwhile if a 65-year-old with long experience does so. I have read in the motions, including from the Moderates, on the issue of social security contributions and wage taxes for the elderly. M an says we'd get more hands in the care. But it is clear that we have the many who work they after 65 years in the care long before you did the reduction. M an cannot constantly subsidise and provide contributions to employers for them to employ. E n 65 is worth as much in the labour market as a 64-year-old. That is our way of looking at it, and that is why we are making the priority we are doing.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1021	Mr President, I would like to Phia Andersson mentions that the Social Democrats want to provide the conditions for older people to remain in the labour market. I have to say, I'm a little surprised. What the Social Democrats are doing with this proposal is to remove one of the most important prerequisites. Sweden needs the expertise and experience of 40-talists and 50-talists. For example, the skills of engineers, nurses and many other experienced professionals are difficult to find compensation for today. In some sectors, well-trained workers are being shouted for when employees are approaching retirement. For example, there is an acute shortage of qualified staff in health care and school. Here, many older people make a very important contribution to welfare. There have also been many special veteran companies, where retired people offer services of various kinds, which is a valuable addition, not least in the service sector. During the reign of the Alliance, the number of people working after 65 years more than doubled. With this proposal, we encouraged people to continue working with higher job tax deductions and lower wage taxes. We also made it cheaper and easier to start and run a business. This is not something that can be ignored. And I still have not received an answer to my question, which I put in my first reply: how do the Social Democrats view the efforts of older people in the labour market? How will the government get older people to continue working if conditions are reduced? In fact, I did not get an answer to how you in other ways, because you remove the conditions that exist today, want to stimulate people who want and can work longer.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1025	Mr President, I would like to I think I answered that. I believe that older people continue to work in the labour market even if they do not subsidise the employer. That is exactly what we are talking about, that it is the employer who receives a lower fee. When we talk about our welfare insurance, it is always said that it is a contribution if the person who needs money from such insurance receives it. But if you lower the fee for it and let someone not pay the premium, then all of a sudden it is a driving force. It's very strange. If you raise your salary tax, it is the employer who gets a lower fee. I don't understand how it would affect the pensioner who wants to continue working not to go to work. If we strengthen our welfare policies in this country, all together, everyone will be better off.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1029	Mr President, I would like to We have already had a debate recently on social security contributions for young people. Now, as then, I can only say that it was a bad reform with poor accuracy. Most of the money went to those young people who already had a job or were going to get it without incentive money. Only a very small part went to those who really needed it best. When we discussed this at that time in the House, I and many others said that all the government's own expert bodies have found, even during the time the Alliance was in government, that it was a bad reform with poor accuracy. The Council of Finance Ministers noted that lower social security contributions for all young people were an expensive and ineffective measure to reduce youth unemployment. The Board of Financial Control stated that the reduction in social security contributions is likely to have a small impact on employment and that it reduces the cost of employment which would have been largely due anyway. This fact remains now, as it was a few months ago. Even an agency that works practically with unemployment and the labour market, the Employment Service, says that research into the effects of the reduction in employers' contributions on employment generally shows negligible effects on young people. This reform, which cost about SEK 14 billion a year, is estimated to have given about 6,000 to 10,000 new jobs for young people. For the same amount, approximately 32 000 teachers or nurses could have been employed if their average salary was 30 000 kroner a month. It only shows how ineffective this reform was. I find it rather strange that the bourgeois parties still want to maintain a reform which gives such a poor dividend per crown of tax. In addition, the committee noted that there was a great need to invest resources in more effective measures that could make the young people furthest from the labour market more employable. And the government has already taken a number of measures and will take more action for young people. For example, a delegation for greater impact on labour market policies against youth unemployment at local level is set up by the government. And I say now, as I said earlier, that we will invest in trainee jobs aimed at unemployed young people in certain parts of the welfare sector. Trainee jobs are important both to combat youth unemployment and to increase staff density in the welfare sector and thus improve the quality of operations.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1037	Here the exemption for paying employers' contributions for outdoor organisations has been mentioned. Through an increase in the grant of SEK 1314 million per year from 2016 onwards, the Government wants to strengthen the support of outdoor organisations to the school's activities with outdoor days and education, as well as investments in outdoor activities for children and young people, contact with nature, physical activity, diversity and integration. This appropriation may currently be used for the expenditure of state grants to open-air organisations. I think that's good. The sum would be roughly equal to the cost of the exemption for the payment of social security contributions. We will have to see what effects this will have and how this is handled by current organisations. If the outdoor organisations continue to feel that they are disadvantaged, at least we see an opportunity for the government, not now but in the future, to take an initiative to review the current rules. It was something that the committee proposed already in 2010 but which the previous government did not heed. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision and rejection of the motion.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1040	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the organisations involved in the open-air sector for their information. I knew about this. I am also pleased that we are opening up to perhaps do something more in the future if we do not think that that is enough. But I do not quite understand the reasoning on social security contributions for the elderly. What was the big problem with the reduction in social security contributions for young people, which I myself opposed here in the speaker's chair, was precisely that it went to those who had jobs. There were very few people who got jobs through this incentive. But that's exactly what it's supposed to do in the case of older people. After all, it is not the case that it is unemployed people in their 65s who are going to get a new job, but that it is about people who are in the labour market becoming more attractive to keep in the labour market because it becomes a little cheaper. Hopefully they can also get a little higher salary. It is like comparing apples and pears to talk about the reduction in employers' contributions for young people when that is not what is on the table today. It wasn't a question, but why don't you reflect on it, Rickard Persson.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1043	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what to answer to this little reflection from Linus Bylund. We have great challenges ahead of us. It's about migration. It's about the increased ill health. This concerns the construction of housing. This applies to a variety of areas. We cannot have a tax-merger policy for everyone and everything. Why, then, should we reduce taxes on employers? In the future, the elderly will be respected. They are already starting to be in a completely different way than they have been until now. We will have a labour shortage and then need these people with great and long experience. They will be attractive, and no tax-merger policy is needed for employers in this respect.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1047	Mr President, I would like to I see what you mean, Rickard Persson, but I think you're wrong. No one is in favour of reducing employers' contributions for the elderly in order to make it a tax reduction primarily, but it is in order for more people to work. I know that the view of taxes is slightly different. It is believed that if you treasure as much as possible, there will be more money, and if you lower the tax, it will be less money. But that's not the case. You talk about major challenges with integration and so on, Rickard Persson. That's great, and I agree. However, a major challenge ahead is that people have to work longer than today. Then there must be a large package of measures to get it done, preferably on a voluntary basis. But it doesn't feel like the government has a focus on it.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1051	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the last thing you said, Linus Bylund, it is a discussion that we will have to have and that everyone has to deal with in terms of a generally increased retirement age. Let's have two thoughts in our heads at the same time. A debate will be about some not being able to work until 65. Another will be about many people wanting to work after 65 because older people are getting healthier and want to be out in the workplace. I believe that there are great opportunities for them to be, because their workforce will be in demand. For that, there is no need for incentive money for companies in view of the demographics we have today.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1054	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate MJU10 Forest Policy, which is a motion report. There are two announcements in the report. S, MP and V also have two reservations that I support, but in order not to take up the House with more unjustified bourgeois unrest and nonsense, I do not call for their approval. Mr President, I would like to The Paris climate agreement was a real wake-up call for all countries. The foundation is a sustainable society and a community-building with bioeconomy that can replace fossil raw materials with renewable alternatives. It is now time to move from words to action and quickly start work on replacing fossil raw materials with renewable alternatives. Raw materials that are not reproduced in nature damage the climate and will sooner or later run out. We live on a finite planet. Forests and Swedish forestry play an important role here because renewable products from forest raw materials can become Sweden's global contribution to mitigate climate change. But the solution is not to burn the forest instead of the oil. Society needs to raise its eyes and realize that it is not just the energy that should be replaced. To live in the future, humans need good living conditions such as food, clean water, and clean air. The forest can contribute all that. To develop, many more things are needed. Energy is one of those, but it also needs raw materials to make stuff out of. The forest can contribute all that. Wood can and should be used primarily to replace things that are currently made of oil, steel and concrete. Most people know that wood is one of the most climate-smart building materials – except possibly today's conservative construction companies. But we want to change that. Forests can also replace everything we do today with oil, such as clothing and paint, by refining in biorefineries. Mr President, I would like to That is why forests should not be seen solely as a way of solving future energy needs. But the clever thing about products created from forest raw materials is that they can be burned up when they are no longer needed or broken. In the future, we can be sure that we will see brand new products from the forest. There will be many things and climate-smart products that we do not even know today that we are asking for or need. The basis for sustainable development with bioeconomy is to replace fossil raw materials with renewable alternatives. Here the forest has a key role to play. The growing forest can bind all the carbon dioxide we emit through photosynthesis. By exporting goods from the forest that replace fossil products in other countries, we do not only get revenues to the country. We can also influence other countries' climate work – countries that do not have the same access to forests – in a positive way. We can simply export climate benefits. At the same time, politicians, researchers, companies, authorities and forestry need to be better at telling the public about all the efforts that need to be made to affirm all the values of the forest. The important discussions under way in the national forest programme also highlight forest recreational values in completely new ways. There are many ideas about taking advantage of and developing environmental considerations to affirm and take into account the outdoor and cultural values of the forest. What is being done in the national forest programme is to find opportunities and conditions for sustainable, long-term forestry. The bourgeois group would like to get caught in the locks of the former rural minister. The bourgeoisie is a bit afraid of parallel processes. There is particular fear of the review of the Forest Protection Act. Let me mention some other important parallel processes that we should not forget. A process applies to fair conditions for workers in the forest. When I spoke last year about the corresponding report, I mentioned some of the shameful things that the GS union found with regard to the exploitation of migrant workers in Sweden.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1074	The government, under the leadership of the Ministry of Labour, is now working on this. In consultation with the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the supervision of green industries must be improved. In addition, the working conditions of foreign workers should be improved. These workers are important for us to have the forestry and environmental maintenance that we need. Mr President, I would like to Another process is that the government continues to open the road network for heavier vehicles up to 74 tonnes gross weight. The Finnish Transport Agency has submitted a report to the Government in connection with the Government's mission on heavier and longer trucks to reduce climate impact and improve transport opportunities for the forest. It is under the leadership of Anna Johansson, and the ambition is that we should be able to make decisions in the near future. It is also a parallel process. Another parallel process is the supply of skills. The search pressure for the Jägmästars program is dropping, and the high schools of nature are experiencing many problems with getting students. Unfortunately, it is Gy 2011 that is recording here, and I understand that there is no majority to change it. But, Mr President, we need to improve this and agree on providing long-term conditions and strengthening those who want to make their career choices and train themselves in the agricultural upper secondary schools. This government also wants to improve opportunities for venture capital. The state's capital should not be high, but should be distributed to the companies. It's going out to new companies, but that's not the case today. That's why the government presents the bill State and capital. It also presents possibilities for experimental facilities in the forest and seed capital in the early stages. Mr President, I would like to There are many factors that matter to the forest. I hope that we in here and in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture can agree on broad guidelines to make the forest the climate engine that we so badly need. We also need to agree on long-term rules of play in order to have new investments, good forest management and a climate benefit for the benefit of society and for future generations.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1080	Mr President, I would like to The forest, our green gold, which we now have the privilege of debating, has meant a great deal to Sweden throughout history, not least for the creation of our prosperity. The fact that we are today a rich welfare country is much thanks to the values that we have been able to create by using the power of the river, by breaking the ore in the mountain and not least by working the forest. Sometimes in the political debate you can get the impression that this is just history, that forestry and the forest industry no longer means much to the Swedish economy and that the future is only about service production. That is not the reality. In fact, the forest industry has an export value of around 120 billion per year and about 55 000 people are directly employed in the industry. In addition, the industry indirectly creates tens of thousands of additional jobs. According to the Association of Forest Industries, up to 175 000 jobs are based on forests. Looking forward, we see that forestry and the forest industry have a great potential to contribute both new jobs and increased wealth as well as products and materials that contribute to a more sustainable society. For our opportunities to create a bio-based society and a bio-based economy, the forest is absolutely fundamental. Mr President, I would like to What, then, can the forest provide for us in the future? Yeah, I think it's just the imagination that sets the limits. We see how wood construction is increasing and developing, how biorefineries are emerging and how green gold can give us everything from concrete input to textiles, green chemicals and fuels. To take advantage of all the values of the forest, a coherent policy is needed. Today's forestry law, with its two equal goals of the environment and production, lays a good foundation. Since today's legislation was decided in 1993, we have seen some pretty amazing developments in Swedish forestry. The timber supply has increased while taking account of both environmental and social values. This progress has not been forced but has been made on a voluntary basis and has been made possible by legislation which creates the conditions for diversity both in use and in nature. All too often, however, I hear colleagues from other parties ralling in this speaker's chair that we have a forestry policy with freedom without responsibility. I find it provoking n de. Of course, there are forest owners who are misbehaved, of course there is a mistake in use and yes, the damage to the road needs to be reduced. But generally speaking, Sweden's 330 000 forest owners take a very large responsibility by using the forest sustainably. For each tree felled in Sweden, two new plants are planted, and at each felling environmental considerations are taken through edge zones adjacent to water and old trees and dead wood left behind. Not only environmental considerations are taken into account, but social considerations are also taken into account. Thanks to environmental certification in forestry, voluntary provisions are also increasing. All forest owners who choose to certify their forest property undertake to allocate at least 5 per cent of their productive forest land for environmental purposes. Today, the total number of voluntary applications is 1 350 000 hectares of productive forest land. I have to say, Mr President, that I think it is fantastic. Which other entrepreneurs choose to give up as much as 5% of their production completely voluntarily and without compensation? Mr President, I would like to In order to further develop Swedish forestry, we need to build on the successful development and policy that we have seen since the current forestry law came into force. Unfortunately, the present government seems to change its mind. The Alliance initiated a national forest programme to create more jobs with the forest as a base and to create a dialogue process on all the values of the forest – the social, environmental and economic. This was a concrete measure to take Swedish forestry policy forward and to build on the successful work under way. The current government is continuing to work on the programme, and that is a good thing. Less good is that you are unclear about the direction and that the government has lost pace at work. The government is showing a lack of leadership, which means that it has fallen behind. Meetings with the National Programme Council are cancelled, and difficult questions or questions where different views exist seem to sweep under the carpet or avoid. It's troubling. The national forest programme has correctly designed the potential to become an important tool for developing forestry and the forest industry. We in the Alliance want the programme to contribute to the development towards a sustainable society and a growing bio-based economy. It is good that, on the initiative of the Alliance, a majority in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture has therefore supported the proposal to make a declaration on this and to clarify to the government what direction the national forestry programme should take and that the work on the programme should take place just without parallel processes. Unfortunately, Mr President, the government has initiated a parallel process that seriously interferes with the work of the national forestry programme by appointing an investigator to review the Forest Protection Act. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we do not see the need for a review of the Forest Protection Act at the moment, but are concerned that the investigation has been commissioned to investigate a number of issues that could lead to ever-increasing decisions on forestry being made in courts rather than on the individual forest property. This would not benefit Swedish forestry policy. Mr President, I would like to What would also be unfortunate is whether the right to decide on Swedish forestry policy moved from Sweden to the EU and Brussels. I am a true friend of Europe and of the European Union. The EU is extremely important for tackling cross-border challenges, removing barriers to trade, creating free movement and giving Europe a strong voice internationally. However, in order for the EU to be strong, it is important for it to focus precisely on those kinds of issues that cannot be well resolved at national level. Forestry is not such an issue. Forestry in the 28 EU Member States is very different. In fact, only a few EU Member States have forestry to talk about. That the EU's forest area increased by 50 per cent when Sweden and Finland entered the Union, I suppose, says most of it. The government must continue to defend our national decision-making rights over forestry issues, and I am therefore pleased that the committee wishes to endorse the moderate request to make a statement to the government on this very subject. Decisions on Swedish forestry should not be made in Brussels but by Sweden's 330 000 forest owners within the framework of the legislation that we have in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to One work that must be constantly ongoing and prioritised is the work on regulatory simplification. That is why I would like to support reservation 4. In this reservation, we from the Alliance highlight the need for further simplification work. We want clear objectives and concrete measures. Unfortunately, we do not see any of this on the part of the government, but rather the government's review of the Forest Protection Act risks leading to increased regulatory uncertainty and more bureaucracy. That's the wrong way to go. Moderate forestry policy is characterised by high ambitions in terms of both the environment and production and by a conviction that the ambitions are best achieved through a policy of trust and freedom under the responsibility of Sweden's forest owners.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1100	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for your speech. I had the privilege of hearing Johan Hultberg last week when we debated biodiversity. Now that I hear him debating the forest, I feel like it's hacking a little. Last week, in terms of biodiversity, he felt that many efforts were needed in many different areas to enhance biodiversity. However, in the forestry debate it appears that this is not the case in the case of forests. Otherwise it feels as if the Moderates are most worried and a little concerned. It may have to do with losing government power and now having to deal with it. Johan Hultberg suggests that many of the national programme councils have been moved forward or cancelled. I can tell Johan Hultberg that I think I have been to five programme councils, but I have never seen Johan Hultberg on any of them. So there must be something else that has also been missed, I think. But there are several parallel processes going on so that we can continue to be able to e xport the forest. We must have decent working conditions. We need transport that works. We need trained people to work in the woods. Is it also such parallel processes that Johan Hultberg thinks should not be included in the national forest programme? Those participating in the national forestry programme think that these issues are very important.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1105	Mr President, I would like to Of course, not all policy objectives can be achieved with just one tool. The national forest programme aims to take a comprehensive approach to many issues and, based on the work done in the national forest programme, to move forward with concrete measures. The background to the national forest programme is the work we did in the Environmental Objectives Committee and the bill that the government presented on biodiversity and ecosystem services, which we debated last week. Last week, we sent a clear call to the government to actually move forward with the concrete measures contained in that strategy to achieve the biodiversity objectives that we have agreed in this House. I would like to repeat that call. Indeed, many measures are needed to improve environmental protection in forestry and to improve biodiversity overall. The only question is whether we can force greater diversity in forestry and promote the best environmental considerations through legislation. I'm not sure. I believe that a model, based on freedom under responsibility and a forestry policy that lays a foundation but does not in detail govern the individual forester, is the best model and the best way forward. There is quite a lot of empirical evidence to support that. Since the current Forestry Act was launched in 1993, environmental considerations in forestry have taken major and important steps forward. We are now seeing how forest owners voluntarily set aside huge areas of productive forest land precisely because they want to contribute to the work of biodiversity and the preservation of valuable environments. Now that the government is going forward with a review of the Forest Protection Act, which risks taking us to the same situation that we debated last week – i.e. where matters are to be decided in court – I am very concerned.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1111	Mr President, I would like to Well, I guess the Moderates are most concerned. I'm concerned, too. There is a generational shift among forest owners. Fewer forest owners are like the old man with Helly Hansen - sweater, rubber boots and Husqvarna chainsaw in his hand, who lived on his property and handled it exemplaryly. Many inherit real estate. Many sell them on. A lot of people don't live on their property and don't know it very well. In many cases they sell logging rights to companies, which in turn sell them on. Otherwise, some buyer might buy it up and bring in an entrepreneur. Is it not reasonable, then, to clarify the division of responsibilities, precisely for the sake of the individual forest owner, so that the individual forest owner can be sure not to go there if the entrepreneur breaks his land? Or that it is clear what is to be included in a procurement and what is the penalty value that the damage caused by driving is actually related to? Now there is much evidence that the national forestry programme will be completed long before the investigation into forest management legislation is completed. It has now been moved forward until the last of March 2017. But these parts, and who really has the right to speak, are important issues to investigate and clarify, are they not? Especially for forest owners, it is important to know who is guilty if something should happen. Isn't that right, Johan Hultberg?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1115	Mr President, I would like to It is quite honoured that Isak From is trying to defend the investigation of the Forest Protection Act. In all honesty, I do not believe for a second that the Social Democrats really wanted that review. I am quite convinced that this is a concession because the Green Party is now in the government. The fact that it first needed a year to arrive at which investigative directives would apply and then a number of months to agree on who would be given the task of implementing it testifies to the fact that the government parties are having an extremely difficult time reaching agreement. I'm really concerned, Isak From. One of the things I'm concerned about is who's in charge. Who controls the direction, and what does the government want? It's very unclear. You get different answers depending on which minister you ask. Had it been Isak From and the Social Democrats who ruled over Swedish forestry policy, I really don't think we would have had much to debate about. I believe that we have a fairly large consensus between moderates and social democrats that forests are important to Sweden and that we must have a forestry policy with a balance between the environment and production, so that we achieve both the goals of full employment and our high-level environmental objectives. But now we have an environmental party that is keen to go in and regulate in detail and has great distrust of Sweden's forest owners. This concerns me when the review of the Forest Protection Act is under way. What also worries me is that the government's pace makes a snail appear to be a sprinter. I do not know how many times we in this House have debated the issue of longer and heavier vehicles, but only now does the government act, and then with a half-way proposal that only allows for greater weight but no longer vehicles, which is worrying. Now there are also proposals for a kilometre tax, which would have been a huge setback and a huge increase in costs for the Swedish forest industry. Do we think that we can increase exports by making it more expensive to bring products onto the market?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1121	Mr President, I would like to You defiant pine tree, stretching towards the sky your pain top, I feel your proud pursuit, your anticipating strong hope. I would first of all like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1, the overall direction of forestry policy, and reservation No 8, the implementation of the EU Nature Protection Directive. But of course we support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats. Gustaf Fröding well illustrates in the poem In the forest Swedes' deep-rooted relation to the forest. The forest is part of our national identity. The Swedish forest is a matter for the whole of Sweden. Forestry is one of our most important industries and is an important link in the chain that holds together the whole country. From a national perspective, a world-class forest industry is an important cornerstone of the Swedish economy. Ultimately, this industry is based on a good supply of raw materials of the highest quality. At the same time, forests are important in many more ways than supplying raw materials to the forest industry, not least in terms of biodiversity, cultural heritage, tourism and outdoor life. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to preserve and develop Swedish forestry, but then it must be economically profitable to grow the forest in the future. We are convinced that the Swedish forestry model with two overall and equal forest policy objectives – the environmental objective and the production target – is the approach that will continue to guarantee economically viable and environmentally friendly Swedish forestry. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the work on the national forest programme continues and that the government avoids continuing to impair the conditions of forest owners and forestry. Half of Sweden's forests are owned by family forest farmers who provide the natural diversity in forestry that we strive for. We in the Swedish Democrats believe in the right to own, use and control their own forest. That is what we think best motivates and stimulates forest owners to develop their forestry practices in the best way possible. Mr President, I would like to The definition of protected forest is something to be discussed. For us, forests that are valuable to nature and culture can be protected in different ways. This could be a matter of formal protection or more informal, such as the voluntary provisions made by many forest owners. No one would deny that nature reserves, for example, contribute to a great variety of species. But even left small biotopes, saved dead and lonely trees, edge zones and forested marshes are important natural forest elements for species richness. The number of species does not increase linearly with the size of the protected area. At the same time, we believe that there is a problem with the Swedish definition of protected forest not allowing suitable comparisons with the area protected in many other countries. In such comparisons, Sweden tends to show significantly lower values than are true. You can go to the statistics according to Skogsstyrelsen. As far as formal provisions are concerned, precisely what the government is talking about, that is about 7% of the forest land. In the case of voluntary provisions, 4% is approaching. As far as the general considerations are concerned, this is 6%. In addition, there is the unproductive forest land, which is currently around 14% and is not legally allowed to be harvested. You can sum up those numbers. 31 per cent of the Swedish forest area is then protected by various forms of voluntary or formal protection. This is something that I think we need to take care of. Mr President, I would like to Key biotopes are forest areas with very high natural values. These areas are important for the survival of disadvantaged or threatened species. We have no objection to the importance of these areas. On the other hand, we do not have a clear and transparent reasoning on the consequences of the key biotopes concept for individual landowners. Landowners who today have a key biotope identified on their land may find themselves in a situation where it becomes impossible to sell timber. Moreover, they are without any financial compensation. The matter is that although the Swedish Forest Board does not decide to create a formal protection for a possible key biotope, it remains in the list of key biotopes. New positions on possible key biotopes are very rarely made, and procedures for removing them from the register are lacking. This means that the area that no longer exhibits sufficiently interesting natural values or where, for example, the habitat is over-represented among existing key biotopes remains protected. There is a major shortage of work that affects individual landowners economically but also risks affecting the interest of many forest owners in carrying out ambitious nature conservation work. Mr President, I would like to The use of forests must not threaten parts of Swedish cultural heritage. Against this background, we look with concern at the data showing that almost half of the recorded ancient and cultural remains have been affected or damaged in different degrees in terms of forestry. In order to overcome these abuses, we believe that clear procedures, training and information are needed throughout the logging chain. Forestry must be involved and involved in the various measures needed to reduce this damage. Against this background, we want the Swedish Forest Agency to expand its advice in forestry on nature and cultural conservation measures. In order to achieve continued success, we are also convinced that you need to know where the various cultural remains are in the forest landscape. The ancient remains are not easy to find. For an untrained eye, it can be completely impossible. That is why modern digital opportunities can be used, for example. With modern IT tools, already known and registered ancient and cultural remains can easily be transferred to forestry plans and to forest machinery navigation equipment. Mr President, I would like to There are some other things to be desired when it comes to the implementation of the EU's so-called conservation directive in Sweden and how Sweden has chosen to report this to the EU. The reporting has mainly been handled by Artdatabanken and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and without the necessary transparency from others who may have an interest in knowing more about the nature conservation work carried out in the forest and its importance for endangered species and habitats. Given that there are ambiguities in accounting and reporting, we do not consider it appropriate to use this to evaluate either the environmental objective of living forests in general or whether certain habitats in Sweden have a favourable status or not. We should set conservation targets based on our own definitions in Sweden of nature types. And this is about the nature conservation work carried out on the basis of our own goals. The existing definitions of the EU habitat should then be ignored. Mr President, I would like to Work is currently under way in the EU to develop a new forestry strategy. We in the Swedish Democrats are concerned that such a strategy may be the first step towards a future common forestry policy within the EU, which could very likely have significant negative consequences for Sweden and for the Swedish forestry model. The conditions for implementing a national forestry policy are already affected by several EU directives and regulations affecting forestry. If the EU has an increasing influence on these issues, it will lead to a greater focus on detail management and additional administrative and bureaucratic barriers. In our opinion, Sweden must continue to protect national decision-making rights. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to take advantage of the interests of forest owners so that forestry can be carried out all over the country. These include reduced taxes on fuel for agricultural and forestry machinery, but also reduced red tape on forest management and logging. Such a policy makes forests grow while increasing the contribution of forestry to entrepreneurship and employment in rural areas. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden is a whole, and we believe that what is good for the countryside is good for the whole country. The city and the countryside need each other. We also believe that viable forestry is a prerequisite for living rural areas. Rural conditions and green industries are therefore at the heart of our pro-Sweden policy.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1144	Mr President, I would like to Do you have any forest in your heaven, you Gud, to go in a fine evening A tuck that old forest, you know with butter soup and cantarelle. This is the introduction to the poem Evening Bean by the poet Gunnar Ehnes, who can often be read in the obituaries in our newspapers. The fact that those lines are often included when we say goodbye to our loved ones is for me a sign of how important the forest is to many. It is one of those old woods to walk in, with different trees of different ages and with paths, mushroom places, riding paths, clearings and rippling streams. Yes, it is the one that many of us appreciate and feel so good about staying in. We hope that it will also be found in Gud's heaven. Mr President, I would like to Last Friday I debated forests in P4 Värmland. We talked about forest legislation and the importance of forests for recreation and outdoor life. The starting point for the debate was that it is now four years since the residents of Storfors in eastern Värmland lost their forest and their cantarelle spots. It was also the struggle for the semi-urban forest in Storfors that became the starting point for DN-journalist Zaremba's series – the forest we inherited – that in spring 2012 sparked the forest debate in Sweden. For the residents of Storfors, it became an expensive experience that what is stated in the Forest Protection Act that social values should be protected are only empty words, as is stated in the industry's own-controlled environmental certification FSC and PEFC. In reality, the forest companies do not even have to tell those who use the forest that it will go away, that the paths, streams, mushroom sites next week will turn into a bare house. Mr President, I would like to When the residents of Storfors could not persuade the environmentally certified owner Bergvik's forest to save the forest, they tried to get them to do a clean felling. Nor did Bergvik want to do that. For Bergvik and many other forest owners, clean forestry was not an option. But, fortunately, some things have happened since 2012 with regard to forestry methods. When Skogstyrelsen recently sent out a survey to the municipalities of the country about how they use the municipally owned forests, it turned out that 40 per cent used or wanted to use their forests cleanly. One example is the municipality of Gothenburg, which uses all its 5,000 hectares of non-aggressive methods. Even among private forest owners, interest in more modern and sustainable forestry practices is growing. When Skogstyrelsen in Värmland arranged a day of study about cleanliness in the field a few months ago they could not accept all forest owners who were interested. It is good that all the districts of the Swedish Forest Agency have been given a special assignment to inform about alternative farming methods. It is clear that more resources are needed to meet the demand of forest owners, and I think it would also be good to introduce financial support for interested forest owners, just as in the past there has been all kinds of support, for example for those who want to replant their fields with spruce plants. More targeted action is also needed against forest entrepreneurs. Today, only 9% of forest owners themselves make fellings in their forests. The rest of us are using help, and I and many people with me know how difficult it is to find an entrepreneur who can do anything other than cut. Mr President, I would like to Using other forestry methods is an important part of increasing environmental concerns in forests. There are many other things that must also be done. The Environmental Protection Agency writes in its in-depth evaluation of the environmental objectives, which came last autumn, that there are major shortcomings in today's forestry. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency writes: Forests with high natural values, such as key biotopes and other core values, are harvested or at risk of being harvested. Excessive damage to biotopes and watercourses related to fellings and damage levels of ancient and cultural remains remain high. There is a shortage of areas of old forest with maintained forest continuity, as well as of multi-layered forests and the availability of dead wood of different qualities and in different environments. Policy instruments that govern with a view to the environmental objective Living forests, better environmental protection for fellings, increased application of non-slip farming methods and long-term and cost-effective protection of forests are proposed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It is good that the government listens to our authority and does just that. The bourgeois opposition and the Swedish democrats should do the same. Mr President, I would like to The climate issue has begun to be used as an argument that we must have an even more intensive forestry with fertilisation, stronger soil preparation and a higher yield. Even the too many species so important roots and stumps are going out of the forest, because there are more and more fellings of increasingly younger trees that are going to save us from climate change – at least us in Sweden. How the rest of the world, the countries that have no forest, should do so, one might ask. But here in Sweden, one of our environmental goals, the objective B bordered climate impact, has started to be used as an argument for other environmental goals, such as our goals Living forests, A rich plant and animal life and M piling wetlands are no longer as important. But it won't last. It does not stand to try to solve a problem by creating new ones. It is important to bear in mind what is also included in the definition of our climate objective, which is based on the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. It says that the objective should be achieved in such a way and at such a pace as to preserve biodiversity. It's important to remember. Mr President, I would like to Our intensive forestry has already caused a lot of problems. Ruined forest areas, wetlands and swamp forests, the introduction of the ontorta pine and hormoslyr are just a few examples. I am pleased that we now have a government that wants to protect our last old forests, to increase environmental concerns in forestry and to promote alternative forestry methods. I and the Green Party also welcome the work of the national forestry programme. We look forward to representatives from forest owners, environmental organisations, outdoor life and others taking a joint approach to designing a more varied forest management with greater consideration of nature. It is also good that there is now a legal review of the Forest Protection Act. Court of Appeal Lawman Charlotta Riberdahl has been tasked with proposing clarification of the legislation on three points. It is about who or who is responsible for a felling, who is to be able to appeal against a felling and whether it should be punishable to provide incorrect information. That's three for me all natural things to set things straight. Finally, Mr President, forestry issues and policies must be constantly under discussion and change. There are always subjects that should be discussed more and reasons that argue for a change in forest management. The focus of the discussion has shifted through time and influenced forestry policy and law. Today's discussion on forests is about climate, about social values, about alternatives to kalhyggesbruk and about meeting Swedish and international environmental goals. Policies need to be adapted to these challenges.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1163	Mr President, I would like to I should like to thank Stina Bergström for her speech. Stina mentioned a number of things about continuity forestry, including that the Environmental Party or Stina Bergström wants to support continuity forestry in some way. If we look at SLU's surveys, we see that continuity forestry has about 40 percent lower returns. What kind of support does Stina Bergström want to see? What's it gonna look like? And why should support be needed? Is it the case that continuity forestry cannot stand on its own feet, or what is it you want to achieve? It would be interesting if Stina Bergström would explain a little more. My second question concerns the government's review of forestry legislation. One can discuss whether it is dangerous or not, but I had a lot to do with it, and I think many with me and especially the forest owners did it, when one should go in and start looking at the forestry legislation and who should be able to appeal and then start talking about the Aarhus Convention. It is quite unreasonable, for example, for environmental organisations to be given the right of appeal in relation to forest fellings in this case. That is what the Swedish Democrats think, and I personally am directly reprehensible. The question will then be: Who do Stina Bergström sees as having reason to appeal?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1167	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that when it comes to whether or not clean forestry would produce a lower economic return in the long term, there is research showing different figures. But I can imagine that there is something you need to look at more. When it comes to support for decent forestry methods, there is money and a commission for the Swedish Forest Board to have in each district a person who is responsible for this and who thus informs and has study days for interested forest owners. I've been out in some of the districts talking about this, and we also see that there is a need for more resources for this so that you can have more information, because interest is growing. I can understand that when you discuss returns, there are forest owners who feel that they do not really dare to invest. Since an ambition from both previous environmental goals preparations and our government has been to increase the proportion of continuity forest use, one way can be some kind of carrot – I don't really know how the support should be designed – for those who are interested. It is just as in the past there has been support for more kalehyggesbruk. Then the forest owners have received support for it. As regards the legal review of the Forest Protection Act, the courts in the north have given environmental organisations the right to appeal against a decision on felling of mountain forests. I think I'll have to continue the discussion in the next round.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1171	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. As a party, the Swedish Democrats have no problem with how to use the forest. According to the Forest Conservation Act, there are really no problems if forest owners want to carry out continuous forestry. It is interesting when you can develop the different models of forestry. But the question arises when one speaks unilaterally that this is the solution to everything. I really don't think so. If we are to have a viable and competitive Swedish forestry, we will see that form of horticulture in the future as well. It is clear from the research – SLU and Skogforsk – that the return is about 40 percent lower. With developed methods you can surely see the other parts. Stina Bergström mentions that this is an alternative. Possibly it is an alternative instead of creating more nature reserves. I bet you do. Otherwise, it's not interesting. This applies especially to the Government's ambition to exempt huge areas of new forestry land, about one and a half million hectares. I would rather see the possibility of voluntary forestry being opened up.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1176	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I said I see continuity forestry as the solution to everything. I said it's important to continue to protect the forest. It is not that I see continuity forestry as an alternative to felling forests that are absolutely to be left behind. In surveys of forest owners, about 40 percent of them have their forests for reasons other than getting as much money as possible. It could be for outdoor life. Hunting becomes even more important and can be a reason why they buy forest shifts. Or they want to keep the forest. They don't want the scallops. Then the solution is to harvest so that you take out wood, pulpwood, and have left trees. I want to continue to answer the question I received earlier, and I assume that Anders Forsberg is still interested in the Aarhus Convention and the right to appeal. Environmental organisations have been given the right to appeal against decisions that the Swedish Forest Agency has taken to harvest mountain forests. There was a legal dispute that went on for many years and that ultimately gave the environmental organisation the right to that it was not right to harvest the forest. Now one should look at whether it is in accordance with the Aarhus Convention that environmental organisations and the public should have the right to appeal when the Swedish Forest Board does not make decisions. If you submit a logging notification and the Swedish Forest Agency does not make a decision, there is no decision to appeal. I think it's an important part of getting things sorted out.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1180	Mr President, I would like to Stina Bergström talked a lot in her speech about the greenery. Mr President, I was about to get a clean head when I listened to Stina Bergström because I wanted to rip my hair. The description that Stina Bergström gives of Swedish forestry in this debate and gave last week when we discussed biodiversity and nature conservation is alien to reality. Stina Bergström then spoke of devastation. Today, it sounds like forest owners do not take any account and that there are no forest owners who listen to the neighbours' views when planning their forestry and so on. I do not recognize that picture, and I am concerned about that description of forestry policy. I have some concrete questions, Stina Bergström. You mentioned in your speech that the Green Party wants to provide financial support for continuity forestry. Then it would have been interesting if Stina Bergström could initially give a definition of what should be supported. According to Stina Bergström, what is continuity forestry? Is that dimensional chopping? Is that a hatch? Is it bleeding? What is continuity forestry or clean forestry? Bergström has used both concepts, which is why I am a little confused. Is this government policy? Is it the policy of the Environmental Party, Stina Bergström or the Government to support individual types of forestry practices? Mr President, I would like to When we introduced the current forestry policy, we left a policy that previously contained regulations and detailed requirements for forest owners in favour of a model in which forest owners are to a greater extent allowed to decide their own use on the basis of a framework legislation. Now the Green Party once again seems to want more detailed legislation in which we in this House should even have opinions on what farming method the forest owner should use and provide financial support for it. What are the Green Party's views? Is more detailed regulation the way forward?
i-3j6Nn1N4b4xEP1kei32oQJ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the questions! If Johan Hultberg had listened to the last line change he had heard that Anders Forsberg and I talked a lot about how I think about the support. I replied that I cannot exactly say how it should be designed. Our government has said that it wants to see more forestry methods. It is the ambition of both the Environmental Party and the Government that there should not only be one way to farm the forest in Sweden, but there should be more. It is absolutely right that Johan Hultberg says that there are several different forms of clean forestry. It's making it a little easy for you to just say clean forestry. There are many methods, and there are those who are really bad and those who are better. As I said in the last shift, there is support for the Swedish Forest Agency to carry out information. I think that aid should be extended to support forest owners who are interested. But I do not want to say how the support should be designed in detail. Johan Hultberg said that he was concerned about my description of reality. There are many who are concerned that they see the same reality as I do. I don't know if Johan Hultberg has read Zaremba's book, but for many it was probably a wake-up call when he was out in Sweden talking to those who live in that reality in the middle of intensive forestry. I myself have lived in the country for over 30 years, and I have seen how forestry has changed. There's something that worries me a lot.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1190	Mr President, I would like to Yes, forestry has changed. I would like to say that forestry has changed for the better. Today, the size of the huts is much smaller. Today, environmental considerations in forestry are much greater. Today, voluntary provisions are vastly larger. Today, the forest protected by nature reserves, national parks or other formal methods is also much larger. Most of the developments are positive. Consideration in use is increasing. There is more dead wood in the forests, and there is an increased mixture of leaves. There's more of old forest and so on. Of course there are still problems, and of course mistakes are still being made. But the debate in this House must be about how to make forestry even better. I do not think that it is through increased detailed regulation or that we in this House know best how Sweden's 330 000 forest owners will shape their use. Extreme care should be taken to identify different forestry methods as better or worse. That is why there should be a framework legislation that gives freedom for Stina Bergström, me and everyone else who has or would like to have a forest property to design our use. I believe that it is precisely when we have diversity in use that we also get diversity in nature, and I think it is great that the Swedish Forest Board informs and spreads knowledge about different forestry methods – the Lübeck model or traditional horticulture. We need to spread knowledge of all models and methods so that foresters can make wise, informed decisions and design their use in the best possible way from both the production and environmental perspective. But I am frankly concerned, Mr President, that we have a party in the Swedish Parliament and in the Swedish Government that wants to regulate Swedish forestry in detail. That is precisely what led the development wrong. My question to Stina Bergström is therefore whether it is the government's policy to support individual forestry methods.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1195	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Johan Hultberg has been amusing himself to call various forest contractors and ask them what kind of forestry they can offer. I've done it myself, and most people say: "Of course you should harvest your forests with woodlands. It is the most economic and the best and most effective way. That's what you're supposed to do. As a forest owner, therefore, information about different forestry methods is not so easy, and just as I said in my speech, today very few forest owners themselves use their forests. When it comes to logging and soil preparation, only 9% do so themselves. The Forest Board has this mission. It's great that you work with it and have been working on it even more since 2012, where I started in my speech. I see no difficulty in giving support to this in any way that we have support for other things that we think we want to promote – and just as we have had support in the past for those who want to convert their forests from continuum forestry to woodland use. That's what history has been like. It is true that the environmental vision in the forest has increased from 19 93 when we got the big forestry law. But we have not reached where we hoped and thought we would reach when we received the new law. Today we have 3.7 per cent forest that is protected, that has long-term protection, and we will reach 17 per cent or 20 per cent according to the parliamentary decision. So we have a good piece to go. It's the same with dead wood. It is good that dead wood in the forest increases from 2.8 to 3.9 percent, but a hundred years ago we had 20 percent. It is clear that it affects biodiversity in the forest very much. We need to get even higher.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1201	Mr President, I would like to As you note, I am not Eskil Erlandsson. Unfortunately, he was prevented, but I am happy to take this debate in his place. I'm very happy to talk about forest. 中 Bokskogen, our most important raw material, explains the expression Skåne's green mine. It's all being exploited and processed out of the book, except for the trick, someone has said. ..................................................... The quote comes from the chemical company Perstorp's company brochure from 1946. The foundation of this now global chemical group – which I was privileged to visit on Monday – is the forest and its raw materials, based on which plastic and various chemicals were extracted at the start of the company. When I stood in this debate a year ago, I spoke about the green carbon atom, that is, agricultural and forestry raw materials, and that the green carbon atom should be the building block of our society. The 1946 quote shows that we have done it, and we can do it again. The forest can once again become Sweden's green gold. But that does not happen by itself, Mr President. In order to achieve this transition to a society based on the green carbon atom, two things are needed. Firstly, Mr President, we need policies that create long-term conditions for innovation, product development and production of products based on forests – textiles, building materials, biofuels and chemistry. To a large extent, it is the EU that creates the framework for the long-term rules on these issues, and in the coming years several major processes are taking place concerning the forest and its products. These include forestry strategy, the circular economy, sustainability criteria for solid fuels and state aid rules for bioenergy. In these processes, it is of the utmost importance that the regulations are as good as possible and that the conditions for Swedish forestry and the use of Swedish forest raw materials do not deteriorate. It is therefore very important that the Riksdag now makes a clear position for the Swedish Government to act forcefully in the EU so that new regulations and, above all, the forestry strategy under development should not limit Sweden's power over its own forests. The second thing that is needed for a transition to a bio-based society, Mr President, is to create good conditions for Swedish forest owners to contribute with the raw material that our future society needs. In this work, the national forestry programme plays a very important role. During the Centre Party's time in the government, we initiated the vision of the Forest Kingdom, a vision that has been the basis for the work on a national forest programme that the government is now moving forward with. The National Forest Programme is an important platform for dialogue on how forests and their value chain can form the backbone of a bio-based social economy and how forests can contribute to more jobs and growth in rural areas across the country. But the national forest programme should also address target conflicts and facilitate balance, because even if Swedish forest owners do a good job in terms of consideration and nature conservation, there are absolutely challenges that we need to address. That is why we believe it is very important that work on developing a national forest programme and the dialogue therein should not be carried out by other investigations or parallel reviews. If the dialogue process is to be meaningful, all aspects of forests must be addressed within the framework of the national forest programme. It should not be circumvented by parallel investigations or processes. When we stood here a year ago, many forest owners were worried about what would happen to the review of the Forest Protection Act announced by the government. After a long wait, the investigation is now underway, but the concern has not diminished. The investigator shall, among other things, look at the division of responsibilities when registering for felling and the right of appeal and the possibility for interest organisations to appeal against decisions in the Forest Protection Act. In my speech on nature conservation last week, I talked about how the long-term functioning of nature conservation requires legitimacy in the decisions and acceptance of those concerned. This applies not least to the forest. For me as a center party, ownership and the right to use are fundamental principles and guiding the functioning of a society. What you own, you also want to care for. The fact that forestry policy is based on freedom under responsibility is therefore a strength, in my view, and the Center Party. I am afraid that the investigation set up by the government risks further restricting the right to property and the right to use. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the government is rounding up the dialogue processes under way in the national forestry programme and continuing this investigation is therefore very unfortunate. I am pleased that the committee is taking a position that the work of the national forestry programme should be based on the two equal objectives and that no parallel processes should take place. Mr President, I would like to Another important way to create conditions for a strong forest industry is to reduce the regulatory burden for Swedish forest owners rather than to increase it. In my view and in the view of the Centre Party, one objective should be to reduce, as far as possible, the regulatory burden on all entrepreneurship, but not least on the small-scale, which is currently burdened by rules and hassles. It is a work that must be carried out on an ongoing basis, including the coordination of the work of authorities in order to minimise duplication as far as possible. The authorities here have an important role to play in supporting and encouraging those people who dare to invest in their entrepreneurship. One aspect of this is that basic data on the company and its activities should only be provided in one place to significantly minimise the administrative burden on companies and facilitate contact with the authorities. Of course, I support the committee's proposal for a decision on all points, with the exception of the points on which the Center Party has reservations, but for time to come, I am in favour of the Alliance's reservation 4 and the Center Party's reservation 5. Mr President, I would like to Let the fossil-based society become a parenthesis in our history, and let us instead create the conditions for the transition to a society based on the green carbon atom of our forest through continued ownership of forest issues, through freedom under responsibility as a guiding principle and through less hassle for forest entrepreneurs!
i-64SeEoLD1f4puF8yBs8Smv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kristina Yngwe, for your speech. Kristina Yngwe sounds very hopeful when it comes to the forest, the green gold. However, in the motions and in the majority text of the national forest programme, it is stated that the focus of the forest programme should include economic, social and environmental values and aim to ensure that the forest and its value chain further contribute to the development towards a sustainable society and a growing bio-based economy. That is reasonable and something on which we fully agree. But we Social Democrats also think it is important to be able to take part in the national forestry programme's work on education, research, sustainable jobs, entrepreneurship and transport. When you hear Kristina Yngwe, it almost seems that these are parallel processes that in no way should occur. Does it feel difficult, Kristina Yngwe, that the national forest programme now undergoes some innovation and raises other important issues for the forest?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1228	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Isak From. Of course, there are absolutely no disadvantages at all to the fact that we are having a discussion on important issues relating to education, labour law and the working environment, as Isak From mentioned earlier. But setting up an investigation can cause concern among forest owners around the country. That means quite a lot of influence when part of the process is going on. As I said, I would much rather have a discussion on the issues for which there are questions about the forestry law and the environmental work that needs to be done. There are things that need to be worked on, absolutely. However, this should be done within the framework of the national dialogue process rather than creating concern and uncertainty. How will these groups be able to sit and discuss when they do not know whether there will be a permit test for certain forest owners in the future? There are very many around the country who now feel a huge uncertainty about whether they will be able to grow their forest. At the same time, there is a national dialogue group to discuss the future of forests. Of course it is very worrying to have such a process. It's nice that Isak From requested a reply. In fact, I have a few questions for the Social Democrats. Isak From mentioned in his introduction another parallel process, the State and capital, which is a bill that has been presented. There they lift away, among other things, Inland innovation, which I assume many people in Isak From's countryside are interested in. Inland innovation has been important for developing entrepreneurship, certainly also in green industries. I would like to ask how Isak From views it.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1234	Mr President, I would like to If there are new questions, I assume that the President will give me the opportunity to answer them. It asked a question about Fondinvest and Inlandsinnovation. It seems that the Center Party wants to protect Maud Olofsson's baby more and save the money. It was about that. The Swedish National Audit Office, Entrepreneurs, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and many others have criticised us politicians for the fact that state capital has not been used. I have met many forest owners and entrepreneurs in Västerbotten who were hopeful when Inlandsinnovation was launched. None of them have been able to take part in a crown from Inland innovation. What we are doing now is opening up to more people to take part in state venture capital. More start-ups throughout the country should be able to access it. There's the big difference. I hope the Center Party lets go of the prestige. I also hope that the Center Party, together with us, will be able to make a serious effort to look at upper secondary school and nature-use upper secondary schools. Why are there so few applicants? Our young people are wise. They want several ways out. They don't want any lock-in effects. Can we settle and build faith in upper secondary school so that more young people dare to apply for the national programmes of the national high schools of nature? Then we can get educated young people who want to take the step and make efforts in agriculture and forestry. Can we make a deal with the Center Party without old locks in the Alliance?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1239	Mr President, I would like to I think it is interesting that Isak From is addressing this issue with the School of Agricultural Upper Secondary School. A reform in this area is currently under preparation. Just a week ago, I put the question to the Minister for High School on how to look at the importance of agricultural schools for rural development, mainly with a focus on hunting and fishing, for which a great many people are very concerned. I haven't received a single answer from the government. The answer came yesterday, but you don't want to say whether you think it's important or not. If you do not have an attitude to the importance of natural sciences for the future, perhaps it is good that the government makes a point of view before we can take a stand. I apologise for being so out of practice that I did not ask my question in the last line-up, because the honourable Member is not able to reply. But we can see it as a cliffhanger because this is a question that the government has not wanted to answer either. I hope that the government will come up with an answer soon when we see how the Social Democrats stand. For the forest it has been very important to have a forest account for a long time. It is long rotation times that may require a different approach to forest revenue than in other industries. Now it has been suggested in an investigation to remove the forest account. It's me and the Center Party very worried about. It is unclear how the Social Democrats and the government take the view on this issue. I do not expect an answer here, but I look forward to the Social Democrats being clear on how they view the future of the forest account.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1243	Mr President, I would like to The elk lives there. The bear and the lynx live there too. There grows lingonberries, blueberries, chanterelles and sheep's shoes. We walk there, we jog there, we camp there, we play there with the children. Visitors from all over the world are spending more and more time there. I am, of course, talking about the forest, the forest that we all love so much. I agree with what Anders Forsberg said earlier when he quoted Gustaf Fröding, that the forest is part of the Swedish people's soul. At the same time, we also want the forest to be a source of biofuels, paper, planks for building houses and a variety of other smart products in the future that all will be made of wood fibre from the forest. It's about getting all this together. According to current law, the Forest Protection Act, production must weigh as much as environmental considerations. I would argue that this is not the case today. In Sweden we have a one-sided focus on production. The environment always comes second, and so does social considerations. There are quite a few concrete examples of this. I think that Stina Bergström from the Green Party gave many concrete examples. It is about completely unique value cores being destroyed and about the Swedish Forest Board's own review a couple of years ago. It was then noted that almost 40% of the fellings carried out were not approved. On very few occasions there was some kind of sanction. People are very rarely involved when a forest is felled even though, according to the Environmental Code, we have requirements for consultation that should include forestry. Stina Bergström gave us a concrete example from Storfors in Värmland. When people came back after the summer, the forest was simply gone. I also believe that this is the result of a concrete policy. The former bourgeois government had a narrow focus on increased production. We have also been increasingly fed by intensive crops as a result. We have increased fertilization. We have received strange tree species, ditching and stumping in our forests. This is not good for biodiversity. It is not good for the climate; it is said that the forest should bind more carbon dioxide. And I don't think anyone who's gone out into a forest affected by this intense production thrives there. There is simply much to do. I believe that one of the basic problems is the principles of forestry today. It has been formulated as freedom under responsibility. I believe that one cannot have such a principle. I think that Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party was onto something when she spoke quite unilaterally about private ownership. Just because you own a forest doesn't give you the right to handle it anyway, you should remember. In which other policy areas do we apply the principle of freedom under responsibility? We would never do that in traffic. We would never do that in energy policy or in housing. But precisely when it comes to forestry policy, it is freedom under responsibility that should prevail. It is good that the Forest Protection Act is now being revised, although I have to say that it has taken a very long time to get there. I hope that this process will lead to better wording that will facilitate more gentle forestry practices. Overall, I hope that consideration in the management of our forest can be strengthened with a new forestry law. I also think that good steps have been taken with regard to the budget, which we in the Left Party support together with the government parties. Here we now have the biggest effort in several decades to increase the protection of forests. This is obviously good for biodiversity and good when we want to protect species from extinction. It is also good to have more biodiversity and protection of forests in a future when there may be more of extreme weather. In this way we get more resilience, more resilience in the forest. It is also good to have more protection of forests for fast growing industries. I am thinking here in particular of the tourism industry. Johan Hultberg from the Moderates talked about the forest industry, which spends a lot of money and creates many important jobs for people in Sweden. Johan Hultberg mentioned that according to his own data, the forest industry creates 55 000 full-time jobs every year in Sweden. That's a lot. But tourism creates almost 170 000 jobs in Sweden every year. The forestry industry has a turnover of approximately SEK 120 billion each year," said Johan Hultberg from the Moderates. Then I would like to remind you that the tourism industry has a turnover of about twice as much, more than SEK 200 billion each year. This is a rapidly growing industry. An important part of the tourism industry is the forest. A large part of the foreign visitors wander in and visit our Swedish forests and not least our national parks, which have more than 2 million visitors each year, half of which are foreign. I think it is important that we continue to ensure that there is a forest to visit if we think that the tourism industry is something that is important to invest in. As I said, it is a good thing that the Forest Protection Act is being revised. I would also like us to have concrete efforts to promote alternatives to green-shrink farming. It is a good thing that we spend more money to protect the forest. I would also like to see in the future a special effort on green jobs in the forest, which existed a few years ago. People who have been unemployed for many years in the past would be allowed to carry out important tasks, such as clearing the forest and generally making it easier for people to get into the forest and land. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to mention one of the two announcements contained in the report. It is about the EU not interfering in Swedish forestry policy. I totally agree. But I think it's breaking an already open door. This is an issue on which we have agreed across party boundaries. Brussels should simply not interfere in Swedish forestry policy. It's up to us to decide for ourselves.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1257	Mr President, I would like to In all honesty, I did not intend to take a line, but Jens Holm is adept at provoking me in the speaker's chair, so now I stand here again. Initially, I can see that Jens Holm also refers in this debate, as so many times before, to the Swedish Forest Agency's polytax inventories. But the Swedish Forest Board itself has found that the inventory method did not meet the standards. The fact that the results were not reliable is explicitly stated in the evaluation of the method. Therefore, the method has been discontinued. I think it is quite serious, Mr President, that Jens Holm is once again basing his argument on evidence which the Authority itself does not think is reliable. We need good inventories in forestry so that we can have a factual debate in this House on the basis of the facts. Unfortunately, that inventory did not provide that basis. As far as the disposal of forests is concerned, I note that the Alliance ensured that the rate of disposal of valuable forests nearly doubled, not least thanks to the so-called Sveaskogs solution, where we used state land as a tool to speed up the pace. Many forest owners want to set aside forests for natural reasons, but they want other forests to be used in exchange. Thanks to the Sveaskog solution, we were able to speed up the pace. Mr President, I would like to I and Jens Holm agree that we need to continue to develop forestry and environmental considerations in forestry. But does Jens Holm really believe that the way forward is detailed decisions and more pointers in this House?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1261	Mr President, I would like to There are a number of things that I think we need to legislate more clearly about forestry. I would not call it detailed management, but I would call it that this area should assume its responsibility for achieving our environmental objectives, just as all other policies should. I think, for example, that there should be an obvious possibility of imposing sanctions in case of breach of the respect rules of the Forest Protection Act, that there should be mandatory consultation in case of end-effects, that money needs to be allocated for alternative forestry methods and – even if it is not a legislative issue – that we should give Sveaskog a mandate to work more with level-free forestry methods. There is a great deal that is not actually happening. I would like to ask Johan Hultberg what he thinks about today's notification requirement in case of fellings. I think Johan Hultberg himself is a forest owner, so he probably knows well that you should report before a felling. The Swedish Forest Agency will then have the opportunity to make the notification conditional and impose requirements on how the felling should be carried out. A couple of years ago, more than 60 000 applications were made, and it was a couple per mille or not, but eight that were conditional. Does Johan Hultberg think it is a suitable level? Does Johan Hultberg not think that something needs to be done based on those figures?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1265	Mr President, I would like to I'd love to be a forest owner. Unfortunately, my total forest holdings consist of a hanging birch on the grounds. But in the future I hope to have the opportunity to use and own a forest property, because the forest is fantastic as a source of recreation and the opportunity to go out for walks, and for my part I like to run in it. It is also a source of economic growth and the opportunity to create jobs and prosperity in our country through traditional products. We produce forest raw materials to build houses, make paper or other products out of. But it is also a source of economic growth, as Jens Holm highlighted in his speech, in the form of the infrastructure on which the tourism industry is based. Mr President, I would like to Then I can only correct Jens Holm who mixed apples and pears together in his speech. The export value of the forest industry, which I am talking about, is 120 billion, and the export value of the tourism industry is about 100 billion, so it is roughly the same. Jens Holm talked about the total value, if I understood it correctly, or the turnover for the industry. We're going to keep the different concepts apart there. When it comes to notifications of final felling, I think it is good if the Swedish Forest Agency can increase supervision and do so to a greater extent. But I think it is reasonable that it is precisely the forest owner who decides when he or she wants to do a felling and that it should not be subject to court proceedings, in the same way that I do not think it is reasonable for a farmer to have to report to the court if he or she is going to make a harvest of autumn wheat. It's basically the same thing. It's just that the rotation times in forestry are amazingly much longer. That is why we also have legislation that says that we need to take extensive natural considerations into account in forestry. And I would argue with the stubbornness of a fool that the vast majority of forest owners take that responsibility by far.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1268	Mr President, I would like to I think that me and Johan Hultberg differ in terms of what we think Swedish forestry looks like today. We in the Left Party believe that we need to take greater political responsibility. I do not really understand why the forestry industry should be an area where we should have such low ambitions in terms of legislation. Mr President, I would like to I think it is a bit illustrating when Johan Hultberg compares a felling of a perhaps several hundred year old forest with the harvest of autumn wheat that can grow up the following year. I would say that there is quite a difference between these two. As for tourism statistics, I do not think I mix apples and pears. The money spent in the tourism industry is reported in the statistics as export revenue. My point was that the tourism industry is a rapidly growing industry. It is a bit tiring in these discussions that we are talking almost only about the forest industry as it would have some kind of first-hand right when it comes to how we use the forest. I think it is a broad social issue. Johan Hultberg now acknowledged that the tourism and tourism industry is incredibly important to Sweden, and I think that is very good.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1272	Mr President, I would like to Much has been said at this stage in the debate, and many are involved in forestry policy. I should like to begin by being a little formal here and to support the proposal in the report, except for paragraph 3 on simplification, in which I call for the approval of reservation 4 which the Liberals have together with the other alliance parties. There we are clear that regulatory simplification work should continue for companies in general and in this context for companies working in the forest in particular. There are two announcements. The red-greens have replied in a reservation that this is something that you already think. However, in view of today's debate, I think that the Riksdag should lay down what is stated in the first announcement, that the national forestry companies should be based on two equal goals, the production target and the environmental objective, and that they have a given place. It is basically about sustainability and a growing bio-based economy. Mr President, I would like to It has been expressed here in slightly different ways – and I can only agree with that – that all Swedes, at least the absolute majority, have more or less a relationship with the forest. It's a lot about outdoor life. Some run as Johan Hultberg does, while others may just be content to pick one or two chanterelles and some blueberries. But not for nothing enhances the biodiversity of the forest in both cases the value of the forest. Experience tourism has been discussed here at the end. It is a strongly growing industry in Sweden, and of course it must also be taken into account. But the forest is so much more. One cannot really exaggerate the importance of forests for Sweden. It has been mentioned before that it is our green gold, and we can say without trembling on the cuff that the forest actually makes us rich in many ways. The figure of 120 billion in export value was mentioned. It is a little over 10 per cent of the total Swedish export value, so it is clear that the forest has a huge significance for Sweden as a country. Furthermore, forests have become increasingly prominent when we discuss the climate issue and the climate perspective. When you talk about forest and climate, it can be about the destruction of rainforests, which is a huge problem. But it is also very much about our own forests here in Sweden. This is about the role of forests as carbon sinks and of course also about the possibility of using forests as raw materials to replace raw materials that we now have of fossil origin – what we call substitution. Normally, we use the forest for construction, paper and fuel. But we will also largely use the forest for chemicals. For example, when you visit the chemistry cluster in Stenungsund, they say that for their part they can just as well take their atoms from the forest. They do not have to have fossil atoms, for carbon atoms are carbon atoms, and carbon chains are carbon chains. They have very strong visions of pure chemistry by 2030. Furthermore, textiles and much else have a future in the forest. We also have biofuels for vehicles. After all, aviation and road traffic need this type of fuel. Perhaps it is more the case that in future we must give priority to what we are going to use the forest for. Maybe it's not enough for everything. As the situation is now, Sweden is a country where the forest gives us unique opportunities. Finland and Sweden have about the same conditions. Mr President, I would like to As I said, our two announcements meet with the fact that these are really completely unnecessary things. I don't really know how Isak From expressed himself about it in the beginning – I've forgotten – but I think it was a bit condescending. Given the uncertainty that is spreading when the government parties talk about this, it is certainly appropriate for the parliament to lay down certain things, and so the government will have to deal with them. It is about the central element of forestry policy, and it is the balance between the two equal objectives of production and environmental objectives. But I do not understand that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, of which I am fully aware, do not belong to the government, talk about the same thing. Isak From talked about parallel processes and then even raised this with heavier and longer vehicles. I have been on the Transport Committee for many years and I have not understood that there was a government policy in which the Social Democrats and the Green Party worked together for heavier and longer vehicles. Rather, the Green Party has been a consistent opponent of this. Let me therefore put a question to Isak From: Is this government policy? I know there's a lot of work going on with heavier vehicles, but the forest industry is probably just as interested in longer vehicles. This was particularly true in the En travest project, which is often referred to as very successful. There it was the length of the vehicle that was important. As far as environmental considerations are concerned, we must, of course, have set aside and protected forest areas. The Liberals fully agree with this, and it is also part of our policy. Alternative farming methods should not, of course, be discouraged. There are many forest owners who use alternative logging methods when it's good. Let me highlight a report that Skogsforsk has produced in the Smart consideration research programme. 120 studies from Sweden, Norway, Finland and the Baltic States have been compiled and it is noted that the general nature considerations taken during felling have produced results for biodiversity. It is also noted that this consideration should not necessarily be the same everywhere and that the focus should be on focusing environmental considerations. One example is the highest men. If you leave three highest men on each shelf, there will be too few highest men everywhere for certain insect species. There is great potential for further development of environmental concerns in the field of bare-hugging. So there is much to do on that side too. That report and the way we work, we need to get back to work. However, we can see that the environmental considerations that have been taken have produced results. I and the Liberals also want to highlight forest owners as the real key people who know their forest. What is important is that we, through dialogue and information, make forest owners aware of the value of the rules of consideration that we have to deal with. In view of the many voluntary provisions being made and the success of the rules of consideration we have had, this works, after all.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1296	Mr President, I would like to I listened carefully to Lars Tysklind's speech and noted that Lars Tysklind did not talk about what his alliance colleagues talked about a lot, namely the legal review of the forestry law that is now being done. Let me therefore briefly ask Lars Tysklind: which of the three points that Court of Appeal Charlotta Riberdahl has been asked to review, does Lars Tysklind think is the worst?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1298	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Bergström for the question and answer that I have no reason to rate them. Although I did not mention it in my speech, I fully agree with my alliance colleagues that the review of the Forest Protection Act feels like a parallel process in this context. The focus should be on developing the forest programme and creating long-term regulations that you have to stick to in the forest. It is not legislation that is the problem, but it is that it does not have clear guidelines for what applies. It's a lot about knowledge and research.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1302	Mr President, I would like to Charlotte Riberdahl is going to look at three things. Firstly, it is about who is responsible for logging. The reason for that is that we have legal cases that show that it is unclear. We have entrepreneurs who blame forest owners and forest owners who blame entrepreneurs when fellings have gone wrong. It is difficult to choose who is guilty because the law is unclear. Secondly, it is strange that there is no legal clause in the Forest Protection Act that says that it is punishable to provide incorrect information. One can therefore do a felling and say that there are no biotopes or old cultural or ancient memories and then not be punished for it. On the other hand, the environmental code contains such provisions. Lars Tysklind and I sit in the Environmental Objectives Committee, and a former environmental policy committee thought it would be necessary to review whether such provisions should not be included in the Forest Protection Act. So it comes from there. Thirdly, the right to appeal against a logging operation. When it comes to Änokdeltat in northern Sweden, the Swedish Nature Protection Association got the right of the Administrative Court of Luleå to appeal against that felling. Lower court didn't think you should have it. So here we have a lack of clarity as to what actually applies in the Aarhus Convention. These are the three things we need to get things right. I would therefore like to ask: what problems do Lars Tysklind and the Liberals see with this? Is it that the Nature Conservation Association and others should have the right to appeal against the felling of old forests and mountain forests? Or is it to sort out who is responsible for logging? Or is it that you should be able to give false information without being punished? Which is it?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1308	Mr President, I would like to I have to repeat my answer that I am not going to grade them. The right to appeal under the Aarhus Convention was extended to outdoor organisations. The court ruling referred to by Stina Bergström shows, of course, that the court has ruled that they had the right to appeal. It shows that the existing legislation works. Of course, we always need precedents. Not until the court rulings begin to come to high court do we know exactly what's going on. This also applies to current legislation. However, the focus does not need to be on us making new laws, but on the fact that, according to the focus we have laid down for a long time, we should have balanced environmental goals and production targets. However, when I heard Mrs Bergström's speech, I did not feel that this balance existed, and it therefore seems even more justified that we have an announcement in Parliament about this.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1311	Mr President, I would like to As I understand the Liberals' forestry policy, you, Lars Tysklind, believe that so-called production-enhancing methods for the forest to grow faster and produce more are a good thing. I therefore wonder what the Liberals think of each of the following methods of production: fertilisation, increased ditching, stubble mining and more foreign wood.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1313	Mr President, I would like to I have to say, it's a strange question. I do not recognise it as anything from Liberal politics at all. That production-enhancing measures would consist of fertilisation, ditching and what was more – probably Jens Holm, if I understand the question correctly, believes that there is a major environmental breach, and that is of course not something that we think is good. So I do not find any of these methods quite attractive.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1315	Mr President, I would like to I think that was good to hear, because I think you should be extremely careful about fertilization. I don't really understand the point of that when it affects the environment so much at the other end. The same is true of education and stubble mining, which I think we should be able to ban completely. I think the introduction of fast growing foreign wood is also a bad idea. At the same time, it is the case, Lars Tysklind, that these four methods or aspects that I have addressed are often derived from production-enhancing methods. There are certainly more methods that can be used to ensure that the forest produces increased yields, but I think it is really important if you, as a party, argue for production-enhancing methods, which I thought the Liberals did, that you know what you are talking about. Above all, we should also be aware of the possible consequences for forests and biodiversity. But as I understand from the answer from Lars Tysklind, the Liberals have a critical, perhaps even a completely negative, attitude to fertilization, ditching, stub mining and more foreign species of wood in the Swedish forest. I think that's good.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1318	Mr President, I would like to I am a little amazed at Jens Holm's question, and I am even more amazed when he says that the Liberals are calling for methods of production to increase. What I have perhaps said at some point is that we do not by definition need to have a contradiction between increased forest yield and ecological considerations. In the context of equal production objectives and environmental objectives, this should be balanced. It is not as black or white as Jens Holm tries to make it as. I find it strange that the Liberals have argued for these methods, and I do not know in what context this should have happened. I have no more to add.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Tysklind, for your speech. There is a reservation from the bourgeois parties about regulatory simplifications. One of the first decisions taken by the alliance government when it came to power after 2006 was to decide what they called regulatory simplifications. This meant that the Swedish Work Life Institute was closed down and the funding for the Swedish Work Environment Authority was significantly reduced.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1322	This is now a parallel process that the S-led government is working on. Is it also such a damaging parallel process? It is important for the forest, for those who work in the forest and for the entrepreneurs. Is it reasonable to make money available to the Swedish Work Environment Authority? Is it reasonable to actually develop guidelines and information for the foreign workers who come here and want to work? It is also such a parallel process that Lars Tysklind's speech seemed to be very afraid of. As I said in my speech, the work on sustainable transport is also something that this government places high on. This applies to both efficient rail transport and sustainable lorry transport, and the combination between – as short as possible and as much timber and products as possible on the railways – is important. It is also a parallel process. Is Lars Tysklind against it too?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1325	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the last thing about sustainable transport, the Social Democrats have brought the Green Party along and started to think a little cross-modal, and I am only pleased about that. For a long time, there has probably been a majority in this Parliament for both longer and heavier vehicles, but the Social Democrats have not really been helpful in bringing this forward. In fact, in the work that has been done in the past, the Green Party, which is a member of the government with the Social Democrats, has been totally opposed to this. That is what my question was about, that is whether it is government policy. It is of course gratifying if the Green Party has now turned around on this issue. Isak From, as a government representative in this context, should know that. Then I find it a little strange when you first say that you closed the Work Life Institute and that the Swedish Work Environment Authority received less funding and then draws a parallel to the number of deaths. Of course, it is incredibly tragic that some sixty people have died, but the link is not quite clear. We should all agree on the importance of a good working environment. I do not call that a parallel process at all, but it is something that applies to the whole business community.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1329	Mr President, I would like to What the government has announced is that it is especially looking at the green industries precisely because we also have a number of cases where unions and the Swedish Work Environment Authority have found that immigrant workers have been exploited and have been allowed to work in Sweden under slave-like conditions. As I said in my previous speech, the Alliance Government stated that it was important regulatory simplifications that were introduced when the appropriations were reduced. It would simplify the way for businesses. But we also see the results now. The number of people killed and injured has increased. We must do something about that. I asked Kristina Yngwe a question, and I can ask it to Lars Tysklind too. We can see that the number of applicants for agricultural upper secondary schools is, unfortunately, falling. We also see that the master programmes do not have as many applicants as they would need. This is a common concern. We want to review Gy 2011 to give students the opportunity to actually get higher education qualifications. Can the Liberals, after all, consider admitting that Gy 2011 was not really a great idea and solution when it comes to the professional preparatory programmes? Programme by programme loses the number of applicants. This is detrimental to the economy of the whole country. It is harmful to the forestry industry in the long term.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1332	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the latter with Gy 2011 and higher education qualifications, it was not that one could not obtain higher education qualifications if one wished to do so. I have visited this type of high school, and there has been access to university qualifications. What I think is the biggest factor in young people's not seeking is their belief in the future and whether they can develop within the green industries. If you surround them with a terrible amount of rules and laws, you do not increase faith in the future. Much about the green industry is about self-employment and freedom under responsibility, if I now use the worn-out expression that has been used here during the debate today. I would like to say once again that I regret the fact that Isak From makes a clear link with the simplification work here. I am the first to regret that people have died in their work, but the link is certainly not clear. I am sorry that he expresses himself in this way.
i-A36C5TcWxvKsTjP2RWqYZY	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal under paragraph 2 on national forestry programmes. I also support the alliance parties' reservation in paragraph 3 on the simplification of the rules. It's a privilege for me to stand here on my birthday and talk about the forest. Forests have enormous significance for our country, but also for us as individuals. The export revenue from the forest industry is over 120 billion per year. In total, the forest industry accounts for 10 – 12 per cent of the Swedish industry's production value, value added and employment. It is therefore a question of thousands of jobs created by the forest. Without exaggerating, we can therefore say that what is good for the forest is also good for our country. For a long time there has been sustainable forestry in Sweden. There is a great deal of consideration for the environment and cultural values. Forests are of great importance to us as individuals. To take a walk in the forest especially this spring is something absolutely fantastic – to see how buds burst out, hear deafening chives and smell the forest. It's something I don't want to be without. Children and old, women and men, we can all if we want to take advantage of the enormous opportunities of refreshment that exist in forest and land. Forests are also a resource for innovation. From new fuels, materials to clothing to materials to making artificial ears – it's true! – can be made from forest raw materials. Mr President, I would like to The forest is sometimes called Earth's lungs. This describes the important role of forests in producing oxygen, which all of us humans and animals need to breathe. At the same time, forests bind carbon dioxide. It is based on continued growth in Swedish forests. The fact that it is harvested and that new forests are planted means that part of man's carbon dioxide emissions are taken back from the atmosphere. In this way, forests help to counter the global climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. The forest is full of natural values. Plants and animals find their habitat in the various natural habitats of the forest. The forest's natural values have often developed through responsible forestry where the forest owner has seen himself as a manager who will leave the forest for future generations. We Christian Democrats call it the idea of stewardship. So we can see how freedom under responsibility has worked for a long time in the Swedish forest. At times the Forest Protection Act has been too detailed, but thanks to the Bildt government in the early 1990s, forest owners have regained much of their freedom. We have seen during the last alliance government how forest owners made large voluntary provisions of valuable natural forests. This was complemented by provisions for state forest land. Forced infringements of property rights shall be avoided. Mr President, I would like to In November, the Government appointed an investigation to review the Forest Protection Act. According to the Directive, the investigator is to identify, inter alia, the need to clarify the provisions on appeals against decisions under the Forest Protection Act. In plain language, this means that it should be possible for the public to appeal against the landowner's decision on fellings. I would like to highlight the alliance's common view, that is to say that it is very important that the national forestry programme should be based on two equal objectives: the production target and the environmental objective. The focus of the forest programme shall include economic, social and environmental values and aim to further contribute to the development of a sustainable society and a growing bio-based social economy. It is important that we continue our efforts to reduce the regulatory burden on forest entrepreneurs.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1348	Mr President, I would like to Then we've come to tonight's last errand. I'll think about it when I was a kid. On Sundays, when Mom had decided that we would make it extra festive, they sat there and pilded the best pieces out of dessert, those that were to be saved at last. But tonight's cake has got a little bitter aftertaste. We can see that when it comes to municipal issues and the view of the surplus in welfare generated by private welfare companies, we have slightly different views. The majority of the committee would now like to address an announcement to the government that welfare is well served by profit-hunting and commercialisation. Moreover, many of those who now choose to address an announcement to the government do not even bother to come to Parliament to defend their position. In the debate we primarily lacked the Swedish Democrats, who were first opposed to profits in welfare but after taffel with some of the private welfare companies are now joining forces with the bourgeois parties. But to come to Parliament's chamber and defend your changed view, that the prize hunt is excellent, you do not want to. I think it is both incomprehensible and irresponsible. When welfare began to be enriched with other participants than just public performers, in the 1990s, the starting point was that we would pave the way for more ideas-driven actors. It was about non-profit organisations, cooperatives or foundations. At that time none of the politicians in charge were able to anticipate a development in which welfare would eventually develop into a commodity in which quick cuts control the business. There is reason to pause for a moment and reflect on the development, the marketisation of our common welfare that we have now seen. I believe that the organisation of our common welfare should be based on students and teachers but also on the serious private actors, such as free schools that enrich the school world with new exciting educational orientations. The school should be about students, the right to a good education and good knowledge. Care and care should be about security and care. It is somehow the basis of what we mean when we talk about the Swedish model. It has been developed on the basis of a principle of public interest. The resources we set aside together for common affairs should also be used for what they are intended, i.e. that we jointly contribute according to ability and that welfare is there when it is needed, distributed according to needs. I would say that welfare policy is basically a question of freedom. It frees people from the necessity of the economic subordination. Welfare does not depend on one's own financial resources to benefit from school, health care and care. And you don't have to give up much of your own life to take care of loved ones who need such services and can't buy them on the market. Health care, education and care are important for people's opportunities and lives. The life spans get smaller when they don't exist. This means that you either have to pay yourself to get access to the goods or that you are referred to others – family, family and friends – for help. If you don't have enough money to buy or don't have a family that can help you, you just have to give up. Therefore, I would say that it is not true, as some bourgeois representatives seem to claim, that tax-funded welfare policies restrict and passivate. The real violation of freedom and the real passivation of freedom is the defiance of being able to make no choices of their own, but constantly subject to the needs of, or subordinate to, the needs of others and the interests of others. Welfare policy is about equality but just as much about freedom. It also highlights the importance of municipalities and the importance of providing them with sufficient financial resources to fulfil their tasks in the field of welfare policy. We know that municipalities are a backbone of the Swedish welfare model. They are a platform for welfare through their plan monopoly for developing and building housing, through school and through social care. Yes, it is through this that the Swedish model has been developed. The welfare model is basically like a house that stands on a solid foundation. But that presupposes keeping the house, maintaining it and building on. If you don't, the house will fall apart. Yet Sweden stands out today, Mr President. The welfare is under attack. Not anywhere in our world has welfare been so governed by market principles, with so many commercial profit-making companies in the publicly funded school and with so many profit-making companies in the publicly funded welfare. It is even the case that the sister parties of the bourgeois parties – British Tor ies, Norwegian Høyre and the Danish Right – sometimes use Sweden as a deterrent. Long-term privatisation reforms contribute to the dismantling of quality and equivalence, to the declining status of the teaching profession and to a free fall in knowledge. Why the bourgeois Alliance and the Swedish Democrats, who protect a variety of performers and that the activities of the welfare sector can continue to be carried out in various forms of operation and ownership, want to prevent certain urgent matters even being investigated in the stars. In fact, it is not reasonable for us to have clearer rules for running a hot dog kiosk than for private operators in social care for children and young people. I would say that welfare must be governed by a number of important principles in order to somehow be part of the Swedish model, as we know it. It is a question of democratic governance and transparency. There shall be the possibility of surplus operations but not of unhemular profits. It is a question of basing ourselves on the principle of public interest that common funds are used for common affairs and are not distributed to tax havens. In this way, we also safeguard real freedom of choice in the welfare of the individual. It is a well-being that makes it easier for ideas-based actors to operate in the welfare sector. Then we can also use our common resources in the most efficient way. They are then used precisely for the activities for which they are intended and in such a way as to benefit users, patients and students. Then we can ensure that public funding for private welfare services is designed so that they really ensure equivalence, quality, management of needs and transparency and provide the basis for the freedom and liberation that all people deserve. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the reservation in the FiU26 report on municipal issues signed by the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Left Party: reservation 1, Freedom of choice, diversity and quality in publicly funded welfare activities.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1365	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by warning you that I will use more than the speaking time announced. During the reign of the Alliance, we saw the creation of a large number of new companies in the welfare and home care sectors. There were several reasons for this. The law on freedom of choice, LOV, encouraged diversity in welfare while the free choice of schools has gradually increased the number of independent schools. In the household services sector, both the RUT deduction and the reduction in employers' contributions for young people have led to an increasing number of businesses being set up and diversity and freedom of choice strengthened, while many have found employment. The RUT sector is today an important part of the well-being of many, not least of the elderly, who in this way can supplement the municipality's home service for a reasonable sum. After the change of government, many dark clouds have begun to threaten the positive development. Signals from politics are important. The limitation of the RUT deduction ceiling may not have materially meant so much in SEK for most of those who buy these services. However, the signal that politics wants to limit these deductions has already reduced the number of jobs, and the Swedish Tax Agency confirms that the number of services rendered has decreased. In the welfare sector, the situation is even worse. The commission's investigation into limiting or prohibiting profits in welfare companies has already had dire consequences. Banks have already become more restrictive with loans, which discourages both the start-up of businesses and the growth and investment of existing companies. The possibility of attracting private investment capital is also being reduced for the same reason. Few want to invest money in a business if you cannot get the bet back plus a reasonable return. In the long run, this means that companies in the welfare sector are reluctant to recruit even though they need it. According to a survey carried out by the Health Care Professionals among the members of the organisation, two out of five companies say that they refrain from investing and/ or hiring. We also receive signals that uncertainty about the future causes the owners of the small welfare companies, whom everyone cares about, to give up. Instead, the owners are trying to sell the business to large groups. This, of course, strikes against the diversity that all of us politicians say we want to protect. Mr President, I would like to Approximately 250 000 people or more than one fifth of all employees in Swedish welfare work in private or other independent businesses. There is much talk of large groups and venture capital. However, the private part of the welfare sector consists of some 55 000 companies. 93 per cent of these enterprises are small, with fewer than 20 employees. The welfare sector is a clearly women-dominated industry. In health and long-term care, over 80 per cent of the personnel are women. The share of female business leaders in the private health and social care sector is 54 per cent. We can compare this with 28% in business as a whole. In elderly care, two thirds of managers are women. It is incomprehensible that a government that wants to call itself a feminist is prepared to turn its back on one of the sectors in the private sector where the most women work and where there is such a high proportion of female business leaders. In reply to Niklas Karlsson, let me be extremely clear. The Moderates are behind the Swedish model with a publicly funded welfare. It has broad popular support. Common funding often comes first when people answer the question of what the Swedish welfare model is. But the second most important issue is actually the right to choose a school, health care centre or retirement home based on your own wishes. That's important, too. The understanding that a variety of different actors contribute to developing new ideas and finding new smarter and more efficient ways of working has long been widely supported in politics, from right to left, possibly with the exception of the Left Party. We in Sweden have had a relatively broad political consensus on the value of this. Unfortunately, the government has now chosen to take a different path. Mr President, I would like to It was just over a year ago that the S-MP government and the Left Party appointed the study on profit limitation in welfare. Although it was called the Welfare Investigation, the Investigation Directive did not in any way focus on how Sweden should better be able to secure quality, accessibility and value for money in its welfare. Instead, the focus was to impose wide restrictions on freedom of choice in welfare and limit the possibility for independent activities to operate in the public sector. It was in response to these directly destructive investigation directives that the Alliance initiated an announcement from the Riksdag with an alternative direction less than a year ago. We felt that the government must focus on the central issue of welfare challenges, namely how best to ensure quality, accessibility and choice in welfare. Since the Alliance's committee initiative was voted through in Parliament barely a year ago, the government has come up with additional directives for the original investigation. The new directives contain some important adjustments to Parliament's decisions. It was particularly important that it was decided to delete the part which meant that the law on freedom of choice in primary care should be abolished. There are also some sharper wordings on quality and condition monitoring that were missing in the past. However, the core of the original investigation directive remains, and in concrete terms it is a very far-reaching requirement for profit limitation, which would make it very difficult for many companies to operate and develop their business and to obtain money for new investment and innovation. Uncertainty about the future of many well-functioning welfare activities persists. In view of the fact that we still see major problems with the investigation directive, we have chosen to raise the issue once again in a recent announcement by the majority of the Committee on Finance. With this announcement, we want to make it clear to the government that we want to see not only an investigation but also sharp proposals for action in the Riksdag that focus on strengthening the quality of welfare and safeguarding and developing freedom of choice and diversity. Among the most important points are the introduction of a general authorisation requirement for all welfare providers regardless of their operating form, which places clear demands on all owners and management. We think it is self-evident that every actor who wants to conduct activities within school, health care and care should be able to demonstrate that they have financial conditions and meet certain knowledge and competence requirements. This will then have to be designed in a way that protects the smaller players, such as cooperatives. We also believe that there should be clear sanctions linked to the authorisation obligation. It is of great importance that licensing obligations also apply to publicly operated activities. Let me give you a current example. In the case of accommodation for unaccompanied refugee children, privately operated HVB homes must have permission from the Health and Welfare Inspection. This does not need the municipalities to have. At the moment there are about a thousand municipal HVB homes and about 300 private HVB homes. We now see how municipalities start HVB homes without setting the quality requirements that Ivo, the Inspection for Health and Social Care, places on private companies. In other words, municipalities compete with lower quality. Mr President, I would like to Our message is clear: we are in favour of proposals that lead to a real improvement in the quality of public welfare and develop freedom of choice. Equally clearly, we will continue to reject in Parliament any proposals that prevent and hamper freedom of choice and diversity. In this context, I would also like to make it clear that the government cannot just wave away Parliament's announcements. The government obviously needs to be reminded that it is responsible to this Parliament. Mr President, I would like to I shall now touch on a completely different subject in this motion report. This applies to the supervisory activities of municipalities and to the fees paid for them. There are a number of motions on this issue, and I myself am responsible for two of them. All the movements have one thing in common: they point out that municipalities all too often charge excessive supervisory fees and that the companies affected by these fees experience a great deal of discretion. Local authorities currently finance large parts of their supervisory activities through supervisory fees charged to traders in various sectors. However, there is no legal regulation that says that the municipality also has to carry out supervisory visits. In some cases, municipalities have charged for supervision activities without having made any visits at all. This is not reasonable. A municipality should not be allowed to charge fees other than when a visit is actually made. Basically, there is a problem in itself with fee funding for supervisory activities. As municipalities seek to make resources sufficient for more or less important purposes, the interest in charging more and more services or increasing the fees for services already subject to charges increases. Differences in fees between municipalities can often be very large. A form of fees that is common are precisely fees for the exercise of official supervision, such as food inspections, environmental checks and the like. When these activities are financed in their entirety, there is a complete lack of incentives to develop the efficiency of the activities, and the risk becomes apparent that many unnecessary supervisory visits are being made, precisely in order to be able to charge even more fees. Supervisory activities can expand without any objections from policy, as everything can be financed alongside tax revenues through higher charges. For small traders this can be very costly. One way to tackle this would be to review the regulatory framework for the funding of public authority fees so that supervisory activities are mainly financed through the tax system. At the same time, it becomes much more interesting for municipalities to streamline their operations and not to make unnecessary visits. The report states that Statskontoret has submitted a report to the Government with proposals for more efficient fee funding. This report notes that the current charging model lacks both comprehensibility and legitimacy. The committee writes in the report that it wishes to await the preparation of the Government before any measures are taken. This is a customary way of handling individual movements, but I assume that Statskontoret's report will not only become a shelf heater at the Government Office but that you really take these issues seriously. This is, in fact, one of the issues that is constantly mentioned when you meet small businesses and ask them what they see as the main problem of the business environment. I think it should be possible to find ways forward in broad political agreement on this issue. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, let me say a few words about the other two reservations of Mr Oderatians. Reservation 2 refers to proposals in a moderate party motion, where we raise the issue of the future supply of skills in welfare. We want to see a survey and spread good examples to get more elderly and experienced employees in the welfare to want to stay longer in their profession. At present, we are getting more and more signals both that fewer people are training in the healthcare professions and that many are leaving the profession after some time to do something else. Pressed work situation, permanent reorganisations, limited employee involvement, poor management, low pay and sometimes excessive working hours with shared tours or part-time jobs that cannot be lived on are some of the explanations we usually get. But it is also a question of not seeing any opportunity to make a career and that the ability to develop skills is limited. Over the years, the Moderates have taken a number of initiatives to make the public sector a better employer. Among other things, we have stated at party meetings that moderate municipal politicians should work to ensure that more are offered full-time services and that we reduce the use of shared tours. Lower taxes for low income earners are also important, as is the review of the pay situation for certain professions. It is also central that municipalities take the issue of management and employee involvement seriously. I would like to make it particularly clear that the Moderates see employees as the most important resource in the welfare sector. This applies to those who work in the public sector as well as those in private companies or cooperatives in the welfare sector. In reservation 3, even from a moderate party motion, it is pointed out that modern technology and innovations can bring great opportunities for both users and performers in welfare. Not least in sparsely populated areas, modern technology can improve access to welfare services, but it can also make all welfare activities more efficient and accessible. Against this background, we Moderates want to see a better collaboration between municipalities, county councils and regions around investments in IT and to develop a national strategy to exploit innovations in welfare activities. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Moderates support their two reservations in the report, but for the time to come, I only ask for the approval of paragraph 1 of the committee's proposal in its consideration and rejection of reservation 1.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1398	Mr President, I would like to It was a long speech, but it is of course so, Jan Ericson, that the heart is full of you can talk about for a long time. At the same time, it's in the limit the champion shows up, so you'll get another chance. I can agree with many of what Jan Ericson has said. I think it is good that the Moderates now choose to pursue the issue of full-time as a right and part-time as an opportunity and that we should abolish the shared tours. There we have a long way to go, and both Jan Ericson and I have many party friends who have a homework to do at home in the municipalities. So I share Jan Ericson's view that this should be the case. On the other hand, I'm a little curious. It is clear what interests we represent. In Jan Ericson's speech, we heard a lot about the conditions for companies; how many companies have been set up, what conditions the companies have and what conditions they will have in the future. But not in a word does Jan Ericson mention the students at school. He doesn't talk about the patients in the health care system or the patients in the care. Then the question of freedom arises. If welfare is about freedom and liberation for people, to succeed in life, to feel better, to have a good life, if you don't talk about students and patients, if you just talk about companies, I wonder what freedom Jan Ericson is talking about. Freedom for whom?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1402	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Karlsson has probably not listened very carefully, but perhaps it was because the speech was so far that he fell asleep a little bit. I said in particular, addressed in response to Niklas Karlsson, that I want to make it clear that the Swedish model of publicly funded welfare is the most important issue for the Swedish people. But the second most important issue is actually the right to choose a school, a health centre and a home for the elderly. That's exactly what the model is for the Swedish people, that is to say that you should be able to both opt out of something that doesn't work and choose something that you think works extra well. For example, you may have a child with special needs who needs to attend a special school. Maybe you have an old sick mother who needs to live in a special accommodation to make her feel good. It is important for us to be able to choose a health centre, choose a dentist or something else. People appreciate this – it shows all the measurements. That's exactly the point of what I'm saying. But if there are no options to choose from, then people cannot choose. If we turn our feet on the activities that exist today and are popular, there is also nothing to choose from. It is therefore important to see the whole picture. You need to see that the activities that work can be financed and that they can be developed and invested. Then you must be able to make a certain profit from the money you invest in the operations. There is a demand for return on our municipalities today. They're going to go with surplus. But it sometimes sounds to the opposition that if you run the business privately, you must not go with surplus. It's weird.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1407	Mr President, I would like to Here the difference between the bourgeois interests and the interests we soc ical democrats represent is clear. Jan Ericson talks about surplus, and then he confuses it with profit hunting. It is not that the Social Democracy has said that it should not be able to make surpluses in the business. Good economic management is that municipalities and county councils should have a surplus of 2 per cent in relation to tax revenues and general government grants. We think it is reasonable because it is a good economy. When we talk about a principle of public interest, it is precisely a question of making a certain surplus of the business. But the money should be used for what it is intended for. They're staying in business. This is something else when the yield requirement is 10, 15, 20 up to 25 percent and when we see companies handing out billions to their owners and placing the money in tax havens. We're turning against the prize hunt and the unhemulable winnings. This is what Jan Ericson and the Moderates are trying to hide behind a discussion about the right of companies to establish themselves and that it is only about freedom of choice. There is no one in the Swedish Parliament, in this House, who says that we should not have freedom of choice in welfare. We're just saying that it's supposed to be a principle of public interest to govern. We're not interested in the unhemous profits. We think that this money should be used for patients, users and students. The interest of Jan Ericson and the Moderates is primarily that the companies should make these great profits to you. Explain and tell me the truth!
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1412	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what I'm doing. I'm telling you the truth. Niklas Karlsson says that it is possible to get 2% in surplus. But if a private company gets a surplus of 2%, it is suddenly an unhemly profit. It's very strange. I wonder which companies get the 10, 20, 25 % in profits in the welfare sector that Niklas Karlsson is talking about. I haven't come across any of those. It doesn't look like that in real life. I will give you a recent example of which I was given today. In Farsta, the City of Stockholm has established an HVB home in an abandoned dementia home. There, 100 young people have been put into the premises, compared to the normal in an HVB home that is 10 to 15 children. At the same time, the City of Stockholm has forced children to move from private smaller HVB homes that have been approved by the Inspection for Care to this new giant residence in Farsta, which is not approved by the Inspection for Care and Care. Such approval does not need to be granted by the municipality. The motive is obviously economic, since the municipality receives SEK 1,900 per person per day in compensation for the children in the accommodation. If the municipality, with the help of large-scale operation, reduces the cost per location to a lower amount, it will be a pure profit for the red-green-pink majority in Stockholm. It is an example of a municipal prize hunt that would have been prevented if the City of Stockholm had had to obtain permission from Ivo for its operations. That is why I believe that it is so extremely important to demand permission for both public and private actors so that we can stop the unhemulable win hunt from the red-green-pink majority in Stockholm City.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1418	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is a world-unique success, which is based, among other things, on a high tax charge to finance our common welfare. For the Swedish model to be maintained and trust to remain, we must also be able to assure everyone who lives here that taxes are used effectively and effectively. The fact that taxes intended to finance health care, care for the elderly and education are instead passed on to the profits of private companies cannot in any way be considered effective or appropriate. During autumn and winter, the situation has become even more acute when many private actors have been able to cope with the refugee crisis by entering asylum reception and setting up family homes for unaccompanied refugee children. Once again, we see how a poorly developed market system allows private companies to embed our common welfare. Ensuring that tax money goes to what it is intended for and that the tax revenue is mainly reinvested is crucial to getting away from the prob lems brought about by the pursuit of profit, where children are excluded, where levels of education, working conditions and staffing are adversely affected, and so on. It is by stopping the pursuit of profit and putting quality in focus in schools, care, care for the elderly, reception of refugees, but also in HVB homes, sfi and drug treatment that we can get the necessary quality increase that the bourgeois claim to protect. Today, the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats together make an announcement to the government. What the announcement means is not easy to understand. I tried to listen to Jan Ericson, but it wasn't completely clear. I'll still try a summary of the announcement. My summary would sound as follows: we are angry that the government has made up the profit agreement with the Left Party, because it means that our friends, the venture capitalists, can no longer make a big profit from running schools and retirement homes with poor working conditions and sometimes even just crackbread for the children. The Swedish Democrats in particular are clear because the announcement for them only required some pleasant three-course dinners to change their views on the matter before and after the elections. You can see that SD is trying to get into the finer salons, and then new friends in business are always a welcome addition. The Swedish Democrats are a chapter of their own in today's debate. First, we miss the adjustment for the report. Then the whole matter is re-examined and the debate is put on this hour of the day in plenary so that the President can work late, just to help his friends, the venture capitalists, get what they want. And then when it's time for debate, you don't even have the opportunity to be here defending your new love. Probably because you are currently sitting in the Opera basement eating dinner with Timbro. In practice, the announcement will not matter. The Left Party and the Government agree on the train order in the profit agreement. The investigation set up by the government is a continuation of an agreement between us and the government and has as its main mission to look at ways to get surpluses in private companies to be reinvested instead of being taken out as profits. The investigation is on the riot. Ilmar Reepalu, former municipal councillor in Malmö, will present his report in November this year, whereupon a bill will be placed on the board of Parliament in 2017. If you do not want to stop the prize hunt as an incentive in welfare, you can expect a tough debate in the election movement in 2018, because eight out of ten Swedes agree with us in the Left Party on this issue. Welfare has been damaged on many levels by the fact that companies that are primarily driven by profit interests have been released free to rummage in our care, school and care. Not least, it has increased inequality. Both in school and in health care, there is an increase in segregation as private companies are over-established in areas where students can be helped at home by educated parents and where people are healthier and more well-to-do. It is easier to make money when you can have fewer teacher - led lessons and instead send home assignments to the students that parents help with, and it is easier to make money from colds than from war trauma and wear and tear injuries. The bourgeois parties wanted other investigative directives. It's hardly surprising. Their main mission is to rake for the market. They have strong confidence that it is market solutions that drive society forward, and they go blindfolded and do not see that their market solutions in healthcare, school and care create segregation and increased gaps. It is strange that they do not even want to let the government investigate how tax money can benefit the business and how any profits can be reinvested as, in the first even though it is the government that owns the investigation power. I think it is an erosion of democracy that is taking place today and has taken place in the past with these negative announcements in Parliament. I believe that this is a dangerous path for our democracy. It is clear that it is so very important to enable continued profit draw, with all the consequences it has, that the bourgeoisie and the Swedish Democrats even undermine the constitutions. What are they not doing for the venture capitalists? The Left Party is a guarantor that the agreement on profits in welfare should not be thinned out on the road but really become the long-awaited turn of the privatisation wave that many in Sweden are looking forward to. There are few times bourgeois representatives are as eager as when defending the right to collect private profits from tax funds, regardless of the consequences for the Swedish model or for quality, trust and efficiency. The Left Party will closely monitor that the Welfare Investigation does not allow any loopholes for continued private profit hunting in welfare. Whether it be health centres, schools or retirement homes, we should be sure that everyone in Sweden is treated fairly according to their needs, not on the basis of the private companies' willingness to collect profits. The Left Party believes that municipal welfare needs more resources. That is why we are pushing for 10 billion in addition to the welfare of the budget we are currently negotiating with the government. It would be a much-needed addition to municipal care and school. If we were at the same time to stop the profit hunt in welfare, yes, then there would finally be resources both to give all children a good schooling and for my grandmother to have a good time at the retirement home. With that, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1438	Mr President, I would like to I asked for a reply because we have now heard a number of speeches which have dealt a great deal with the perception of the benefits of welfare. What Håkan Svenneling from the Left Party says is quite different from what we have heard before from Jan Ericson from the Moderates. Jan Ericson said in his line shift with me that he had not seen companies in the welfare sector that had a yield requirement of 10, 15 or 20 percent. He did not know where this was, but said that in the welfare sector it is 2 per cent that applies, just as for public services, municipalities and county councils. I say that there are companies with a 25 % return requirement. I know that SVT News has made reports on this. It quotes Johan Hähnel from Academedia, who says:. Our investors expect a return of 25 percent each year. I mean, the Moderates are wrong. But if they do not see these problems in welfare, if they do not see that there are companies that have these demands for returns, or if they try to turn a blind eye to this, then it is no wonder that they draw the conclusions they make. Now I would like to ask Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party: What opinion do you have? Do you see the unhemulable gains? You see the prize hunt? Or do you share the image of the Moderates?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1443	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't share the view that the Moderates have on the profits of welfare. I think that ever since 19 91, when the bourgeois made some legislative changes and began to create these market solutions in welfare, a slow process has been going on where the pursuit of profit as an incentive has constantly been stepped up and stepped up. From the beginning there were some bourgeois entrepreneurs with a very clear focus on changing how welfare logic worked in Sweden and changing the political systems. It was not so important to make a profit; the important thing was to change the systems and incentives. It started in a few municipalities with a few companies, some foot care and so on. But the situation has changed. In the 21st century and especially since the bourgeois government took power in 2006, we have seen how the welfare market has developed into the favorite place for venture capitalists in the world. We see that it is effective for large companies to invest in Swedish welfare and say: Here we, as investors, can earn the biggest money. It is not on the stock market in any part of the world, but it is in Swedish welfare that we know that it is profit. We know that it is profit because there will always be people in need. If I own an assistance company, I know that there will always be people who will be entitled to assistance under the Law on Support and Service, LSS. This means that the public will always pay me money, and so I will be able to make a big profit. That is why we have seen a number of companies, especially the large companies, making huge profits. I think it is a frightening development that we have seen, especially in the last ten years. I would be very pleased if Parliament could change that trend and move in a different direction. I do not think that would be impossible even for a moderate to say that it would be good if you stopped the prize hunt and that the money should mainly be reinvested in the business. For me, it's a pretty basic principle– we as politicians say that this is money for school, then they should also go to school.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1450	Mr President, I would like to I understand Håkan Svenneling's post as that he and the Left Party share the view that in welfare one should have some kind of public interest principle that governs the business. You should allow excess, but they should not be ohemula. The common funds we set aside for common affairs should also be used as intended.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1451	Mr President, I would like to I thank Niklas Karlsson for his question and for the debate.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1452	Mr President, I would like to Some questions came up during Håkan Svenneling's speech. It sounds at Håkan Svenneling like these welfare companies are wading in billions in profits, but really it doesn't look like that. On the school side, for example, we know that many of the school companies have suffered quite a loss in recent years rather than profit. Perhaps it is fortunate that they have had profits in previous years so that they survive at all. It also sounds at Håkan Svenneling that welfare companies are a bit like pig Sarimner. You can use this money for almost as much as you want. However, if you look at the actual profits of these companies, you can see that, on average, only a few percent a year are they making a profit, and most of this is reinvested. Would the poor money be enough to revolutionize the entire welfare sector in Sweden, hire lots of people, strengthen the finances of municipalities and so on? I don't understand where Håkan Svenneling gets all this money. The truth is that the venture capital companies mentioned by Håkan Svenneling are large groups that conduct a lot of different kinds of business, including in the welfare sector. But it is often a small part. One cannot therefore look at the whole group, which may be involved in building cars or refrigerators or selling IT services and has a section for welfare services. One cannot make up all those profits and say that the profits are made on the old and the sick, as the left does in its rhetoric. You actually have to break it down and see what welfare is all about, and then you see that it's pretty little money. Håkan Svenneling promises another 10 billion to the municipalities. Last fall we gave them 10 billion. Today, many municipalities find it difficult to know what to use the money for; they say so themselves. Do they need another 10 billion?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1458	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I would dare say that what we see is that municipalities and county councils definitely need another 10 billion in long-term contributions. We need to strengthen welfare in the long term in order to be able to invest in hiring more people who work in our care for the elderly, in our school and in our welfare. Above all, we see a great need for health care. Then we'd have better welfare, I mean. If we are investing in an expanded welfare and at the same time halting the pursuit of profit in welfare, I believe that we are getting resources far better than we are today. We see a school where the school results fall, we see an elderly care where the elderly are left alone and we see a health care that yesterday with loss basically across the country. You cannot offer the care that would be needed for all patients. Then you need to get to grips with the problems and actually see them. But when you hear Jan Ericson, you wonder if he has missed all forms of media reporting about how large groups of venture capital make sure to withdraw large amounts of money, put them in tax havens to avoid paying taxes in Sweden and then sell the companies on and make big profits on the sale. It may have been a little worse in recent years. It is above all one thing that has been very clear to schools, and that is that upper secondary school is no longer as full of students. Then there will be increased competition, and it will be a tougher environment to make profits in. The interesting thing is that when you spend everything on venture capital companies and companies that have a profit hunt as a main interest, it is not students' education that is in focus. Then you do not try to face the reduced litters in the best way, but then it is competition that applies. By offering you computers instead of good teaching, you seek to attract students. That's the prize hunt, and that's what I want to stop.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1465	Mr President, I would like to One can agree with Håkan Svenneling's view that there are quite large shortcomings both in the care of the elderly and in schools in many municipalities. There are also many municipalities that handle this fairly well. Basically, it is the responsibility of local politicians to give priority to what they spend the money on. The best schools are hardly in the counties where the Left Party is in charge, but it is usually in alliance-led municipalities that you have the best school results. Perhaps there is something in getting the school and care for the elderly that you vote for when you go to the ballot box. I note that the pig Sarimner is alive. Håkan Svenneling still believes that the surpluses that can be made in the welfare companies can be enough for a lot of improvements in the municipalities. I doubt it. These companies receive the same money per pupil or per patient as the municipality's or county council's activities. It is the same money per bet, per student or per person. If the venture capital companies mentioned by Håkan Svenneling manage to make a profit, it does not necessarily mean that the money will be over if the municipality withdraws the business. Then you have the same cost anyway, although you get no profit. I'm not so sure there'll be any money left for the council. It is about how to prioritise and how municipalities lead their work so that they spend the money on the right things. Then I note that Håkan Svenneling once again mixes apples and pears by seeing venture capital companies as welfare companies. However, many of the venture capital companies are not welfare companies, but are engaged in many different activities. Not everyone is serious-- I can sign that, but you can't say they've made their profits just on welfare. We shall now get to that through the supervision and control of these companies.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1470	Mr President, I would like to When the bourgeois government was in power, it chose not to list the support that the municipalities receive according to the municipal levelling. It's called state aid. Each year the aid would be the same as it had been the previous year. This means that the well-being of municipalities and county councils was slowly eroded. The same money was always given, but it was less money as the value of the money fell. At the same time, the tax was reduced by SEK 140 billion. This made it less money to spend on investments, less money to distribute to our common welfare. That is something we need to change. We need a different economic policy that looks a different way. We need to protect our welfare more in municipalities and county councils. That is why we need to take our responsibility from the state as a rich politician to ensure that the municipalities are in a position to perform well-being. Jan Ericson thinks it's because his colleagues in alliance municipalities think things are going a little better there. I mean, this is part of the segregation that we now see. In municipalities where many vote for the Alliance, you are a little more wealthy. You have well-educated parents and you feel a little better. Therefore, there are also more opportunities to make sure that your child does well in school. I see this very clearly in my own municipality of residence, Karlstad. It is a large municipality that is quite prosperous, but in the small town of Hammarö, which is located outside Karlstad, the villas are a bit more expensive. It takes a little more money in your account to make sure you can afford to live there. That's where the school is better, and that's not because the school itself is better. School results are better, but not school. This is because parents are more likely to support their children in their education. It's not the kind of society I want. I want a Sweden that holds together, a Sweden where the gaps and differences decrease. This calls for clear public governance and not for a profit hunt in welfare, as we are doing today.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1476	Mr President, I would like to It is a privilege to be last on the list of speakers this evening. Let us see if the debate continues for a little longer. We politicians in municipalities and in the national day have a great power because we decide how to use citizens' paid taxes. One of the largest items of expenditure is welfare services of various kinds. Health care, school and care are paid with tax money, but that does not mean that the government needs to perform these services. It might as well be done by private companies and non-profit organisations. It was no better in the past, as you can get the impression from some debaters. In health care it has become much better than in the past. With more choices, it is you as a patient or user, and not politicians and the system, who control what care you should have. The fact that more choices for citizens also provide higher wages and a better working environment for those who work in the healthcare sector is a bonus. More than a year ago, the government appointed an investigation to regulate freedom of choice in the welfare sector. It was an investigation whose main purpose was to limit the freedom of choice of the Swedish people by making it impossible for private performers to provide welfare services. We have all taken note of examples where private performers have not been able to take on the responsibility of being active in the welfare sector. It is clear that there is a need for review. In 2012, the Alliance appointed a special investigator to investigate what possible requirements, in addition to existing ones, can and should be imposed on those who own and run companies in the welfare sector. But there is a big difference between regulating a market so that it works better for both users and performers, which is what the Center Party and the Alliance want, compared with the government's mission to an investigator to find ways to put an end to private welfare activities and thus to diversity and choice. For me, it is important that all activities should be conducted with sound and clear criteria and continuous follow-up, whether municipal, regional, state or private. I, like everyone else in this room right now, am raised under a Social Democratic rule in Sweden where strangely few people questioned that state, county councils and municipalities were the only ones who could offer care and care. Nowadays, companies and non-profit organisations can also run health and social care activities. In many social democraticly governed municipalities and county councils it has been understood that the Swedish people do not accept that there is only one item on the shelf. Today, people want to be able to choose and opt out. Unfortunately, there are still too many red bastions in Sweden that do not want their inhabitants to have access to diversity and choice. We in the Center Party want to see even more players and even more competition. Then we can improve accessibility and quality. The red-green parties shouted loudly throughout the election campaign that profits based on public funds must be removed. It is remarkable that if this is the problem, health care is one of the last areas to be criticised. For health care is not the industry that receives the most tax money. Most tax money goes to the construction industry, followed by IT and pharmaceuticals. The construction industry gets more tax money than private care, school and care together. And the IT industry gets more tax money than the entire private healthcare business. From the red - green side it seems all right to make big profits by building a hospital, but it's not okay to make a profit by running the hospital. If you want freedom of choice and diversity for citizens, there must be several different performers who can make a profit in order to survive and develop their activities. The government obviously does not want to see this. Mr President, I would like to The most important municipal issue is resources, resources in terms of both persons and tax resources. In order to create growth in our municipalities, it is of course crucial that the tax base develops positively. Without resources, we cannot realise the will of the people. In the final year of the Alliance, it was all-time-high for municipal tax revenues. For the year 2015, it looks to be even higher. The increase in tax revenues each year is not a natural law. It requires political reforms that put resource creation at the top of the political agenda. How is tax revenue created? The government seems to believe that this is done by raising taxes, while the Center Party and the Alliance believe that the total tax revenue is increased by creating the conditions for growth. I can see that it was much better for entrepreneurs under the alliance government. We didn't have time for everything we wanted, and there are always things that could have been done better. But I share the concerns that Sweden's entrepreneurs feel about the current government. It is companies that can create jobs that give us tomorrow's welfare resources. We all know what happens in smaller municipalities, rural municipalities in particular, when jobs disappear. Quickly, a vicious spiral can start that risks leading to exodus and a decline in tax revenue. Studies show that in 20 years' time there will be more than 200 municipalities with a dependency burden where each person will support themselves and more than one person. This gap cannot be filled with increased taxes. For the finances of municipalities, it is crucial that we have efficient public services and that more tax revenue is generated by more people working. I have no doubt either the wish or the will of the entire Parliament. We all want more resources to invest in welfare, growth and jobs. But I doubt that the government has the capacity to implement the reforms that in turn generate the resources that we need for prosperity. Mr President, I would like to One to two generations ago, the Swedish people followed the decrees of Social Democratic Social Engineering. Few questioned the prevailing truth. Instead, Jag, who attended school in the 70's, taught me to question everything and stand on my own feet. It is the irony of fate that the school that the Social Democrats formulated has created a Swedish population that, according to the worldwide study World Values Survey, is extreme. We're at the far end of the corner. Through the Social Democratic School, where everyone learned to question everything and not believe in anyone, we have got such a population. The Swedish population has become individualists, which should not be confused with egoists. We don't believe in anyone. We don't believe in authority. This must be taken into account, regardless of the political colour. Backing into the future, as the Social Democrats want, is not what the Swedish people want. The tone deafness of the Social Democrats and the longing back to a bygone era will befall them themselves. The individual's freedom of choice has come to Sweden to stay forever. I support the proposal in the report as a whole.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1496	Mr President, I would like to I'll admit I wasn't going to take a line at first, but I did it anyway when I heard Peter Helander's loud voice. Peter is quite new to the Riksdag. I'm new too, but Peter's even a little newer. He succeeded Anders Ahlgren, with whom I had some debates in this House in the past. I won't say we agreed on everything, but he was an honorary man, and he had many wise points of view. On municipal issues in particular, we agreed on many occasions. Despite the high tone, I hope that Peter Helander from the Center Party and I can also agree on some issues. When I hear this speech, I feel I have to say something. Peter Helander portrays it as that the Social Democracy thinks everything was better before. That's not true. However, we are saying that it is not the best thing right now. We have a policy to develop, improve and change. It's not about backing into the future. We have not said that we are against freedom of choice, on the contrary. At the beginning of the 90's, we participated in and carried out the possibility of choosing a school, health care and long-term care. We protect that freedom. We do not want to put an end to private alternatives in welfare. We've never wanted to do that. On the other hand, we say that we do not think it is okay to have so much over-profit in welfare. We believe that welfare should be governed by a principle based on public interest conditions, i.e. that the resources we jointly set aside for common affairs should be used for this very purpose. When I hear the bourgeois representatives, I understand that they do not want to listen to this. Or they listen to it but ignore it for purely political-tactical or rhetorical reasons. That's for Peter Helander himself to answer for, I don't know. But answer me the question, Peter Helander: Do you and the Center Party think it's okay that we have a welfare without any profit restrictions, that the resources are not used for what they are supposed to be and that you have a return of 10 – 15 – 20 percent?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1501	Mr President, I would like to I thank Niklas Karlsson for that question. I understood that the directives you gave to Ilmar Reepalu with the support of the Left Party and the Green Party were about limiting welfare gains sharply, but perhaps Niklas Karlsson can say more about that himself. Then you have loosened the writing a little, for which we are grateful, but you have not come all the way. With regard to large over-profits, I would like to say that I do not think that money should disappear into tax havens either. I am absolutely convinced that almost no one in Parliament thinks so. But if it costs 1 million to run a welfare business and you hand it over to a private performer who delivers the same or higher quality at a cost of 800 000 and makes $200,000 in profit, where is the error? If the public service costs 1 million, it may not be effective enough. Then who are we to blame? Is it the case that the public service is always the one who gives the most for the money? Profits in the welfare sector arise because we have paid too much money for an activity that we believe has a certain cost. Probably we have set that level depending on what we ourselves have to cost in the public sector. Of course, the money should be used for what we want, but we must be good at making demands and following up.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1505	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear this line from Peter Helander and the Center Party. Now it's not the same high tone. If you listen very carefully you hear that there is really something else Peter Helander says in the line than in the main speech. If anyone is going to listen to this debate, it is best to listen to the line shift. I think Peter Helander ended up more right now. It is not the case that the government's directives to the Welfare Investigation were about removing the profits or severely restricting them. There were 32 directives. They were about strengthening quality and equivalence. It was also said that surpluses in business are reasonable. This is how all activities work, including municipal and public activities. 2 per cent is the guide we have for public activities in municipalities and county councils, precisely in order for us to have a good financial management. We have a principle of public interest that has applied to the housing market for many years. It has limited the profit for the public housing companies. They have been allowed to make surpluses, but not unhemular profits. Now I hear the Center Party and Peter Helander say that it is probably not reasonable to have over-profits in welfare and distribute money placed in tax havens. That's great. Say it again! We're in complete agreement. And if we have an intellectual and humble attitude – both of course – I actually believe that we are in a position to get along and also to do something good about it. Let me conclude by saying something about productivity. If it turns out that alternative operators, such as private companies, cooperatives and foundations, can carry out their activities with the same quality for less money, that is excellent. Public welfare must also deal with increased productivity. It is as the old Minister of Social Affairs Gustav Möller said: Every inefficiently used tax crown is a theft from the poor.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1509	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with that. Money must be used effectively. It is therefore strange that we should make a law here in Parliament that limits companies' ability to make profits. If a company can run a business for 700 000 which it costs 1 million to run for the public, how are we going to regulate it? Your business must cost at least 900,000, so you can buy some more furniture and fix so that you don't join so much in profit! Is that what we're gonna say?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1511	You're in the wrong way to face the problem. We need to be good at purchasing the business, making demands and following up that we are using the money in the right way. Going in and limiting companies' ability to make money will be an inefficient way. I agree, as Niklas Karlsson said earlier, that companies in the welfare sector are not an end in themselves. We want companies in the welfare sector in order for citizens to be better off. We believe that. But I am not entirely sure that the Social Democrats and their support parties feel the same way. At least it didn't sound like that in a line shift just recently. You have to make sure that the money is spent right. But going inside and limiting companies and just doing this in government is not something I believe in.
i-EGroZke9EACaCgLXepATPC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Helander, for an interesting post! Many thoughts came to mind when I heard Peter's post. Above all, I wondered how there would be more employees when the company became private, because Peter was worried that there would be no jobs in rural areas. What is seen in welfare is that fewer people are employed in private welfare companies than in public ones and that it is a way of making profits to reduce their staffing. What I want to be clear about here is that we think there should be several types of performers, but that it is about reinvesting potential profits and, above all, that the prize hunt as an incentive should end. Peter also said something very interesting in his speech. He said: It is obvious that more regulation is needed. Then I thought I'd slip into a rather constitutional question. If regulation is needed, is it not better that the government investigates what regulation is needed and presents the proposal to Parliament and that we can then say yes or no? Now the Center Party and the rest of the Alliance together the Swedish Democrats are going on a path where they say: No, we want to investigate it in this way. The Alliance itself has been in power for eight years and then has not been able to do everything you wanted but still have seen where it has been going – that the prize hunt has taken over as an incentive in welfare is clear. Yet a negative announcement was made last year stating in which direction it wanted the investigation to go. But you are not even satisfied with it, but you are also making an announcement this year. Then I'm a little worried about where we're going. When will the government be able to investigate proposals without the bourgeois majority of the parliament interfering and telling us in which direction to go? Is it not better for the government to investigate what the prize hunt should look like than that we constantly interfere with and poke on the part of the Riksdag?
i-Abh6dURW3G8KvVUZfcgQ85	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling! I'm glad you're saying that there will be more performers, because that's not really what I heard from the speaker's seat just now and which I perceived as a very left-wing, socialist speech, which I as municipal councillor in a municipality rarely hear. But I'm happy to come here to the Riksdag and hear some real left-wing speeches. It is nice to be able to take part in such a debate. When it comes to making a profit from reducing staffing, we again come to the question of how municipalities and county councils impose requirements in their procurements. We decide what we want delivered by a performer. That's how we're gonna rule. If it is the case that you can deliver a good business, better than municipal activities, by having fewer employees and the employees have good working conditions, then it is we who are doing wrong in the public sector. That is when we waste tax money and do not use it optimally. But we never have that kind of control. We also need private operators to be able to compare with public activities. You said in your speech that it is not democratic for a majority in Parliament to express its opinion. Then I wonder: Is it really the attitude of the Left Party that what Parliament thinks is not democratic? Is that the Left Party's attitude to democracy?
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1521	Mr President, I would like to I will begin with the last thought: What is democracy in Parliament? Democracy in Parliament is when you make decisions that mean, for example, that you adopt a budget or make a new law. But the question is whether it is always the case that the Riksdag should decide exactly what the government should do. According to the Constitution, the government has the power to investigate and make proposals. You and I have the right to raise motions, but we do not have the right to write a new text of the law and put it on Parliament's table, but it is something that the government has the right to do. I think it is important to see that welfare looks a little different, but that it is important to remove profit hunting as an incentive in welfare in general. That is why I think it is important that this investigation should come to important and good conclusions and that we should have a bill at Parliament's table that we can debate and take a position on, so that we can put a stop to the pursuit of profit in welfare. Yesterday we had a visit from an organization called STIL at the Group meeting of the Left Party. It is an organisation that works for personal assistance and that made sure that we got a legislation called lgen om stöd och service, LSS, which was introduced in the early 90s. They were clear that they are not against either private or public performers. For them, the most important thing is that they get a good and personal service, that they get the right to their own life, that they as citizens should be able to engage in parties or associations, have the opportunity to develop as people and be able to live equal lives. It becomes so clear that when you have the prize hunt as an incentive, it means that people do not get the service they want. That's when you rub a little bit on the personal service, on the excursion that they want to do. You push the employees who get fewer and get less hours. It's always a hunt for hours and minutes. That is what the pursuit of profit has led to in welfare.
i-336a8f2a2695e265-1526	Mr President, I would like to If we're going to talk about profit hunting in welfare, the finesse is to have multiple performers, diversity, that if you're not satisfied as a patient, patient or older, you choose a new company. You choose someone else you're happy with. When Håkan Svenneling describes it, it sounds like it is getting worse and worse, that those who use the services only suffer for it and that the staff suffer. But the whole point of diversity is that you should be able to choose where to go to get your services done. That is the whole point of diversity. Håkan Svenneling had a left-wing pathos in his speech, and I appreciate the pathos. But at least it didn't sound like he was turning for diversity and choice. It sounded more like it was better in the past when the state organized everything and we citizens did not even question that the state did everything. Today we have reached a new point in Sweden where we all appreciate the freedom of choice, although it is a bit difficult to choose electricity companies sometimes. But we appreciate that we can choose and opt out. We can also choose not to choose. This is something that I think the citizens want, so I say again that freedom of choice has come to stay in Sweden. And we need many performers in order to have freedom of choice.
