i-23765ce6404455b1-0	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me why I want to make it 20 000 SEK more expensive to buy a charging hybrid as well as how I see today's support system greatly changing and that the environmental car market gets changed conditions when a completely new system is to be introduced in just one year.
i-D4V9e9tdXfmV2viu9wQico	The Government has decided to extend the support for another two years, until 2016, and to strengthen the grant by SEK 132 million for 2015 and SEK 94 million for 2016. This means that 347 million is paid out in super-environmental car premium only for 2015 and 309 million is reserved for 2016. The reason why additional funds needed to be allocated is that the sale of super-environmental cars has increased more than expected. As Johan Hultberg says, the number of super-environmental cars is expected to increase by nearly 50 per cent in 2015 compared to the previous year. An overwhelming majority of the super-environmental car premium has so far gone to charging hybrids and only a small part to electric cars. Electric cars contribute better to the transition to a fossil-free vehicle fleet and improve air quality. At the same time, they are more expensive, so it is justified that there is an extra incentive in the super-environmental car premium for electric cars to become more common in traffic. As also stated in the question, the government intends to introduce a bonus – Malus system for light cars from 1 January 2017. On behalf of the government is currently investigating how a bonus – malus system for light vehicles can be designed. Under the directive, this bonus – malus system will reward cars with low CO2 emissions through a bonus at the time of purchase and burden cars with high emissions with higher taxes. On average, a charging hybrid emits more than 45 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre, while an electric car emits zero grams. In a bonus – Malus system the cars with the lowest emissions will be rewarded, so in this case electric cars should receive a higher premium. A differentiated super-environmental car premium after cars' carbon dioxide emissions thus contributes to a smoother transition to a bonus – malus system.
i-23765ce6404455b1-4	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply and welcome her back to the House. I hope to give the Minister the opportunity to spend some time here in 2016 discussing urgent environmental and climate issues such as this. Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to perhaps make it clear right now that what the government is doing is significantly costing the purchase of charging hybrids. The Minister's reply could easily give the impression that this differentiation is a matter of giving special preference to electric cars. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The Minister's speech on the differentiation of the super-environmental car premium is therefore about significantly reducing the conditions for the purchase of charging hybrids. It will be a halving of the super-environmental car premium, and it will be 20 000 SEK more expensive to buy a charging hybrid. To halve the premium for the purchase of charging hybrids is not a change that will lead to increased sales of electric cars, but it is a change that will only slow down the sale of charging hybrids. The consequence is that the conversion of the Swedish vehicle fleet is slowed down. I think that is very serious given the fact that the Swedish transport sector still accounts for about one third of Swedish emissions. Mr President, I would like to Let us take a moment to look back on the conversion of the Swedish fleet of vehicles. When the alliance government took office in 2006, Sweden had a very outdated and fuel-thirsty vehicle fleet, and not even 30,000 environmental cars were sold. But with the Alliance's policy and with a view to the Alliance's vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, the transition finally took off, and emissions from new cars decreased. More than 600 000 environmentally friendly cars are now rolling on Swedish roads. This positive development is the result of a very determined and ambitious policy on the part of the Alliance with concrete measures such as differentiated vehicle taxation, environmental car bonuses, reduced benefit values for environmental cars and investment in renewable fuels. Mr President, I would like to If we are to look to the future after this little retrospect, we can see that much more needs to be done despite this amazingly positive development. We have a long way to go before the vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030. Since a car in Sweden is rolling on our roads for an average of 17 years, it is extremely important which cars are rolling out in traffic today. Now one in five new cars is sold an environmental car, which is positive. But the vast majority of environmental cars sold are diesel cars. To increase the proportion of rechargeable cars, either in the form of pure electric cars or charging hybrids, the super-environmental car premium is absolutely central until we have a new bonus – the malus system in place. Last year the number of rechargeable vehicles in Sweden doubled. However, when the government now chooses to halve the premium, there is every reason to worry that this development will be slowed down. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a question, given that we now have a record new car sales and therefore a very good opportunity to get many environmental cars into traffic quickly and to take major steps in the conversion of the fleet. Is it really a wise policy to make it 20 000 kroner more expensive to buy a super-environmental car in the form of a charging hybrid?
i-23765ce6404455b1-11	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect to Mr Hultberg's commitment to environmental and climate issues, I believe that the forecast that developments in the conversion of the fleet of vehicles would stop in the coming years is completely wrong. I believe that there is enormous potential in the vehicle fleet and in the transport system for a change in which, in these years, we will see a very large shift. One such shift that we are discussing here and which is important is that cars on the roads can emit as little carbon dioxide as possible. I hope that we see that the system that we agree on will be launched, i.e. a bonus – the Malus system, that one point with such a system is precisely the flexibility to differentiate. We know that there are cars that emit very little carbon dioxide. According to statistics, electric cars have zero emissions. The vast majority of electric cars are expected to be refuelled with renewable electricity today. There are cars that release a little more. The hybrids have the potential to emit very little carbon dioxide but on average emit 45 grams per kilometre. We also have good experiences in Sweden of other completely renewable fuels where you think with ethanol or with biogas that emits very little. Biogas produced from household waste has a life cycle that is almost zero or even plus because it takes care of things that would otherwise leak out. We have diesel cars that can have very efficient engines and a little older ones that have less efficient engines. And we also have old petrol cars. New fuels are therefore needed for old engines in order for us to cope with a very rapid phase-out of this. I am glad that we share the view that it is good that more people choose a car that produces very low climate emissions. On the other hand, I am totally opposed to the idea that the state and the government choose to give less support to the charging hybrids. To allocate 309 million for a single year to the super-environmental car premium is the more than the Alliance allocated for the entire two-year period when the aid was introduced. This will go to a number of charging hybrids, each receiving 20 000 SEK in support. However, within this framework, we want to reward those electric cars that actually emit less carbon dioxide, and I think that is quite logical. It makes perfect sense with the system we are moving towards, and it is perfectly logical in the climate debate that the best are constantly rewarded and, within that framework, ensures that it is zero emissions – the pure electric cars – that receive a discounted price of SEK 40 000. It is simply the case that the transition will go faster and that we are more in line with the system that will come into place. I note, Mr President, that, with the policy of the Alliance, we would now have an enormous shift in what the system of aid for environmental cars would look like. There is no unanimous policy there. After all, one of Johan Hultberg's alliance partners is proposing the complete abolition of the super-environmental car premium, and I notice that there is no uniform support for national support for the expansion of electricity infrastructure. It is extremely important, not least, for the charging hybrids, to ensure that you can go on electricity as often as possible, and to ensure that the clean electric cars – which today have a range of 10 – 150 km, Mr President – actually work throughout Sweden. The charging infrastructure at national level is therefore extremely important, and the government is doing a great deal there.
i-23765ce6404455b1-17	Mr President, I would like to The Minister continues to engage in the discussion on the differentiation of the super-environmental car premium. I think it is reasonable for us to differentiate aid for environmental cars, and that is how the Minister describes the very point of the bonus – the Malus system. We will support the environmental best cars most, and then on a falling scale depending on performance. Those who have high-emission cars should pay the most. However, the differentiation that the government is now making of the super-environmental car premium is only about the deterioration of the charging hybrids. It is therefore 20 000 SEK more expensive to buy such a car, and I do not think that is a smooth transition to a bonus – the malus system. Instead, it is a blow to the positive development we are now making with regard to rechargeable electric cars. Last year 345 000 new cars were sold in Sweden. I think we should take this opportunity to really try to get out as many clean electric cars and rechargeable cars as possible, given the fact that an average car in Sweden is rolling on the Swedish roads for 17 years. If we are to reach the goal of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030, it is very important that we ensure that it is cars with good climate and environmental performance that roll out on Swedish roads. It has contributed to the super-environmental car premium; the development has gone faster than we thought. That is why the appropriations have not been sufficient, and we have had the opportunity to add more money. I note that the Minister and the Government wanted to cut the appropriations significantly already in last year's budget. Because it was the Alliance's budget that won then the grant for the super environmental car premium was over 100 million higher. Compare us The Moderates' draft budget with the Government, I note that the Moderates have an additional SEK 41 million for the super-environmental car premium and that we can therefore retain the premium of 40 000 even to the charging hybrids pending the introduction of the new bonus – the Malus system. Speaking of bonuses – the Malus system, I would like to ask the Minister a question of control given that unfortunately we have a government that has broken a great many promises. Can the Minister really guarantee that we will have a proposal in Parliament for a well-designed bonus system – malus well in advance of 2017? It is extremely important that the operators are now given clear information about the conditions for the Swedish environmental car market. The twitchiness that occurs when you now change the super environmental car premium at very short notice creates uncertainty and slows the transition. We saw that the sales of charging hybrids doubled in December compared to November, and that is, of course, a consequence of consumers seeing conditions deteriorate. I find it difficult to see how the Minister argues that the policy pursued will lead to more people choosing to buy a super-environmental car when it simply becomes 20 000 SEK more expensive to buy one. I'd like the Minister to try to figure that out. For me, it is quite obvious that fewer will make climate-smart choices if it becomes more expensive to do so. Sure, a clean electric car is better than a charging hybrid. That's it. But we must look outside the Chamber and state that Sweden is a large and elongated country. Many do not make it to the reach of a pure electric car, and so we must ensure that those living outside our major cities and rural areas also have the opportunity to make climate-smart choices. Then the charging hybrid is a very good option, and I regret that the government makes it more expensive to make that choice.
i-23765ce6404455b1-24	Mr President, I would like to I will try to be educational and say how increased support from the government in order for those who buy cars in the car market to make the best environmental choice possible comes from the fact that we now spend 309 million for 2016 in super-environmental car premium and that we differentiate it so that those who choose a zero emission car – a pure electric car – get more and that those who choose to buy a good environmental car – a charging hybrid – get something less. It simply means that more people will receive support. On the other hand, the frame increases, and more people choose to buy charging hybrids. There are consumers for whom it is a very good choice, and they also have to choose in terms of scope. If we talk about emissions, a biogas car today is an alternative, but with today's rules it does not receive super-environmental car support. I think that in a bonus – the Malus system will even out the technology a little bit between the different cars seen from the point of view of emissions. I think, however, that those who choose a charging hybrid and get support for it with 20 000 SEK will be more, because the money is enough for more. The twitchiness that has been in recent years is, of course, linked to the fact that it is difficult for the state to predict how a market develops. I myself belong to those who took advantage of the situation of ralliing during the first year with the super environmental car premium, because there were so very few cars. They had gone out so big that they would give the support and that the electric car market would then flourish, and that was not the case. It didn't happen. Now, however, the effect has begun to come, and we shall continue to support it. Therefore, I want to make it clear that the government is holding support for environmental cars in Sweden to reduce twitchiness. We therefore ensured in the autumn's budget that it contributed quite large sums to ensure that all those who had bought on the premises at the time – i.e. SEK 40 000 in support to all, both pure electric cars and charging hybrids – could receive support. This meant that in the 2015 budget we had a total of 347 million to distribute. This meant that there were quite a lot of people who could get support in the higher frame even for charging hybrids. To ensure that more people are able to choose environmentally friendly cars such as electric cars and charging hybrids, we make a differentiation. We see that we are thus also adapting the system so that the twitchiness compared to a bonus – the Malus system from 2017 is reduced. I believe that this is a policy that is exactly the way environmental and climate policy must be. It should be based on a long-term perspective and on the continuation of reforms. The Green Party was not involved, nor were the Social Democrats, in proposing the super-environmental car premium, but we have ensured that it will still be taken care of until we have a bridge into a new system. I am pleased that we agree that a bonus – the Malus system would suit the Swedish car market better. However, care must be taken to adapt and adjust on the basis of constantly premiuming what is very best for the environment. There I would like to ask a question, Johan Hultberg. You say that it is clear that the pure electric car is an environmentally better option and that it has less emissions. Today it has a range of 10 - 150 km one way, between charging points. We are improving the charging infrastructure; within the framework of climate change, decisions have already been made on over 1,100 charging stations nationally in Sweden. How come you don't want to differentiate this premium and give more to those who choose pure electric cars, Johan Hultberg?
i-23765ce6404455b1-31	Mr President, I would like to I think it is very positive that Åsa Romson has gone from ragging over the super environmental car premium to today stating that it fulfils an important function and has helped to really boost the sales of the absolutely climate smartest cars. It's welcome. But to say that it is a long-term policy to change the terms of the premium, when there is a year left until a whole new system is introduced, is very strange to me. With regard to the design of the current aid schemes, one can of course wonder whether it would not have been a differentiation of the pure electric cars and the charging hybrids from the outset. But the most important thing when the electricity premium was introduced was to get to sell the very rechargeable cars in total and that we set a limit so that the cars with emissions below 50 grams would be allowed to take part in the premium. In practice, it has become pure electric cars and rechargeable cars. Forward, in the new system, it is important that we have a differentiation. However, the claim that it is long-term that with a year's more severe deterioration of conditions is not true. It is serious to make it 20 000 SEK more expensive to make a climate-smart choice, and it will particularly affect those living outside our major cities. This testifies once again that the Green Party is not in favour of a policy for the whole of Sweden, but has a tendency to look at Stockholm's conditions rather than the whole of Sweden. To conclude, Mr President, I can only note that since the appointment of the Minister for Climate Change, refuelling has become more expensive. It has become more expensive to have an environmental car as a company car, and now it has also become more expensive to buy a super environmental car. I deeply regret that.
i-23765ce6404455b1-35	Mr President, I would like to More and more people also make an environmentally friendly choice when buying a car. It is something that will accelerate and will need to accelerate, and the government will support such acceleration. I think the honourable Member is poorly updated on the technological developments that are taking place in electric cars. The update currently applies to the scope, because clean electric cars are making strong progress. The picture that is painted that a pure electric car does not work anywhere in Sweden except in the inner city areas is completely wrong. There are a lot of locations and places in Sweden where a pure electric car is an extremely good choice to give the smallest emissions. That is what the government takes on board when we put our policies in place to ensure the perseverance of the system. Everyone has known in good time for 2016 that the differentiation would be introduced. It also allows us to know with greater certainty that the money will be enough. What has been the uncertainty, Mr President, in how to support super-environmental cars in Sweden has been that the system has developed into a first come, because once a new period has been launched, it has been said that the money is already over. We want to avoid that. Therefore, we are introducing a more robust, environmentally safe system that will enter the new bonus – the Malus system. With this, Mr President, I would like to thank you for a pleasant first interpellation debate in the new year. It is fun to keep it on such important issues as climate policy and not least on the development of the fleet. We will see which of the honourable Member and me is right in that the conversion of the fleet will move forward and lead to more climate-smart cars in the future.
i-23765ce6404455b1-39	Mr President, I would like to I also wish to see a good continuation of the new year, as it is also my debut in the interpellation debates this year. Hans Rothenberg has asked Minister Aida Hadzialic about whether the Government considers it desirable for the degree to be taken within a shorter period of time than the study plan stipulates, whether the Government sees the student funds as an incentive to stimulate faster studies and what other incentives the Government sees can primarily help to stimulate faster studies. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The study funding system provides for the maximum length of time a student can receive student funding, and there are also requirements for the results of studies to be provided. The provisions aim to encourage well-planned and effective studies. In addition, a clearer requirement for study performance in the assessment of continued entitlement to study funding applies since 1 July 2010. This aims, among other things, to promote an increased throughput in the university. At the same time, it is important that the study funding system enables and promotes broad recruitment to the university. For the individual, there are additional reasons to carry out their education effectively. A shorter training period results in reduced indebtedness and increased life pay, which in turn leads to a higher pension. For a student there is always the opportunity to shorten their study time by increasing their study effort, by studying summer courses or by studying extra courses during the semester. Summer courses and distance learning are in many cases an important complement to the regular range of courses offered at a university. I think it is important that students also during the summer are given good opportunities to study courses that are relevant for a future degree. This can give students increased opportunities to shorten the time until graduation. The report on Higher Education for 20 years proposes measures in these areas. The government is currently preparing the views of the consultation bodies.
i-23765ce6404455b1-46	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. This is actually the third minister involved in this issue. I started by asking a written question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, who balled it over to Minister Aida Hadzialic. When I did not receive a satisfactory answer to the question, I asked Aida Hadzialic an interpellation, and now it is Hellmark Knutsson who has taken over it, so I assume that the answer is very well prepared within the government. Mr President, I would like to In many respects, Sweden has a well-functioning study support system. A student loan is a long-term and mutual commitment for both the student and society. For the student, the student loan is hopefully a ticket to future income and for society an investment in skills that can benefit society. Over time, the eligible courses have become more extensive and take longer to complete. This means that student debt is increased, which of course also affects the repayment and the possibility of repaying it. The longer the study time and higher student loans, the higher the expenditure for the individual during the refund period. And for the state, it means a larger loan item over time. It is in the interest of both the individual borrower and the State that the loan burden is not too high. If the studies are carried out faster than the study plan indicates, this means that the individual student does not have to take as much student loans, while the government can keep the amount of loans down. It is an advantage for both parties. Therefore, a model with incentives for faster studies would be welcome. For example, it could mean that the individual borrower could be offered more favourable terms for repayment if the study is completed with a degree faster than the study plan stipulates. Such incentives could be either an offer of lower than usual interest rates, a possible discount on the amount of the refund, or another solution that could justify faster studies. Please note that these are just some suggestions as to how such incentives could work. Mr President, I would like to I asked the Minister three questions to which I do not see any concrete answers in the answer. Therefore, I would like to repeat them and be made clear if the Government considers it desirable that the degree should be taken in a shorter time than the study plan stipulates. In the Minister's reply here, she said that it is good if you supplement and summer read. Would it be desirable, however, that one can cope with one's studies more quickly? Furthermore, I wonder whether the Government sees the means of study as an incentive to stimulate faster studies. What other incentives – and now I am talking about incentives, to stimulate and encourage – does the Government see primarily that can help to achieve faster studies, for the benefit of both the student and the state?
i-23765ce6404455b1-53	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Rothenberg for the questions. Our replies from the Government Office are always well prepared, too. I think it is desirable that you can manage your studies more quickly if you wish. The most important thing for me is to ensure that all higher education is of high quality and that full-time full-time studies are carried out. Unfortunately, there are some indicators that all education is not full-time, even though it is said so. It's just as much a problem to deal with. Therefore, unlike the Moderates, we add SEK 250 million in quality money to get more teacher-led lessons on the courses where we see that it is too little of this. To ensure that we have full-time studies and that they are carried out effectively I think is number one. We will also ensure that there is an opportunity to study a degree faster or to broaden a degree by, for example, studying relevant summer courses or taking additional courses during the semesters. It is quite possible to do this already today, but according to the study Lars Haikola has submitted to us, Higher Education for twenty years, is a clear trend that the possibility of studying independent courses, summer courses and supplementary courses has decreased over time. The investigator therefore suggests that no one should take a closer look at it. As I said in the answer, this has been out for a referral, and now we are dealing with referrals to see what reduces this possibility and what we can do to increase it. The means of study can, of course, influence. That is why it is important that we have good student funding for everyone. It allows for wider recruitment and participation so that anyone who wants to can come to higher education regardless of their parents' background. We see that the study funds have some effect, but it is important to remember that only just over 70 percent of those who read have study funds. This means that study funds only affect those who have study funds, not the others. Therefore, it is perhaps mainly other incentives that could contribute. Not least, it is about ensuring that there is a good choice and good study planning and support for students so that we reduce the risk of re-election and drop-out that prolongs study time. Having a good working life relationship, guidance and the opportunity to make informed choices to the university is just as important.
i-23765ce6404455b1-62	Mr President, I would like to It was good that we were told that it is desirable to read faster. There is no doubt whatsoever that we are in complete agreement with regard to student funding. It is very good that this model exists, and there is no reason to question it. However, there may be a need to see whether the study aid model can be used as an incentive, as an incentive and as a tool to be able to carry out studies more quickly. When I was in my 20s in the early 80s, the average debut age for full-time supply was over 20 years. Five years ago the corresponding age was 27. In the early 80s, people retired at about 63 years of age. Today, the average real retirement age is a little over 60 years. This means that the time worked during life has become shorter. This also reduces the time you earn yourself, contributes tax money to the state and has the opportunity to repay your study money. We all agree that in the future people will have to work further up in their ages, if possible. Then it is also important to get started as early as possible. This is a social problem which I think we need to raise in the debate much more than has been done so far. I've had Parliament's investigation service conduct an investigation. It has looked at what it looks like today when it comes to obtaining a degree during a prescribed period of study. It turns out that it is a very small percentage that takes their degree faster than the nominal period of study. Most common among biomedical analysts. This is 11 percent. Among doctors and economists, 8 and 7 per cent take their degree faster. The share of those who graduate exactly in nominal study time is highest among physiotherapists, nurses and occupational therapists. That's 30 – 40 percent. However, the proportion who graduate after longer than normal studies is highest for civil engineers, 55 per cent, engineering engineers and lawyers, both 50 per cent. These are long courses from the beginning, and they cost money to produce. As these courses take a long time, they also mean higher study funding costs and longer payback periods for many people. Overall, the proportion of graduates in the normal study period is highest among physiotherapists, occupational therapists and others. It is a problematic situation that it is a much larger part of the students who take longer to finish their degree than it is that makes it faster. That is why I am looking at how we should find models to stimulate and encourage this. Summer courses and extra courses have always been an opportunity for the diligent person to take the initiative. There is nothing to prevent you from reading the course literature one semester in advance. But I'm interested in how to stimulate faster studies. What political tools are there to bring about this?
i-23765ce6404455b1-75	Mr President, I would like to I dare not guess when Hans Rothenberg was 20 years old. It's always hard to guess people's age. But it is true that Sweden has a high age of tertiary education compared to other OECD countries. It depends on several things. On the other hand, Swedish pupils start comprehensive school later, and Swedish young people often wait to start their post-secondary studies. There are other things that affect this as well. As I mentioned earlier, effective and well-functioning study guidance is crucial for reducing drop-outs and re-election. You were into the flow of higher education, Hans Rothenberg. This is an important issue on which the government is putting a great deal of effort now and continue to do so. We need to analyse what the lack of throughput is due to. These were interesting figures that you presented, and they correspond to what we have already seen. When it comes to, for example, engineering training, we have talks with the universities that run them, and they say they have problems with the flow. It can be about what support you get during your studies but also about what preparations you make to complete the studies. It can be linked to admission systems and how to get into higher education. Increasing the throughput of, for example, engineering education is important, and I believe that it is very much about the quality of higher education and that there are good teacher resources. This means that we need to strengthen the quality of all higher education, not least in basic education. As I said earlier, it also applies to homing education, i.e. humanist and social science education, where, for example, legal education is available. We know that sometimes it is too few teacher-led hours, which makes it difficult for a student to have a good relationship with his or her teacher. This also affects the flow and good study results. Strengthening quality is by far the most important thing we can do to increase throughput and to ensure that you study full time. Then we will increase the opportunity for more people to be able to study summer courses and extra courses if they want to complete their degree much earlier than normal. There is no reason to prolong it more than necessary. We want to ensure that as many people as possible have the right conditions for carrying out their higher studies. I would also like to point out the personal incentives, because they are important. Waiting for a long time with the entry into the labour market plays a role in the pay of life, and it ultimately plays a role in pension provision. As I said, it also increases the debt that comes with it. In addition to the social impact, there is also a personal impact. Here I think it is important that we support the students in both study guidance and in getting an even better working relationship in all higher education.
i-23765ce6404455b1-84	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the answers. During this discussion, we have noted that the Minister and the Government consider it desirable to increase the pace of study. We have received examples of some tools to stimulate increased quality in education and training and so on. As always when it comes to a government with a slightly reddish shade, there will be a discussion about who puts the most money into the system. The Minister mentioned the money bag earlier. Of course you will always win there, Helene Hellmark Knutsson, because you will always spend more tax money on everything. It is about how you look at taxation. This is another discussion, and we will probably come back to it in principle in every interpellation debate during the rest of this parliamentary term. However, I have not yet heard the Minister say anything about how to use the study aid instrument as a tool. I understand that there may be a need to have a little discussion with the Minister of Finance before we do anything about it. That could be the case. The study funding system is designed to enable people – young people and students – who may not have resources with them from home or their own economy. This is to stimulate and make it possible to read on. Then it should also be possible to use this instrument as a tool to stimulate faster studies. After all, a small discount on repayment could mean less debt. It is certainly worth putting in that discount for the state, after counting on it at the Ministry of Finance. I thank you for the debate and look forward to Sweden getting wise students in the future who come out a little faster than they do today.
i-23765ce6404455b1-90	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Rothenberg for a good discussion on a very urgent issue. It's probably true that we look at it a little differently from the outside if we belong to the red or the blue team. We see that this is an investment in investing in quality in higher education. Expanding more university platforms is also an investment. It is about meeting societal challenges but also business needs. This is what we are trying to face. It is about using tax resources efficiently and investing them where they do the most good. It goes without saying that as Minister of Higher Education and Research, I think they are doing the most good there. I am therefore pleased that we are making these quality efforts. I am also pleased that we are expanding higher education. However, we need to do more, because I share the view that it should be possible to graduate faster. We certainly do not need to prolong it, but we need to ensure that full-time studies are indeed full-time and that everyone has good quality education. As I have said before, it is important at a general level that it is good in order to give everyone the opportunity to read on regardless of socio-economic background. We seem to agree on that. But there are limited effects of making individual solutions. For me, it is more important to ensure the quality of higher education and increase the opportunities for students to make good choices.
i-23765ce6404455b1-96	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar has asked Housing, Urban Development and IT Minister Mehmet Kaplan what he intends to do to ensure that tenants will not suffer financial damage from the relocation in connection with the urban transformation in Kiruna and Gällivare. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Like Nooshi Dadgostar, the government believes it is important to protect tenants and rents. The government wants to promote rental rights as a modern and safe form of housing. Among other things, an investigation into strengthening the position of tenants has been set up. In the cases of Kiruna and Gällivare/ Malmberget, housing is demolished in areas affected by mining and replaced by new housing. In Kiruna, large parts of the city will be moved to a new location, and in Malmberget dwellings will be demolished, which will be replaced by new ones in Gällivare. The relocation process takes place over a relatively long period of time. With current mining levels in the mines, the decommissioning in Kiruna and Malmberget is estimated to continue for about 20 more years. LKAB and its Board of Directors are responsible for the company's operational operations, which includes the management of costs associated with urban transformation. The starting point is that urban transformations should be managed within existing legislation and that the relevant costs should be borne by the one causing them. It is important that the company has a constructive dialogue with stakeholders in the context of urban transformation. As far as the tenants' situation is concerned, there is a dialogue with the Tenant Association. The company reports that since 2009, approximately 400 households with rental rights in LKAB's portfolio have moved from areas affected by mining activities. These have been allowed to submit requests for their future accommodation, and most have received new accommodation within the existing stock where rental levels and standards are similar to what they are moving from. The tenants have been given priority to vacant housing within the existing stock. A newly built dwelling normally has a higher standard than the dwellings that are demolished. This means that these tenants have to pay a higher rent. Any move to new production has so far been voluntary as replacement housing has been offered in the existing stock. According to LKAB's remuneration principles, all local tenants, regardless of their landlord, will be offered priority housing within LKAB's existing portfolio. There is an agreement between LKAB and the Tenants' Association where all the tenants involved in the resorts moving to new production are offered a gradual increase in rent, so-called an increase in rent.
i-23765ce6404455b1-103	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Today, a urban transformation is taking place in the municipalities of Gällivare and Kiruna in order for LKAB to continue mining ore. It is therefore state-called for, and it is state interests that are responsible for the fact that many people now need to move and that the move is to be carried out. The meaning is that rental apartments that people live in will be demolished and then replaced with new apartment buildings that the tenants will move to. The problem with this is that tenants are at risk of significantly increasing new production rents. I would like to continue to say that it is state interests that have led to the demolition of the country. It is not the property owners or the tenants themselves who have taken this initiative. New production rents would in many cases double the rent that tenants currently have. For most, it seems unreasonable for current tenants to pay for mining from their own wallet. The thing is that the property owners in the area, for their part, receive a very generous offer from LKAB. Either they get their property redeemed at 1.25 times the market value or they get a replacement property. This means that landlords and homeowners will have a higher standard in connection with the urban transformation, which means lower operating costs, while tenants will have to take the big blow through higher rents to a landlord who will himself have reduced costs. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister himself feels that this does not make sense. It's not reasonable, and it's not fair. What worries me is that many people think that the Minister and the Government have not managed the urban transformation and what is now happening in connection with the urban transformation in a good way. For example, one could read in the newspaper that Gruvtolvan's chairman Jan Thelin was very unhappy with the way the minister has handled the urban transformation. He says, "The government has not taken the grip on LKAB. –– – At the moment, the government should engage even more, not least with regard to the urban transformation in Kiruna. But not even the municipal management one gets through, as I understand it. He is also personally disappointed with the Prime Minister, who has not done this well. It is of great concern to the Left Party that it does not appear that the Minister has been involved in the matter and is concerned about the tenants who will now possibly have to double their housing costs. It is important that the government makes it clear that tenants who do not want to and cannot move into new production to new production rentals should not be forced to do so. It's the entrance of the Left Party. It is important that there should be a fair relationship between those living in a villa and those who currently live in a rental apartment. The government and the Minister are quite right to say in their reply that the relevant costs should be borne by those who cause them. 中 Tenants should not be subject to higher costs. It is therefore important for LKAB to ensure that available apartments in the older portfolio are available for lower rent. At the same time, we should know that it is not likely that moving chains will solve the problem for all tenants. The share of newly produced rental apartments will be significantly higher than in comparable areas – that's the case – and access to older rental apartments with lower rents will be greatly reduced. The Minister needs to go in and clearly give LKAB a mission to handle the situation better.
i-YCTijgFa4zJvk9fx4EGRua	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Enterprise and Innovation, for the answer and thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar, for the interpellation! There is something I think is the crux of the matter. LKAB is actually trying to find a solution, with the staircase that the Minister is talking about, based on their agreement. But what does not emerge is that LKAB had an original proposal. If there is no apartment in the existing holding at LKAB and you have to move to a newly produced apartment, you will get a rental staircase there. But you shouldn't really be affected by a rent increase. If there is an apartment in the old stock afterwards, you have to choose: Either you move to the old stock or you get a rent increase. But it disappeared in the dialogue that once existed. I don't know why. It may have been realised that it will cost and that there will simply not be enough apartments in the old stock. But it was a walkable road that existed: Okay, you will have to move to a new apartment, but you will never be touched by what is the running point. Why should tenants receive higher rents when, on the contrary, those who own the properties receive lower rent, get better standard, newer and fresher properties with lower consumption of energy and other things? This does not apply to tenants, and it is regrettable. One more thing: What do the owner and you who are responsible for state companies, Mikael Damberg? How active should an owner of state-owned companies be? You refer many times to the operational operations, that LKAB's Board should handle this. Do the owner and you who are responsible for government companies think that you should keep track of your companies? Are you going to be an active owner, so that all the time you know what's going on in the corporations, so there won't be any surprises for us taxpayers, so we wonder what happened? I think it is very important that we have an active owner who looks after the companies and knows what is happening in the companies. If at some point you need to point with your whole hand, then that's what it takes to secure a good exit in many situations. Now that we're dealing with the tenants, I'm not going into anything else. But I would like to ask: does the Minister of Economic Affairs think it is important that one is an active owner who really is committed to the companies and not only goes to general meetings when things are going well for the companies and it is fun but also has control of their companies in other times?
i-23765ce6404455b1-121	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the interpellation! I'll start with Birger Lahti's thoughts. It is very important that you are the active owner of the state companies. No company is well off by an owner who is not active, has control and also asks relevant questions and ensures that the board that is appointed does what it has to do. The division of responsibilities is important. To run a double command and run a company from two directions, I absolutely don't believe in. This is also why the government in what has been reported in the form of State ownership policy and guidelines for state-owned companies clarifies the relationship between owner, board and management. It is the Board of Directors of the companies in which the State holds a participation that is responsible for managing them exemplaryly within the existing framework, with laws, articles of association, any ownership instructions and the State's ownership policy. It is incredibly important to know the division of responsibilities. If we are talking about LKAB: Since LKAB was hit by the lower ore prices, I do not think there is any other state company that I have spent more time with as Minister of Ownership. Just to give an example with the new CEO who has arrived at LKAB: In the short time he has been CEO, I have discussed with him on three occasions the situation for the company, the searches now being carried out by the company, the plans ahead and how to deal with the company's future. For us as taxpayers, LKAB is one of the most important companies in the state's portfolio. Right now, all mining companies on the international stage are under enormous pressure from the low ore prices. I have no mission but to ensure that we manage these assets in a long-term good way, so that LKAB gets through this difficult time and can be strong not only this year and next year but in five and ten years, because it is important not only for Kiruna and Norrbotten but also for Sweden as an industrial nation. I take LKAB's development very seriously. On the question of the status of tenants: It is important to realise that the urban transformation that is taking place naturally puts quite a strain on these communities. Not everything is perceived as fun when demolishing parts of cities and moving cities. It may in some sense feel forced, as the business is the cause of the move. On the other hand, my picture, when I have visited these places in many different contexts, is that the local people are well aware that it is about the future of the mine, that it depends on where the mine bodies go and where you have to extract the ore and that that is the reason for the urban transformation. This is strongly supported because it is known that it is in much of the basis of the economy and the future that societies are looking forward to. It is clear that it will very likely mean that some will have to move a little against their will and that some may not get the priority they had dreamed of. Then there is the stairway negotiated with the Tenant Association on how to move from one dwelling to another without affecting the rent level at once. I can conclude my first speech by saying that this situation is not entirely different from another situation that tenants may suffer when they are affected by a renovation that they may not have decided on themselves, and that after the renovation becomes higher standards and therefore also higher rents in the rental portfolio. It is not entirely separate from other activities where tenants are actually affected.
i-23765ce6404455b1-129	Mr President, I would like to There will be problems when those who may have the weakest income feel that they will have to pay the most for this, because the landlords and the homeowners are overcompensated in the move. That is what I think will be the injustice in this, and the Minister is not really responding to it. There is no agreement between LKAB and the Tenant Association. I have asked representatives of the Tenant Association, and they told me that for over a year they have been trying to negotiate with LKAB a letter of intent but that LKAB has so far chosen not to sign it. I would like it to be done, quite simply. The letter of intent is based on the idea of increasing the mobility of the property portfolio so that the tenant can be offered an apartment. Greater mobility can come about through this stairway that we all agree on, and that is a positive thing if you want to do so. However, if there are not enough apartments in the older stock of similar size and rent, LKAB must resolve it through a personal discount on the rent for a newly produced apartment of similar size. That's the point. For many people, the five-year escalation does not mean a good enough deal. For five years you get a disposable income that is smaller. That's the result. If you want to go to a newly produced apartment with a fairly large increase in rent, it is good, but if that is not possible, LKAB needs to agree to the letter of intent that has been discussed together with the Tenant Association and that has been around all the time but from which you now back off. Then it would also be good to remember that this only applies to LKAB's own property portfolio and that the problem of course remains for tenants with other property owners. It would be good if LKAB, together with the Tenant Association and other affected property owners, agreed on a common solution. For many people in this area, the private economy is in danger of deteriorating significantly. As the Minister says, many people want to remain in their area. The possibility of moving from the municipality is completely limited, and many do not, but you may be forced to do so if you have to move into a newly produced apartment with the rent that it entails. I think it would be reasonable that if there are not enough apartments in the older stock, the tenant should be allowed to move into new production to the old rent. It is difficult to see why LKAB would not agree to this. The cost of this is small. If you can afford to subsidise cleaning aid for rich Stockholmers, you can well afford to give a rent discount to the individuals who are severely affected by this. It is clear that it matters that it is the State company that is the source of this, because the Minister has the opportunity to influence. There are no nearby municipalities or areas to move to. In larger cities, there might have been. The scale is very large here, and we risk getting a model where it is those with the weakest economy who have to pay the very highest price for this urban transformation. In the long term, current legislation can be discussed and amended – it is necessary enough – but the urban transformation is now under way, and this is a very special situation. The legislators may not have thought of this before, but now we can do it. Then it is reasonable for state companies to compensate property owners and tenants in the same way.
i-23765ce6404455b1-137	Mr President, I would like to What I can still keep up with is that the Minister says that the state company that he has had the most contact with since he took office is LKAB and the new CEO there, and that is good. M a picture painted in the media in Norrbotten is not the same as the one given here today. Nooshi was aware that there was a letter of intent between LKAB and the Tenant Association. I visited them last autumn, and the letter of intent was ready to be signed, but they backed. The Minister is right that if it is somewhere that you understand this, it is in Malmberget, Gällivare and Kiruna. There are few who oppose this. They understand that it is LKAB who makes these places at all – there is goodwill there – but that the weakest will have to pay the price because the ore prices went down and that therefore you back down is fucking wrong. It's fucking wrong that the weakest people in society pay for the fact that the ore prices happened to go down just when you were going to make a deal. The agreement was based on the fact that if you live in a newly produced apartment and there then appears an older apartment in the stock you should choose – either you take the apartment in the older stock or you accept the rent increase. Then it's OK, as I see it.
i-23765ce6404455b1-140	Mr President, I would like to I think this issue has ended up in a difficult situation because people are rather worried about what happens to LKAB's position in the long term. It is not only what is happening with the urban transformation that affects LKAB, it is also the technical and economic conditions for future mining levels and how to manage the investments required. Then all costs are included. This does not mean that LKAB is in any way affected by the lower ore price in its responsibility for urban transformation. If you want to down at a lower level in the mine and it affects the city so that it has to be moved, you have a responsibility to reimburse the relevant costs for this. This is the compensation that LKAB is negotiating with stakeholders. The difference between me and the Left Party is to really see that LKAB is responsible for running this as a company and that as a minister I am not responsible for determining which level of agreement LKAB should decide on. I hope that agreement will be reached with everyone so that there will be a good agreement with the parties concerned. However, if these agreements do not agree, it is ultimately a legal process that will be decided in court. I think it would be strange if the Riksdag or the Government had a principled idea of exactly what level all agreements should be set at, because LKAB has a responsibility to pursue this issue and also agree with the parties. LKAB has presented the principles they have considered applicable to the remuneration. If you move into an apartment with higher quality and value, it is just like with other rental apartments. Now we have no legislation, as was pointed out by the interpellant, which says exactly how it should be done in such a situation, but we have another legislation that says that a tenant who lives in a stock to be renovated and thus gets a higher rent must decide whether to stay or go somewhere else. What LKAB has done is that, as I understood it and tried to say, this stairway has been agreed. In addition to what applies if you had only renovated or built new, it has also been agreed to have a step model that means that the rent increase does not happen immediately. I understand that there is a picture that it was still a better system than that it would just be a higher rent. I think LKAB has shown that efforts have been made to find a model to deal with this. I think that both LKAB's and Kiruna's municipalities would have liked everyone who wanted to stay in an old holding with low rent to do so. Now that housing is not enough when you have to move parts of the city and tear down the existing stock. We all know that building new dwellings is always more expensive than old ones. That's the problem. Should all people have somewhere to stay, some will need to live in new apartments. I take this issue very seriously. I will follow it, and we will also have an ore field group where we discuss not only urban transformation but above all the new challenges that LKAB is facing. I think it is important to remember that the costs that are now incurred, whether in mining or urban transformation, will be included in the calculation for LKAB to see if it is able to make all the investments needed for the future. My main responsibility for the company must be to ensure that the company acts correctly but also that it conducts progressiveity discussions and rather difficult efficiency discussions in order to be competitive in the future.
i-23765ce6404455b1-147	Mr President, I would like to I do not really think the Minister has understood what the difference is between what is happening in Kiruna and Gällivare municipalities and what is usually going on in the housing market. When property owners and tenants negotiate renovations, it is usually called for that the standard is too low, and then there is a negotiation between tenants and property owners, which we have agreed on legally earlier. The difference here is that it is called for by state LKAB, and it is the Minister who is ultimately responsible for this. There's a big difference. We have never experienced this before. There is nothing legally preventing the Minister from assigning the company to which the Minister is responsible for treating property owners and tenants equally in this very special situation. In the long run, we can, of course, amend the legislation so that we are prepared in future if a city may need to be relocated. However, in this particular situation, we need to treat everyone equally so that the strong concern that is now present among many tenants does not arise because they see that they will not be able to afford to pay their housing costs. There is a huge difference between new production rent and the rent they have paid before. Then you can do the way that was proposed in the letter of intent, which has already been discussed and agreed but which LKAB has now strangely backed away from. That's the point. It is a commitment that creates only a very marginal state financial impact. I really want to push it. New production of housing, for example, already provides large VAT revenues to the state. This won't cost much, and it doesn't require much of the government. But it would mean an incredible amount to thousands that development remains good in these municipalities.
i-23765ce6404455b1-151	Mr President, I would like to The important principle here is that it is the operator that causes damage or creates a situation that requires a transfer of tenants, in this case a company called LKAB that has state ownership, that will reimburse for the relevant costs that arise. I think that LKAB has and should continue to have a dialogue with parties and actors locally in those communities. And I think they have shown that they are trying to find constructive ways, not least through the stairs but also through the guarantee they have tried to introduce. This means that when a leave in the existing LKAB tenant portfolio arises, priority should be given to the location. In this way, LKAB has tried to find ways forward on these issues. I also understand that LKAB will be looking at whether there are special groups that get very tight. Then you are prepared to discuss it to see what to do in the special cases. When a tenant moves to an apartment that has higher standard, higher use value, in a normal rental market, there can also be a higher rent. There will be a voluntary choice for some in this situation. Some want to move to better housing when the urban transformation takes place. You might want to move to a better location in the resort. But it can also be that the old apartments are not enough. Then LKAB has proposed the stairs to find a use of the costs up to the new rent and with the new value for use. I will definitely listen to the actors involved here. But I don't want to change the division of responsibilities. We have given LKAB and LKAB's Board the responsibility to manage the company's future. The company will manage urban transformation in a cost-effective way but also cope with future investments that the company faces. It is not easy on the current world market. The board has a very difficult and heavy responsibility in this matter.
i-23765ce6404455b1-156	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the conditions for women to start and run businesses in Sweden. Furthermore, Mr Rothenberg has asked how I want to improve the opportunities for women to be entrepreneurs in welfare. The government is pursuing a policy for more and growing companies. Stable public finances are a prerequisite for our investments in infrastructure, research, housing and climate change, as well as for the knowledge reforms needed for a modern working life with a better functioning education system and better matching. Together with an active enterprise policy, including better financing for innovative and growing companies and increased exports, this constitutes the government's job agenda. This strengthens the conditions for companies to create, grow and export based in Sweden. A diversity of companies and entrepreneurs is important for the competitiveness, innovation and sustainability of the entire business community. I do not therefore see why women's entrepreneurship should be limited to the welfare sector. Welfare services, regardless of who carries out the activity, must be of high quality. And in order to maintain freedom of choice, the rules governing the activities must be clear. Following a series of instances of maladministration, the government has set up the investigation into the regulation of public financing of private welfare services, the purpose of which is to determine the rules applicable to companies in the welfare sector. With this, the government wants to create order in the welfare sector and make it easier for the companies operating there. A well-functioning regulatory framework with clear conditions benefits both companies and users. As early as last autumn, the government announced that the business promotion measures should be developed so that all companies and entrepreneurs, regardless of gender, ethnic background, age, industry or where in the country they operate, will have access to them on equal terms. The Government is now working on this, and the strategy for business promotion on equal terms presented by the Swedish Growth Agency this spring is an important tool in the work. The Government also decided on 10 December 2015 to step up efforts to achieve gender-equal regional growth in 2016 – 2018. This initiative is a further development of previous missions to regionally develop action plans for equal regional growth. It will lead to sustainable results by integrating gender equality into ordinary activities, for example in decision-making processes and working methods of those actors with regional development responsibilities who are working to achieve sustainable regional growth. In the context of regional growth policy, the government also decided last year on new support regulations for regional business support. One important aim was to enable support to a greater extent, among other things, to reach women, women and men with foreign background.
i-23765ce6404455b1-163	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. According to the world's largest study of entrepreneurship – called the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor and called GEM – women's entrepreneurship in Sweden has declined dramatically in just one year. That's why I wrote the interpellation. You have to react to societal changes that happen, even if they come suddenly. According to the survey, the proportion of women running early stage enterprises fell from just over 6 percentage points to just under 4 percentage points, which is a decrease of nearly 40 per cent. In addition, according to GEM's definition of entrepreneurship, the Swedish proportion of women in entrepreneurship fell from 8.2 per cent in 2013 to 6.7 in 2014. This means that Sweden is falling from 10th to 18th place among the 29 comparable countries, which are characterized as innovation driven. Investing in entrepreneurship and business start-up and development is a gender equality issue that also provides opportunities for growth through better use of the entire population. The Alliance government therefore carried out targeted actions with women's entrepreneurship programmes. They turned to women who wanted to develop their businesses and women who wanted to start businesses. The same programme also addressed stakeholders working to promote entrepreneurship, business development and regional growth, for example through advice and funding. The Alliance government had a lot of time during its eight years. Several initiatives were also initiated in the field of general economic policy, which has promoted equality between men as entrepreneurs and women as entrepreneurs. Women's participation and equal participation in growth and development work locally, regionally, nationally and internationally are important. The local and regional level plays a role where the needs and conditions can vary depending on where you are in the country. Mr President, I would like to The issues of welfare are often addressed in this context. So do I in my interpellation. It is quite natural because many women work in the public sector, not least in the welfare sector. It is therefore natural that many take their first steps into entrepreneurship with starting points in welfare business and its opportunities. It is therefore important that there are good conditions for entrepreneurship in the welfare sector. And it is especially important to look at how we will get many women and also men and people with a different background from the usual one to move forward. The reason why I am focusing on women in this debate was precisely the report by the GEM which showed that the proportion has fallen. Then you have to react. That is why I asked the Minister two questions. One was the measures that the Minister for Economic Affairs intends to take to improve the conditions for women to start and run businesses in Sweden. Here I was told quite generally that you should not make a difference between groups or set them against each other. No, we are not going to do that, but we are going to stimulate groups where there is a lower level of entrepreneurship than would otherwise be expected. I would also like to ask the Minister how he intends to improve the opportunities for women to be entrepreneurs in welfare. There we heard an evasive answer.
i-23765ce6404455b1-173	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me say that women's entrepreneurship is definitely an important issue. It is a strategic growth issue. We in Sweden have not – and in many other countries too – made full use of the potential of citizens. There are fewer women than men who are entrepreneurs and run companies. Sweden needs more and growing companies, perhaps now more than ever, so we should seize the potential of the entire population. It is also a matter of principle and equality policy. Gender should not be allowed to determine what opportunities it has to start and run a business, whether it is in working life or on the company side. I think it is important to note that this is an issue which I take very seriously and which I hope we are all involved in in this House. The Swedish Agency for Growth estimates that approximately 29 per cent of companies in Sweden are run by women. There has been an increase over time in the proportion of women running businesses, which is positive. Even more positive is that when you look at the companies run by women and compare them with companies run by men, the figures are quite positive. Companies run by women are doing just as well. This concerns size, productivity and growth rates. So there is no deterioration or difference in gender. Women are as good entrepreneurs as men. But there are too few female entrepreneurs. I am not satisfied with this picture, and I see it as not being Hans Rothenberg either. That is a good starting point for a discussion. One of the concerns we have had about why we chose to work through the regional growth processes is that we want to get this out in the regular business. It must not be a small project on the side, but all the important players must ensure that women and men are rewarded in the same way so that women are not discriminated against in the processes that exist when they are supported or helped to set up and run businesses. It's got to work all over the country. That is why we think these processes are so important that we take the Swedish Agency for Growth's investigation so seriously. They have just proposed this, and that is what we are trying to implement. If you consider what has happened in the 2014 GEM statistics, I would like to put the question back. What happened in the last year? You had made some efforts, and then this race took place at the end of your term of office. You must have made some kind of reflection on what it was because it was that way. I think it is important to see that you have your own responsibility. You cannot just come here and say that the current government is responsible for everything. If this happened during the last parliamentary term, we should also consider what mistakes were made that led to this development in the final year of the Alliance.
i-23765ce6404455b1-180	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps that was the most expected counter-question I expected to get. You need to be humble and discuss the reasons. Of course, everything in eight years could not have been perfect. I'm sorry this happened in the last year. I think we should look at what signal language means. Women, men and anyone who starts a business do it on the basis that you want a little more. You want to do a little more than you can do in a job. You do it because you know a little more. You have knowledge and experience that may make you feel limited in a job. It is therefore natural to take the step further in the area where you have worked. If you're an engineer, you can start a consulting firm. If you are a lawyer, there are many opportunities to start your own business. If you are in an activity characterised by public governance and public funding where there is no tradition of entrepreneurship and where there is also a political debate that entrepreneurship is not desirable in that area, then it is clear that it affects the possibility and interest to start new activities in that area. That is exactly what happened between 2013 and 2014. It was an election year, and much of the debate that took place during that year was about limiting opportunities in the welfare sector to create entrepreneurship. I do not want to say that they were countless, but there were a handful of examples that were repeated time and again. It was said that money was landed on some of the canal islands. Some individual abuses became examples of an entire industry. That's the signal language. The Minister says in his reply that he does not see why women's entrepreneurship should be limited to the welfare sector. But women are clearly over-represented in the welfare sector. If you want women to become more self-employed then it is quite natural that they focus on the welfare sector. There is also an undertone here that there are more restrictions than opportunities to review the investigation into the regulation of public funding of private welfare services. The investigation is based on maladministration, not on possibilities. With this, the government wants to bring order to the welfare sector. In addition to a handful of examples, what is the mess in the welfare sector? The whole undertone is based on disqualifying people working in the welfare sector to drive a successful entrepreneurship that for society, for people who use their services and for patients can mean a quality increase. Why does a feminist government not want to see these opportunities?
i-23765ce6404455b1-187	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of signal language, it is very important for us who are involved in economic policy issues not to send the signal that women are only entrepreneurs in certain sectors. We see that women are under-represented in certain industries and sectors. That's the way it is today. The very sharked industry, the digital start-up scene in Sweden, we often talk about as a huge opportunity for our country. We must be honest to say that there are too few women in the leading position in the start-up companies. It is a structural problem for the digital economy if it does not take advantage of the power and skills of women. It cannot be said that just because women have traditionally worked more in the welfare sector, there are their career opportunities and entrepreneurship, especially in that sector. It is clear that there will be female entrepreneurs in the welfare sector, there will be. In the election campaign we had some different positions. We felt that greater investment in welfare was needed. It is good for entrepreneurs in the welfare area to see that they can expand their welfare and improve its quality. There was also a discussion about the abuses that had been revealed. Because there were not sufficiently clear quality requirements for publicly funded activities, there were some scandals, which affected serious companies. Those who followed the rules and had a high quality were also cut down in a discussion about whether all private activities are bad because some do not follow what should be valid. But it is clear that when we talk about improving the quality of the welfare sector, it affects women. We have had discussions that we think it is reasonable to discuss staffing requirements in the care of the elderly. We think that the elderly should have a certain minimum level of staffing in care for the elderly in order to ensure quality. So we look to the other side – what is it that causes women to fall in working time in the Swedish labour market? 100 000 women go down in working time because elderly care and childcare are not up to the mark. It will be a gender equality question what quality requirements you set for your business. For a serious and forward-looking entrepreneur, there is no problem in having good quality standards in the public sector. That's an advantage. Then we can remove those companies that have not taken quality seriously, and the market will be better for the women and men who run companies in the welfare sector. As far as women and entrepreneurship are concerned, I believe that other issues are also important, such as the functioning of the security systems. We see how sick leave affects women to a greater extent than men. We took a first step in connection with last year's turn, when we introduced a ceiling on the costs of sick pay for companies. I think it was an important change that reduced the risk of entrepreneurship linked to both women and men. I think we need to have a continued discussion on how the social security system works for entrepreneurs, both women and men. An important issue is also security and opportunities for entrepreneurs at different stages of life. The issues are connected and bigger, but I think it is quite the way to go to ensure that all those who work with business support in different ways, also regionally out in Sweden, take the issues of gender equality and equal entrepreneurship very seriously. Together, Mr Rothenberg and I will be able to ensure that we monitor these issues so that they do not get less attention in the future.
i-23765ce6404455b1-197	Mr President, I would like to When you start a new business, you start from your skills, experience and platform. I would like to hear: what does the Minister say to all those women who are active in the public sector, who are not competitive? How can they realise their entrepreneurial dream if they are not to be able to do so in their own field of activity? Are they going to be cycle repairers or computer technicians? It requires an enormous retraining and a change of skills. I debated security systems with Mikael Damberg's colleague, the Minister for Social Security, the day before yesterday. At the 55-year limit, it says boom, and as an entrepreneur you do not have the opportunity to choose your withdrawal period. The Alliance government made two adjustments to that reform, and there is every possibility of moving forward. It also affects women who are getting older, women who need to vabba as entrepreneurs to a greater extent. Mr President, I would like to The government limits RUT services and entrepreneurship in areas where many women are active. The government has also withdrawn the support that has gone to the entrepreneurial support organisation Winnet. There's been a scream. Why does one direct one's sting toward such an organization? Where women have the most difficult to run their own business, the government does at least to facilitate and at most to make things more difficult. If you call yourself a feminist government, it takes more than words. Action is needed here. I look forward to there being action during the time that Mikael Damberg has left as Minister.
i-23765ce6404455b1-201	Mr President, I would like to The broad perspective is important as a prerequisite. I believe that the decision taken by Parliament on a third father month or mother month – a month of weight – means a great deal to deal with, for example, the skewed distribution of vab time that Mr Rothenberg mentioned. Today, women take out a very large part of the vabband, thereby reducing their labour market and working life conditions. By breaking through this dike and gaining a more equal parental responsibility, gender equality in the labour market and in working life will also be affected in a good way. When it comes to specific business activities, we are investing heavily not least in welfare, with investments in elderly care leading to higher quality but also opportunities for private actors to offer good public sector activities. There will be a study on clearer quality requirements in the public sector. I think it is good for the whole sector that it will come, because then we can avoid this debate on whether or not taxpayers' money is being skimmed on even though it is not of sufficient quality. Serious women and men who are entrepreneurs in the public sector are only winners and not losers in such a reform. I am absolutely convinced of that. Then I think it is a matter of looking at what is currently restricting people and preventing them from taking the step and becoming entrepreneurs. Knowledge of the industry is a very important part, but it is also a question of financing. We have taken huge steps to try to reform the state funding system in order to help people who, for example, have innovative ideas and want to make them a reality. We will have to work in many different areas, but it is important that the regular regional structures also take gender equality seriously, and this is what the Swedish Agency for Growth's proposal was about. We must ensure that these resources are now taken out where the work is done, not least regionally around Sweden.
i-23765ce6404455b1-204	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked the Minister for Infrastructure how she works to promote Swedish innovation for aviation. The work in the government is so organised that it is I as Minister of Enterprise and Innovation who will answer the question. Sweden has a long history of aircraft development and a world-unique competence in engine and aircraft systems. Swedish companies are subcontractors to most of the new civil aircraft that are currently being put into operation in the world, and Sweden is one of five countries in the world that today can build and construct fighter aircraft systems. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The Government believes that the environmental impact of the transport sector and its greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced. This means, among other things, that technological developments in aviation must lead to improved energy efficiency and reduced environmental impact. I believe that there are good conditions for Swedish innovations to be able to contribute to such a development in the future. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish aviation industry, Vinnova operates a strategic innovation programme for aviation, and this allows Swedish companies to participate in research programmes also at European level. Among other things, they are involved in the development of the next generation of fuel-efficient aircraft engines. The government is now reforming the state's financing efforts and has recently presented an export strategy and a knowledge boost with, among other things, new places at the University of Applied Sciences. These are some of the government's measures for more and growing companies that also strengthen the competitive environment for the Swedish aviation industry. Together with the Swedish aviation industry, authorities and other relevant actors, the government is also developing a flight strategy for a more sustainable and competitive Swedish flight. This work includes both innovation issues and environmental issues.
i-23765ce6404455b1-209	Mr President, I would like to I put my interpellation to the Minister for Infrastructure, because I specifically wanted to know how she works to promote Swedish innovation for aviation. I am aware that the ministers have different functions in the government. It's not unfamiliar to me. But I would have liked to have discussed these very issues with the Minister for Infrastructure. However, I must thank the Minister for Enterprise for the answers he has given in his area of competence. Mr President, I would like to If the Minister for Infrastructure had been here, I would have asked her, for example, how she thinks the introduction of an air tax would affect aviation in Sweden and our opportunities. Sweden is well ahead today, for example, in terms of green fuels for aviation. One could say that Sweden is a world leader in this area, and that is gratifying in many ways, partly because we need a green transition and increased responsibility in aviation, partly because it will be able to create many jobs in our country. These developments are threatened by a possible flight tax. The industry has warned about what happens if you introduce a flight tax. The development of green fuels, which are more expensive than traditional fuels, is something that the industry itself is driving. If increased taxation is applied to such an industry, the margins will be reduced and, according to the industry, the green conversion of aviation will no longer be possible. I mean that would be very unfortunate. I agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs that Swedish innovations will hopefully be part of the global effort to reduce the negative environmental impact of aviation. But that requires Sweden to do the right things, so that Swedish industry is given good opportunities to compete globally. A flight tax is a bad policy, because it makes the introduction of green fuels more difficult, where Sweden, as I said, could lead the way. It is a bad thing to raise taxes on those who, for example, train as engineers. Half of those working in the aerospace industry today are engineers. It is a bad policy to raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by 30 billion and then bring back small sums of money to the industry, because Swedish top companies compete in a global market. It is a bad policy to have a foreign minister who is constantly making enemies of other countries. We will then have fewer opportunities to sell our flights and flight components. Not least in the case of military aircraft, on which the Minister himself is concerned, it is not a good policy to disagree with other countries. I also find it difficult to see how 6 000 new places at the university of applied sciences will have a significant impact on the competitiveness of the aviation industry. As I said, it is largely about engineers and people with higher education in those places. The Minister for Industry is happy to develop how he believes that the government's new export strategy will be able to contribute positively to the Swedish aviation industry.
i-23765ce6404455b1-217	Mr President, I would like to First of all, Sweden is an elongated country located in northern Europe. This means that air transport will be important within the country's borders as an important part of the transport system. This applies not least to the conditions for operating companies throughout the country. But they are also important for us to reach and have access to the large emerging markets globally. In particular, our larger companies that work a lot with exports are completely dependent on good transports to and from Sweden. In the export strategy, the government therefore highlights the need for, for example, more direct links to the world's emerging markets. We work very hard on this together with Connect Sweden, for example, which is a collaboration between Swedavia, regional actors but also private actors to bring about more routes to and from Sweden. Fortunately, we can say that Arlanda has strengthened its position in the last couple of years rather heavily relative to other airports in its immediate vicinity. Where Arlanda lost access for a very long time, we are now increasing in direct connections with quite a few large emerging markets, and that is a positive development. One of the first initiatives we took in the government, and I was pushing, was to start negotiations on pre-clearance to the United States. We have started those negotiations with the United States, and the United States chose us as one of the countries that they would like to have pre-clearance with. It would open up great opportunities for flights to have more direct connections to the North American market directly into the US, but also indirectly because more airlines would be interested in flying via Sweden into the US in order to avoid the complicated handling at the borders with the US and instead manage it on Swedish soil. These are just a few parts. Add to this the work that Anna Johansson is now doing with the aviation strategy. It shows something that we take the issues very seriously. We can come back to the issues of airline tax. There was a question about innovation. It is important to see that we are making important innovation efforts that are of great importance. If Vinnova had not had the programmes, we would not have been able to participate in the European structures in the way we have been. Innoware has a team at Saab in Linköping that is now developing a new way to design and manufacture aircraft wings in carbon fibre reinforced composites to reduce air resistance and fuel consumption. It is a hugely important issue for the global development of aviation in the future. We also participate in Clean Sky, Europe's largest commercial aviation research programme. There we know that GKN – former Volvo Aero, for those who haven't been involved – is one of the leading European aeronautics companies to develop the next generation of efficient and fuel-efficient aircraft engines. I am proud that Swedish engineering know-how is so strong in this area. That is something we are really going to develop. It is about investment in higher education and universities. I don't know why I didn't mention it in the interpellation response. I also noticed it when I read it out. We are expanding the university system with more places in the coming years with higher quality. The second thing we do is about university of applied sciences. Why is that important? Because some of these companies also work with production. Advanced production will need people with post-secondary education. If you do not have time to wait for a university education that may take five years, YH courses that are specialised with training elements in place in companies are a way to cope with the matching problems that we may be affected by in the coming years. I think that YH, properly designed, can be a support and help for some of the technology and engineering-heavy companies that still have quite a large production in Sweden and for the development of our country. It could be a solution to some of the matching problems.
i-23765ce6404455b1-226	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs that Sweden is on the edge of Europe and that it is an elongated sparsely populated country. Thus, air connections are extremely important to us in the national perspective but also in the international sense as a strong export nation. In this it is a good thing that the majority of Parliament rejected the government's attempt to close one of the two airports we have in the Helsinki region, that is, Bromma airport. It is still there, not thanks to the Social Democrats, but thanks to the alliance parties. That's good. I also think we fully agree on that. It may not be that the Alliance is good in all parts, but at least the airport is still there, I think the Minister also thinks it is good. Nor do I doubt the Minister for Economic Affairs' commitment to aviation issues. The problem for the Minister for Economic Affairs is that he is in a government with the Green Party, which thinks that aviation is an old-fashioned technology that in practice wants to be abolished for larger parts of Sweden. That's a problem. I would also like to highlight what the Minister himself spoke about, that is to say, pre-clearance. It's important. It has much more symbolic value than it has practical significance if you get through that kind of thing. If we talk about the US aviation industry and the aviation market, even before the 2014 elections, American airlines in letters to Sweden warned of what would happen if a flight tax were introduced. Already at the stage that there was a discussion of a flight tax in Sweden, one was worried about how to locate routes and so on. Aviation tax is a concern in this. The Minister for Industry mentions the aviation strategy as part of the work to promote the Swedish aviation industry at the outset and also in his second speech. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether you will heed the aviation industry's greatest wish in terms of this strategy. It is simply a matter of avoiding a flight tax. What the aviation industry most calls for is not to introduce a flight tax in Sweden. If you are serious about a flight strategy, perhaps you should listen to this request. I have been trying to find out from the Minister for Infrastructure for almost a year about the aviation strategy and, above all, what it might contain. Perhaps the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is addressing precisely the aviation strategy, can mention something about what the government will come up with in the aviation strategy. What positive is there for the aviation industry to wait in the aviation strategy?
i-23765ce6404455b1-232	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by saying that although Sweden is located in northern Europe, there are enormous conditions and opportunities for being in northern Europe when it comes to how to fly the planet fastest, best and shortest. If you're going to get from large parts of India and China to the United States, the closest route is to fly across our part of the planet. It's faster than many other ways to fly. There are opportunities when we talk about global hotlines to take advantage of our position. There the question of pre-clearance is anything but a symbolic question. This is a very practical issue, not least for those business travellers who, instead of having to risk being put in a three-hour queue in the United States when they land as domestic traffic. It will affect not only travellers, visitors and tourists, but also airlines when choosing which airports they want direct flights to. It is a hugely important thing that we are now helping to strengthen our global position and accessibility in Sweden. Direct lines are also a way to reduce climate impact. On average, a direct line is almost 25% better from a climate point of view than the stops we are otherwise forced to make if we are to have global flights. This is a smart way for Sweden to work. It is not surprising that the Moderates find it so difficult to think about: How do we meet the global climate challenge? The parties have been in the Environment Committee and previously agreed. In 2009, for example, I think all parties agreed that the dirty person should pay. This should be a principle on which we are fairly agreed in Sweden. It should then be possible to examine the issue of air taxation when other countries, Germany, France, Austria and the United Kingdom, have actually introduced air tax. Other countries have introduced it and then removed it. It is also a reason why the investigation must look at how other countries have done and what the experience is. The socio-economic consequences must also be looked at. When we normally say that our economic instruments have produced results and that this is one of the reasons why Sweden has managed to drive the climate transition, one must at least be able to investigate and discuss the issue of the climate impact of aviation in the long term. In any case, it feels intellectually like an exercise that even the Moderates would be able to do in a situation when we come from Paris and say that we have a global development where aviation will increase a lot in volume. We know then that emissions will risk increasing at the same rate if we do nothing. Sweden has technology and fuels. But we also need to look at what other methods we have to combine our high ambitions in the field of transport policy for transport within Sweden and abroad with high climate ambitions. That's why we've set up an investigation.
i-23765ce6404455b1-239	Mr President, I would like to I just want to make it clear that there was someone who misunderstood what I meant by pre-clearance. I said that I believe the symbolic value is greater than the practical value. It was not about reducing the practicality of the matter, but I think it has a different meaning. The minister himself was into it in the end. So it will mean that many airlines will be laying direct lines from here, and it is basically good if we can become a more collecting hub in northern Europe than we have traditionally been. We have strengthened our position. That is good, and we shall continue to do so. I think you have to find broad agreements over a long time if you are to attract long direct lines just to Arlanda. When it comes to the second part – if Moderates have problems with the climate challenge – it is not at all so. Most of what the Minister himself brings up here are things that the Alliance Government has launched and launched and which are now managed by the current government. That's often the case. The Vinnova work that the Minister highlights, and much more, is precisely what the previous government has already started. Together with the Green Party, we now run the risk of shooting some of the good things for the environment with a flight tax. A flight tax is likely to make it impossible to afford the initiative that the aviation industry itself has taken with green fuels, which is a bit more expensive, if a tax is imposed on the industry. Unfortunately, in its eagerness to pursue environmental policy with the tax weapon, the Red-Green Government is in danger of harming the environment and the green transition, and I think that would be a pity. I would have liked to have discussed with the Minister for Infrastructure what she thinks she could have done on the issues. But I think we have had a good discussion, and I thank the Minister for Industry for the debate we have had. We'll have reason to come back.
i-23765ce6404455b1-243	Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that Sweden has the opportunity to contribute to the global challenge of meeting increasing transport needs globally with increased aviation and doing so with smarter fuel for aviation. There we have a lot to contribute with our engineering expertise on both engines and the construction of aircraft bodies that can reduce fuel consumption. I think that Sweden has a lot to contribute on the engineering side as well as on the company side and the innovation side. I am also proud that Swedavia has carried out such long-term environmental work where, for example, they have looked at all the land transport at their airports to switch to biofuels. It is unique in the world, and leading. I am pleased that the state-owned Swedavia has also expressed a vision of a fossil-free international flight and tried to bring the parties together for a discussion. It is not only about how to produce biofuels for aviation, but also about how to make them actually used in air traffic. That is the big challenge, which I hope more parties will get involved in. Then the innovation efforts we make in Sweden will be important to maintain the position we have as an engineering country that is really strong on the airside and that will continue to be so in the future. Thank you for the debate.
i-GGMpHTw2HegPE6Ne4HpMQW	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-23765ce6404455b1-249	Mr President, I would like to In the last week, it has been announced that virtually all Swedish nuclear power may be shut down within a few years. The latest news came in today's industry today. Such decommissioning should not be in anyone's interest with the negative effects it would have on the Swedish electricity system and ultimately for jobs and entrepreneurship. We see a cold day like this how important nuclear power is. This weekend it will be 10 degrees below zero at home in Gothenburg and 20 minus in other parts of the country. The level of electricity prices can neither me nor the government influence. On the other hand, the government can make a sharp proposal to reduce or remove the nuclear tax in the same way that it was significantly increased in the previous year, which could provide breathing space and help to secure the supply of electricity in the future in Sweden. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Energy: what is the opinion of the Social Democrats and the Green Party? What does the government want? Do you want to maintain, reduce or remove the nuclear tax?
i-23765ce6404455b1-253	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered, for an important question! I think we all agree on the importance of having a stable energy and electricity supply at competitive prices. Today we have a system that works very well in many ways. However, we have seen for a number of years that this may change and that quite quickly. It was against this background that the government appointed an Energy Commission last year, where all eight parliamentary parties sit, so that we can develop long-term prospects for the energy sector. In the work of the Energy Commission, this information has already emerged in the past. Vattenfall presented this at a seminar organised by the Energy Commission. Therefore, when we presented a work plan that we adopted jointly throughout the Energy Commission in December, it was of course taken into account that during the spring we can discuss and find solutions together so that we can always secure electricity at competitive prices to Swedish industry and Swedish households.
i-23765ce6404455b1-256	Mr President, I would like to I note that there was no answer to the question I asked. It is cold days that nuclear power is important. I note that my own party has made concrete proposals regarding the nuclear tax as well as other energy policy issues. Although we have a Commission – and it is important – one problem for Ibrahim Baylan is that he and the government have not presented a single concrete solution to energy policy within the framework of the Commission. I therefore come back to my question: what is the government's view? Should the nuclear tax be maintained, reduced or phased out?
i-23765ce6404455b1-259	Mr President, I would like to After all, we are at the very beginning of the negotiations that we have been preparing for throughout the previous year. It's a rather complicated situation, but I think that the tax on impact that we are now talking about – which both the moderate-led government and the current government have raised – is of the kind that it must of course be included in the discussions. However, this is not the only challenge that exists in the energy sector, and I look forward to discussing both the impact tax and jointly finding solutions that suit the energy sector but also the other elements so that we can create long-term conditions for the energy sector and industry.
i-23765ce6404455b1-262	Mr President, I would like to In questions like this, there may be some cake on cake. I would also like to ask questions about the impact tax on nuclear power. I would like to begin by saying that for decades we have actually reaped the benefits of the very sensible investments of previous generations in both hydropower and nuclear power. This has made Sweden a strong industrial nation, as we have been able to have internationally very competitive prices and secure electrical power. Unfortunately, this wise policy has recently been replaced by what I think is an ideological playhouse, where politics is handed over to political activists rather than to technically competent staff. My question is exactly the same as that which was not answered in the previous question: what does the government intend to do with the impact tax, because we are approaching a position where it is becoming really urgent?
i-23765ce6404455b1-266	Mr President, I would like to As I said, this is an important issue, and my entry into the talks that we are about to start at the Energy Commission is that we should always secure electricity at competitive prices for both households and industry. With regard to the energy system that we have today, where hydroelectric power and nuclear power account for the lion's share of electricity use but where wind power is growing quite sharply, it is simply to be noted that we have already been told about the closure of four reactors. The remaining six reactors are important in the system, and I see them as a bridge into a renewable system in the long term. As we enter into the discussions, it is very important for me that we can reach agreement across the block line, because I think that long-term conditions are very important. Then, of course, there will also be discussions on taxes and instruments. It would be strange otherwise, because they are an important part of the energy sector.
i-23765ce6404455b1-269	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Energy. In fact, I was a little pleasantly surprised when I read the news today. In my opinion, it seemed that the government was changing its feet to a more realistic approach to these issues. But now the answer was very fuzzy. Now, instead of providing any concrete information on how to imagine the future, we should continue to discuss it. I am deeply concerned about the energy situation in the future if one cannot even give such a simple answer.
i-23765ce6404455b1-271	Mr President, I would like to Now opposition parties are trying to score cheap points, but the fact is that the situation in the energy sector is very complicated. It is complicated by the fact that we have a sharp fall in energy prices all over the world, not just in Sweden. It is clear that it is pressing the energy sector; we must take this into account. That is why it is very good that we have an Energy Commission in place and that we can agree across the block line and provide the energy sector with long-term prospects. Taxes will be included, but this is not the only issue that needs to be resolved in order for us to be able to secure electricity for our homes and industries.
i-23765ce6404455b1-273	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. In recent days a lot of unpleasant testimony has been reported from different parts of Sweden and the rest of the world. Cologne, Kalmar and Kungsträdgården have been at the centre of the discussion about sexual harassment and abuse that has taken place. I think we can all agree in this Chamber that physical integrity is inviolable and that we should all fight to preserve it. It is also clear, and I believe that most of us can agree, that this is also sometimes used to spread a xenophobic agenda. It has been reported that the police failed to communicate and perhaps even intervene on the basis of political considerations. Then I want to know how the government intends to ensure that the police do their job in a consistent and professional manner and leave the political discussions to us.
i-23765ce6404455b1-277	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to agree with everything Johan Hedin says about the importance of physical integrity, that perpetrators end up behind bars and to expose such events. The police should not, of course, take into account any party or political task in their dissemination of information. It is a cornerstone of public administration. Now the chief of police has arranged for him to conduct a thorough investigation of what has happened. It is important to get to the bottom of these issues and see if any errors have actually been made. I welcome the investigation, and when it is presented, we will see what conclusions we can draw from it.
i-23765ce6404455b1-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of the Interior. This is not the only disturbing signal we get from the police organization. We have heard that crimes are not investigated even though there seems to be sufficient evidence. We've heard about rum and women's records. We have heard that the conditions are very strained for the policemen and women who work in the organization. Is there a structural problem that needs to be addressed?
i-23765ce6404455b1-282	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, the answer to that question must be no. There has never been more financial resources spent on the police than now. There's never been more police employees than now. There haven't been more cops in the last 30 years than there are now. On the other hand, it is true that the police are carrying out a major reform, a major change, on which all parties in the Riksdag have agreed. It is important that the reform brings more police officers closer to the citizens and that it goes along with the order of the police in Sweden.
i-23765ce6404455b1-285	Mr President, I would like to One of the Government's ambitions is for Sweden to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. To achieve this, all actors in society need to work actively to reduce emissions. An important step to achieve this is the new climate agreement agreed by the countries of the world. The decision came after difficult final negotiations at the climate conference COP 21 in Paris this autumn. This means that the countries of the world have a common plan to reduce climate emissions.
i-23765ce6404455b1-287	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jennie Nilsson, for a very good question. This is the historic first global agreement in the field of climate change. This is necessary and will, of course, affect the energy sector a great deal throughout the world. Two thirds of the climate gases come from direct and indirect energy use. Sweden has been a pioneer country. Sweden is one of the countries in the world with the lowest carbon intensity in energy production. This is due to the development work that has been going on since the mid-70s to free us from coal, oil and gas. This means that many of the experiences, products and services that have developed in Sweden in the Swedish energy sector can be a strong advantage for us not least when it comes to export income and new jobs in a green sector. I look forward with excitement to working together with the Swedish energy sector on this.
i-23765ce6404455b1-291	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. To achieve reduced climate emissions it is likely that we in Sweden will be good at energy efficiency. It is an issue that has been high on the political agenda for a long time, not least on the Government agenda. In which sectors does the Government consider that policy can do more in terms of energy efficiency, for example?
i-23765ce6404455b1-294	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has had an ongoing work on energy efficiency that has borne fruit on the local, regional and national level. We use today in Sweden, compared to ten years ago, despite almost 4 percent growth last year, about 10 terawatt hours less electricity although we produce 20 terawatt hours more. More can be done in all sectors. The government has just taken the initiative to set up a Smart Grids Forum. It can be an important tool in both industry and the household sector.
i-23765ce6404455b1-297	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. The police have been discussed in the last few days. A question has already been asked today. There have been questions about possible systemic errors, misinformation and evasive information. Before the police reform took place, there was supervision by the various police authorities in the country. It was the National Police Board, which itself was not operational, that was responsible for that supervision. Today there is no supervision. We have adopted the reform in broad agreement. In the same agreement, the Riksdag decided that there should be an independent supervisory authority. The investigation is complete and is complete. It's a matter for the department to develop a bill. I thought after these events that the government would give priority to the issue and think it is important. However, when the bill list comes to us today, we can see that the government does not actually have that issue in mind. Why does the government not give priority to the issue? If the minister answers that the government does, how?
i-23765ce6404455b1-303	Mr President, I would like to My humility forbids me to go through times from the time that investigations have taken place to the fact that proposals have been tabled under previous governments. There is considerable material to discuss. I share Krister Hammarbergh's view that there should be an independent and independent supervisory authority for the police. As Krister Hammarbergh showed, there is extensive material and input from various consultation bodies. When the matter is settled at the Government Office, it will, I guess, lead to a bill at the beginning of next year.
i-23765ce6404455b1-305	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I have to say that the Government prioritises a bill on the electronic proclamation of the Swedish Constitutional Assembly before the supervision of the police. There is supervision of school activities but not of those who have the ultimate monopoly of violence in Sweden. I regret this, and I think that the work could go faster. I am aware that there are a lot of views from different authorities – that's not unusual – but this is where politics should make a difference.
i-23765ce6404455b1-307	Mr President, I would like to No, Krister Hammarbergh, the priority is to criminalise terrorist war trips, which were not made during the bourgeois period, to stop the misuse of Swedish passports, which were not done during the bourgeois period, despite the fact that there were proposals and despite the need. We will also see to it that we have an independent supervisory authority for the police.
i-23765ce6404455b1-309	Mr President, I would like to There is a sale of an enrichment plant in the bankrupt mine in Kaunisvaara. If the work is sold for disposal, this means that huge investments have been made in an open-air mine with all possible side effects but that the environment and the local community around it and the Sami village concerned have paid a high price for a fiasco. At the same time, it may be suspected that new applications will be submitted for new mining projects where the environment, local communities and other affected industries always pay a high price. Are there long-term plans in the form of, for example, a mineral strategy so that failed mining projects do not become everyday news? My question is of a general political nature and is addressed to Gustav Fridolin : Does the government see a future in the Swedish mining industry?
i-23765ce6404455b1-312	Mr President, I would like to The government sees an important future for the Swedish mining industry. If we are to expand and rebuild our society in the way needed, minerals are needed. It requires minerals to be picked up from the soil in a sustainable way. In order for it to be sustainable, a regulatory framework and system is required that does not repeat the type of events that Birger Lahti reports. There is definitely a lesson to be learned from the mistakes that have been made in the past. This review of the regulatory framework is contained in the party agreement that forms the basis of the government's work and will be carried out during the term of office.
i-23765ce6404455b1-313	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That's a good answer. There will, of course, be a supplementary question. Why is it okay on the part of the government to subsidise cleaning aid to wealthy Swedish homes for billions but not okay to for a spit styve secure natural resources for billions and hundreds of jobs in a very hard hit region?
i-23765ce6404455b1-315	Mr President, I would like to For those who look at the economic policy pursued by the government, it is quite clear that the large investments we make in the environmental field for sustainable environmental policy and biodiversity as well as in the labour market are many times greater than the costs of the RUT deduction. The deduction we have in the RUT area is there for us to have a good prerequisite for new jobs to be created and for black jobs to become white.
i-23765ce6404455b1-317	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman and is about the reporting of recent days on harassment at the Youth Festival in Stockholm in 2014 and 2015. Surely no politician or party representative has been left untouched by the tasks that have been created. The police also reported last year, Mr President, that 200 young people – young guys – were taken away from the festival area because they had touched or otherwise molested young girls. On Monday, the government and the Home Secretary went out and said: "We're going to get to the bottom of this. Yesterday, the Special Prosecutor's Office announced that the pre-trial investigation against the Police Authority was closed, and the police have initiated an internal investigation.
i-23765ce6404455b1-322	Mr President, I would like to As can be seen from the article from which Roger Haddad quotes, I welcome the fact that the chief of police has arranged for him to get to the bottom of this matter. He's going to turn the matter over to Internal Affairs to see if any crime has been committed. It is now clear that this is not the case. Then he'll investigate what's actually happened. There is a great deal of information in the media, and far from everything that has been said in the media has been true. That's why I've welcomed the chief of police to do this investigation. When the result comes, we in the various political parties will have to take a position on what measures it is reasonable to take.
i-GxXwpDYMFQQ3YBUkR85yRD	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman! When the Minister of the Interior presented the new head of the National Police just over a year ago, Dan Eliasson said that he would see to it that the Police Authority gets rid of its "organized fetters" already on 1 January. I suspect that there are both organisational and cultural shackles that the police have to deal with. However, given the problem of self-examination, I would like to hear whether the government will set up an external investigation in the near future.
i-23765ce6404455b1-327	Mr President, I would like to The government will not set up an investigation in the near future, but I have welcomed the investigative work that the chief of police in the media has said will come about. I think it is reasonable that the police should, for the very reasons that Roger Haddad mentions – organisational culture and such things – make a thorough analysis of what has happened, and whether something has gone wrong and what it is, and ensure that it is resolved. There is probably every reason to have a broad discussion about police culture and transparency in the police.
i-23765ce6404455b1-330	Mr President, I would like to During the party leader debate yesterday, we heard the Prime Minister's introduction: Every girl's body, every woman's body, is her own – without fear of being abused. He also said that the guilty should be punished. For this to happen, you must also feel secure when reporting, and the notifier must be taken seriously. This is not always happening. We women know that. Many of us have been subjected to this type of abuse, ranging from sexual harassment to worse abuse. I have also been working on this issue for a long time. Now I ask the Minister of the Interior: how are you going to work to take steps to make you feel safe with the whole chain of justice? The police are the first step.
i-D5T6rT2Po2agHVotHcGyM4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that question, Carina Ohlsson! I think we need to have a broad discussion, because, unfortunately, sexual harassment is not a new phenomenon. We need to have a broad democratic discussion in which we make it much clearer that this is unacceptable and then make the right efforts. The police have too low clearance rates of sexual violence and rape. The police must be much better at working there. Extensive work has been started within the police to increase the clearance rate of those crimes. It also allows more people to report rapes. We have seen a decrease in the number of nightly rape reports, but there is still a significant potential for improvement. I think we also need to look at how the trials work. Today we have a situation where the victims, the victims, too many times have to repeat their story and where what is supposed to be a restoration for the victim instead becomes a trial. There are also some things to do there. The government has also increased funding for women's shelters, which I think is welcome.
i-23765ce6404455b1-338	Mr President, I would like to The aim of legislation and its enforcement is to change attitudes. Much of the violence, to generalize, is men's violence against women. How can society as a whole be more involved in prevention to prevent this from happening, and how can expectations of men be changed? This is something that Anders Ygeman can answer better than I do because he is a man and has a responsibility for these questions.
i-23765ce6404455b1-340	Mr President, I would like to I think we have spent far too little time discussing the role of men. It's easy to concentrate on the victims. There's a lot to do. Let me take one example: online hatred. Women on the Internet are exposed to serious complaints time and time again, too few things are reported to the police and the police have done far too little. But even the companies providing the online platforms have done far too little. We must do more to stand up for women's rights and ensure that those men who persecute and hate women online are put behind bars.
i-23765ce6404455b1-343	Mr President, I would like to I too would like to address my question to Anders Ygeman. Elevated terrorist threats, refugee crises and additional border controls are something that puts particular pressure on the police. Now more and more voices are being raised in order to activate the decommissioned police reserve. It was in Sweden from 1998 and was closed in 2012. For example, it was used in the storm Gudrun. Now we have a situation that is special. Several municipalities, including Märsta Municipality, have written a letter to the Minister for the Interior saying: We are not in a position, for example, to monitor our refugee homes. We need the emergency police. Voices are raised because we need a thousand new police officers. But the thousand police officers will take four years to educate. It has come to light that we could get a thousand rescue officers in one and a half years – even faster if we use the m available, as existed before.
i-23765ce6404455b1-348	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of order, I would like to say that it was the Municipality of Sigtuna who wrote a letter. Märsta Municipality is, to my knowledge, not existing. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I would like to welcome KD's new circular thinking. Eight years in a majority – closing authorities. Has started eight years in opposition – wants to start the same authorities. Eight years in the majority, closing down the emergency services. Eight years in opposition – wants to start it again. This allows you to have some kind of eternal cycle of opposition and majority with the same party. I think you have to think newer than that. There was a reason why the bourgeois government and the Christian Democrats shut down the emergency police. The main reason was that it was not used. If we are to create a new intermediate form, it must be based on the needs of the police and be able to be used based on the police's priorities. I am open to a discussion about what it could look like, what forms it should take and what countries to look at – for example, the voluntary activities you have in Holland.
i-23765ce6404455b1-352	Mr President, I would like to Anders Ygeman can still stand. That's right – it's called Sigtuna. But it is also said, I think, that one must be able to reconsider and see that we live in a different time than it was in 2012. When you see a need, you as a responsible politician should take on board the experience that exists. When we see that it takes up to four years to train 1 000 police officers, why not look at the reserve that can be used? It is important for the future to pool the resources available. So look again at this, Minister of the Interior!
i-23765ce6404455b1-355	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the re-think of the Christian Democrats. I could possibly come up with some little tips on other things where it could be reconsidered. There may be a need for an intermediate form. I would be happy to initiate a discussion with Mikael Oscarsson and the Christian Democrats about what needs the police authorities think need to be filled in order to meet that challenge. I believe that we should not rely solely on resources, but also, in fact, on needs.
i-23765ce6404455b1-358	Mr President, I would like to As recently as last week, the Green Party's energy policy spokesperson Lise Nordin pointed out that the Green Party's demand is for the nuclear industry to pay more of what the Green Party believes is the cost of nuclear power. At the same time, Lise Nordin points out that this is laid down in the Government Agreement. In recent days, on the other hand, both Minister Baylan and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven have opened up to reduce the tax on nuclear energy, the so-called power tax, to save the remaining reactors. A question immediately arises, namely whether that proposal is anchored in the partner of the Co-operation Government, the Green Party. If so, how credible is the government agreement?
i-23765ce6404455b1-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby! We have no other principle than that of the previous government, that nuclear power should pay for what it causes in the form of waste and – Gud forbid – any breakdowns. For a long time, even under the bourgeois government, there has been work on insurance premiums. It is being ratified in Europe, and we have, of course, discussed it in the government. Once the ratification is complete, we will have to take a position on this. I assume that this is done according to exactly the same principle as the bourgeois government had when it ruled.
i-23765ce6404455b1-363	Mr President, I would like to The question to Minister Baylan was about the reduction of the impact tax on nuclear power and the proposal made by both Baylan and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven as recently as today in Dagens i ndustri, where they say that they can consider reducing the impact tax. Is this proposal rooted in the other government party, the Green Party? Baylan has previously said that the impact tax does not affect future nuclear power production. Isn't that right anymore?
i-23765ce6404455b1-365	Mr President, I would like to That's two questions to answer in 30 seconds. It is clear that when the government enters into negotiations, which I hope we can do in the spring on these kinds of issues, we do so as a government. It's a shared responsibility. Our common entry point is to aim for a system that will eventually be 100% renewable, but also that the nuclear power produced by the six remaining reactors will be needed as a bridge. Together with the opposition, we will do our utmost to ensure a smooth transition that is cost-effective.
i-23765ce6404455b1-369	Mr President, I would like to My question is not about what different sexual harassment is due to, whether it is only structural problems between men and women or whether it sometimes has its background in cultures, or whether the analysis should stop at harassment being carried out by organisms with a pulse. However, my question relates to the fact that the police have chosen to silence what is perceived by others as new phenomena in sexual harassment, where a common denominator has been the origin of the perpetrators. More specifically, it has also emerged that the police silence crimes that they experience can benefit the Swedish Democrats. Immigration policy is still a polarised and sensitive subject, but I find it hard to believe that an authority can be influenced by a general climate of debate. I believe that a strong contributory factor to the situation that has arisen is more concrete. It's about leadership. Therefore, I would like to ask Anders Ygeman : Did the government consider Dan Eliasson's statement that he vomits when he sees Jimmie Åkesson on TV as a cargo or a merit when he was appointed as head of the Police Authority?
i-23765ce6404455b1-373	Mr President, I would like to As neither is the answer, because according to the Constitution, every citizen of Sweden has freedom of opinion and also freedom to express their views in social media. The Swedish democrats claim to defend this view and do not want to gag or other restrictions on authorities or government officials. I assume, therefore, that also applies to the chief of police.
i-23765ce6404455b1-374	Mr President, I would like to If you do not want to see the link between the leadership that has made clear political marks to a particular party and that the subordinate organization then filters its information, using the same party as the yardstick, then you do not want to see a change or you cannot bring about a change. I think that the Minister for the Interior should try to convince us in his second speech that confidence in the neutrality of the Political Authority can be saved without seriously questioning its leadership. For that, the Minister of the Interior may need a good luck.
i-23765ce6404455b1-376	Mr President, I would like to Adam Marttinen may well until the next time we discuss think about the time machine he uses in his posts. The current chief of police was not the chief of police in 2014, and the current Minister of Interior was not responsible for the police in 2014. I see it as highly unlikely that the police would have been affected retroactively by the one who would become the chief of police in terms of that culture.
i-23765ce6404455b1-378	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. It concerns one of our neighbours, Poland. It is with growing concern that I have followed the reporting on developments in Poland. The new Polish government introduces laws that give the government control over public service media in order to make the audience more patriotic. The Constitutional Court's ability to intervene is also being curtailed if the Government's proposal does not comply with the Constitution. According to media reporting, the Polish government plans to take further steps to gain stronger control of public service media. I feel that this kind of restriction on the independence of both the media and the judiciary is a very serious threat to democracy. Representatives of the Polish Government are turning away in more or less bulky ways. This criticism is both domestic and international. How does the Minister for Culture and Democracy view political developments in Poland?
i-23765ce6404455b1-382	Mr President, I would like to Developments in Poland are very worrying. The government welcomes the steps taken by the Commission yesterday following the discussions it had, to enter into a constructive dialogue with Poland. The speed at which the change has taken place is also worrying. Let us remind ourselves that Law and justice won a democratic election. Since then, developments have moved in the direction in which it could be understood at an early stage that they wanted to take the country in. The EU is not valiant that it is shaken in its foundations, and that is what is happening right now. It is therefore extremely important that we all other Member States have constructive dialogues with Poland. I have taken an initiative of my own which I can tell you about in the next speech.
i-23765ce6404455b1-384	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Culture and Democracy. My supplementary question concerns how the Minister for Culture and Democracy views cooperation with Poland now and in the future. We have extensive cooperation with Poland in several areas of democracy and also in the field of culture. How does the Minister for Culture and Democracy view future cooperation with Poland?
i-23765ce6404455b1-386	Mr President, I would like to I think it is of the utmost importance that we all cooperate with Poland, all democratic parties in the Swedish Parliament. It is also important that the government continues to cooperate. We have been working intensively with Poland and with all the other countries in the Baltic Sea region for a long time. I have invited the Culture Ministers of Germany, Austria and France to talk about common strategies for how we court Poland in the future.
i-23765ce6404455b1-389	Mr President, I would like to I have a related question for Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. Following the recent elections in Poland, the conditions for public service media have changed. According to a new media law, the leaders of these media should be appointed by the government and be directly subject to a government council. Here in Sweden, Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke has appointed a media inquiry. According to the interim report, new pre-financing needs to be allocated on the basis of qualitative content. It shall be examined by a Board composed of industry representatives and representatives of the public. This gives associations to the state governance of the media that is suddenly taking place in our neighbouring country Poland. Would the Government feel comfortable with such a quality criterion?
i-23765ce6404455b1-392	Mr President, I would like to I can assure the questioner and everyone in this House that I and the government will do everything to ensure that the state is kept very far from public service and from the content of all the media. The analysis provided by the media inquiry in its interim report is precisely an analysis. The proposals come during the year, after which they will be referred and then we will put forward a policy. However, I welcome the commitment that we continue to defend the independence of the media and also create good conditions for our media. Right now they are going through a purgatory with a digital change and a technology development that costs. It is incredibly important that we have effective pre-support, so that state funds for the media enhance the democratic function of the media.
i-23765ce6404455b1-395	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. As I understand it, the Government will work to maintain the independence of the media and to ensure that government governance is limited.
i-23765ce6404455b1-396	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's exactly how it is. I look forward to all of us democratic parties in this House working together on these very issues.
i-23765ce6404455b1-399	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Government responsible for general policy today, Gustav Fridolin. It is about the ongoing regional inquiry or reform. My question is about whether the government and the government are prepared to also include a review of how power is distributed in our country and what tools regions and municipalities should have in the future to be able to meet, for example, the demographic development we see in many parts of the country and to ensure the welfare that we all want. The way things look right now, you can see it as if the investigation is drawing a new map of Sweden, and I don't want to, but I want something more.
i-23765ce6404455b1-401	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eskil Erlandsson, for the question! I fully agree with the analysis carried out by Mr Erlandsson. We are in a situation where we need to ensure that we have a more efficient public administration in order to ensure that welfare missions – school, health care and other welfare missions – are carried out with high quality for citizens wherever they live in the country. Then, it should be said, maps are not insignificant. The tax burden in a municipality or region is essential for creating the desired development and security, as well as cooperation. The maps are therefore not insignificant, but this is not the only issue that the government is looking at. However, you look at different issues in different contexts. Right now we have a regional committee that has some focus on supporting the initiatives that have existed across the country and are about division, but there are more questions about how power is distributed and how cooperation can take place between different levels in the public sector.
i-23765ce6404455b1-403	Mr President, I would like to My supplementary question to the Government's assertions here is whether the Government is prepared to give the Committee an additional directive also to look at how power is distributed and whether it is possible to regionalise tax bases, so that regions and municipalities are given more and better tools to realise the social mission they have.
i-23765ce6404455b1-404	Mr President, I would like to I am not prepared to announce in this House what directives this investigation will have in the future, but I can assure Mr Erlandsson that Minister Ardalan Shekarabi has a very comprehensive work that includes what is important in terms of regionalisation. As I said in my previous speech, it is also important to ensure good well-being and the wider issues of power.
i-23765ce6404455b1-406	Mr President, I would like to Inequality and differences in performance in Swedish schools have increased. The proportion of pupils attending schools with really low results has doubled since 2006, and the social background of pupils and parents' study backgrounds have become increasingly important for the performance of pupils at school. These developments are serious and in a number of ways unacceptable. The immediate thing is that students do not receive the education to which they are entitled and that students leave school with a sense of failure. In the longer term, doors to other education are closed and inequalities are at risk of persisting throughout the education system or throughout life. The gaps are increasing.
i-23765ce6404455b1-409	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Bergman, for the question! This is indeed the most crucial issue we can address in the field of education if we are to ensure that all students get an honest chance. The problem description is exactly what Håkan Bergman gives. We have seen a school system that has been torn apart in many ways. What we now need to do is to ensure that we invest in the very schools that have had the toughest conditions and ensure that they are turned around and get the best conditions for their work. An important key that we have changed in this government is the Authority Mission Cooperation for Best School. We should no longer stand by and watch from the state when we see a school that, year after year, does not have the opportunity to give students knowledge. Now we will go in and work together with the municipality with the measures that we know give results and have had an effect on other schools. That's how we spread good examples across the country. This is how we invest in the schools that have the toughest conditions. This is the biggest change in the administrative structure of the school since the establishment of the School Inspectorate and municipalisation. It'll make a difference.
i-23765ce6404455b1-413	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. These are very urgent and welcome measures. I think many of the stakes are really good. However, I would like to press the question further: is this enough to increase equality in schools in general and not only in vulnerable schools? Is it enough to overcome this fact that parents'study background is so crucial? My question is: What can we do further to strengthen the compensatory element of Swedish school?
i-23765ce6404455b1-415	Mr President, I would like to As Håkan Bergman describes, this is partly about increased differences between schools, and partly about increased differences between students at a single school depending on the pupils' background. There is one of the explanations that the educational infrastructure, i.e. what is around teachers and pupils – school libraries, recreation centres, special teachers and a functioning and good pupil health – are activities that have been dismantled as the financial crisis was too largely borne by the school. Therefore, investment in educational infrastructure is most important for equality.
i-23765ce6404455b1-417	Mr President, I would like to The events in Kungsträdgården have not escaped anyone. Police chief Dan Eliasson, who was appointed under an alliance government one and who is head of a state authority, believes that one should not inform the Swedish people about the abuse of girls in the middle of the festival – Europe's biggest youth festival, by the way – because it can benefit a certain political party. My question to the Minister for Democracy is: Should a state authority consider decisions that could benefit a certain democratically elected party, i.e. take a stand despite the fact that we have representative democracy?
i-5kxM3771fwqPSUjYr5rDp8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for the question! No, of course not. It is extremely important that the system we have in Sweden, with authorities making their own decisions based on the instructions and regulatory letters that the authorities have to follow, is as pure as possible. This bears the very credibility of the authorities. So the short answer is no.
i-23765ce6404455b1-420	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Democracy. In yesterday's party leader's debate, my party leader raised a question about the role of culture in the events in Kungsträdgården. No matter how much money the government spends on integration measures, jobs, sports and education, it does not automatically become Swedish or integrated. My question is: does the Minister for Democracy agree with the Prime Minister that culture does not matter?
i-23765ce6404455b1-422	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for the question! I don't quite understand it. For me, culture plays the greatest of roles. I choose to emphasise this very point: it is of course extremely important that we now invite and welcome all new arrivals to the culture that we have here in Sweden, which has been characterized through centuries when people have been supported and wet. In particular, civil society plays a very large and important role there.
i-23765ce6404455b1-425	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Baylan. It's cold today. The energy issues seem to be hot. Maybe this time we'll get a clear message. It's 11 degrees below in Stockholm. It's 30 degrees below in Härjedalen. It is below zero even in Malmö. We're in the middle of the cold winter. We all want a stable electricity supply. Otherwise, we'd have to stand here and debate in hats and mitts. The Government has just mentioned that it is almost only nuclear power and hydropower that give us electricity this week. It's nothing new. This has been the case for the last 30 years. Last week, the news came from Vattenfall that our six newest reactors will have to be shut down in four years' time unless the power tax is removed. Then what does the government do? Yeah, first you don't do anything. It's total silence. There were many of us in the Energy Commission who demanded a crisis meeting, but the Minister for Energy chose to ignore us for a week. Today, we were told that the Social Democrats are willing to reduce the impact tax, but that is not enough. I think the impact tax must be removed completely. Otherwise, we will have the same situation again in a few years' time. My question is therefore: how many more reactors is the government prepared to sacrifice before the full removal of the power tax?
i-23765ce6404455b1-430	Mr President, I would like to We have set up an Energy Commission precisely to ensure the long-term supply of electricity and energy in Sweden over the coming decades. We have done so because the situation is serious. We could see that already last year. We have a nuclear fleet, which currently accounts for 40% of Swedish electricity, which is becoming obsolete. During the seminars that we jointly organised last autumn, this has also come to light. But it is not the only challenge we face. It is therefore very important that we now take joint responsibility and work together to create long-term conditions for the energy sector. Of course, in those talks, which I see in the spring, we must also discuss together the remaining six reactors. I have been very clear, both in answers and in articles. But in other contexts, too, I have stated that the six reactors we have, following the announcement of four closures, are necessary as a bridge in a system that I see before me in the long term will be 100% renewable.
i-23765ce6404455b1-432	Mr President, I would like to I am provoked when the Minister for Energy calls nuclear power ageing. In fact, nuclear power is younger than the Minister for Energy Baylan himself. The first reactor was built the same year Baylan was born in 1972. Other reactors were built later. If nuclear power can continue to supply electricity longer than the time the Minister for Energy Baylan will continue in working life, I do not think we should call nuclear energy ageing.
i-23765ce6404455b1-433	Mr President, I would like to Maria Weimer obviously has a point. I don't feel that old, but on the other hand, I'm not a nuclear reactor either. The reactor was actually built before I was born. It started in 1972, the year I was born. That's absolutely true. It is Oskarshamn 1, and there the owners have announced closure. We have a change. It is a change that is taking place throughout the energy sector. It's a pretty radical change. I believe that we have a joint responsibility to ensure that we create long-term conditions for the energy sector, including with regard to nuclear power. It's an important part, but not the only part.
i-23765ce6404455b1-436	Mr President, I would like to The Crime Prevention Council has today released the National Security Survey. The main part of the report deals with questions raised in 2014. In many respects, the National Security Survey shows positive results in terms of security and in terms of development and confidence in the judiciary, but there are also challenges. This applies to the vulnerability to crime. Persons with foreign-born parents are to a much greater extent exposed to crime than others. This applies in principle to all categories of crime: threats, assaults, personal robbery, harassment, fraud and theft. The list is long. This also fits with the picture that some areas in Sweden are more vulnerable to crime than others. We all think that security should be equal no matter who you are and no matter where you live. But my question to Minister Ygeman is: What specific measures does the government intend to take to increase the security of the most vulnerable, in the light of these figures?
i-23765ce6404455b1-439	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Beatrice Ask for that question. It is very much something that should occupy our time to a greater extent: How is it that one group's security does not keep up with the others? A little the same situation we can see for the women. Women's security is increasing, but there is a huge gap between women's security and men's security. What are we doing about the security of socially disadvantaged areas and women's security? I think we can have this with us during the term of office. We can follow it up together and see what the development looks like. I think it is about economic development, jobs and schools in these areas, but it is also about police presence. The reform agreed throughout this House aims to bring more police officers closer to the citizens. Then we have a common task to ensure that it happens above all in the socially vulnerable areas, that it happens in Rinkeby, that it happens in Bishopsgården and that it happens in Rosengård and that they are actually out there creating security and solving crimes in people's neighbourhood.
i-23765ce6404455b1-442	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there are more issues to discuss, but I think it is particularly serious that second-generation immigrants, children and young people with foreign-born parents, are much more affected and exposed to crime than others. I welcome concrete initiatives. But is there an example of what the government intends to do?
i-23765ce6404455b1-444	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I wasn't clear. It was possible to sense between the lines. The concrete results are that we will have more police officers in the suburbs, in the vulnerable areas. There will be a new police station in Rinkeby with over 200 employees. We will strengthen our presence in Gothenburg and Malmö, especially in the vulnerable areas. There's supposed to be a lot of cops. But it is probably also about economic policies for jobs and education.
i-23765ce6404455b1-445	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Education. Swedish students lag behind in mathematics education, compared to other comparable countries. The Alliance government took steps with increased mathematics education in primary schools, just as other comparable countries do. The Parliament has decided that it wants to see more mathematics education in secondary school. My question to the Minister for Education is: when does the government intend to present a proposal on this subject?
i-23765ce6404455b1-447	Mr President, I would like to There are currently talks between the government and the bourgeois parties about what a new timetable for primary school should look like. In these talks, of course, we take care of announcements made by the Riksdag and also the preparation made at the Swedish National Agency for Education, based on a commission from my representative in the Alliance Government. I will problematise the issue – I think that is something that is called for in such a discussion. We have a huge shortage of teachers in Sweden today. It is our common responsibility to ensure that teachers are given the best conditions to also teach maths with the highest quality and that they have time for each student. If it is the same teacher who will devote more time to more lessons without having more time to create quality in his teaching, it can cause problems. If this type of change is to be made, one must be very well aware of the actual results for teachers' ability to teach quality. Quality and quantity do not have to resist each other, but political responsibility is needed if they are not to do so.
i-23765ce6404455b1-450	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Education for his answer. My supplementary question is whether the Minister of Education regards it as a priority to increase mathematics education in secondary school and whether he is willing to take extra steps precisely to ensure that we have math teachers to ensure both quality and quantity in mathematics education.
i-23765ce6404455b1-451	Mr President, I would like to I take all available measures to get more teachers in Sweden. The lack of teachers has grown into a bigger and bigger problem year after year when too few teachers have been trained and too many have left the teaching profession. During the time of the alliance government, one teacher in four left the profession for reasons other than retirement. These are extremely alarming figures. I am not saying that it is because of the alliance government, but it is this evaluation that has been carried out. Then one must see somewhere that we have this situation. If we are going to do more hours of something, we need to get more teachers and more people to stay in the teaching profession longer.
i-23765ce6404455b1-453	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Home Secretary and concerns the civil defence. We have a number of investigations ahead of us on the whole of the total defence. They will help us to make better decisions in the future. I am interested to know the time aspect of civil defence. I understand that the county boards are working for the fullest. Some of them have maintained civil defence, and some have not, and are now at the beginning of this work. But somewhere we must also be able to deal fully with civil defence in due course, and I understand that it may take time. But how long is it planned to take? Is it about years, or will it go faster than that? So my question concerns the time aspect and how long it will take to get civil defence in place.
i-23765ce6404455b1-455	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say that the county boards have this task today. They are responsible for crises and civil defence. If you are worried, you should actually ask your local county administrative board about this work. With regard to the new planning for total defence, the timetable is for the proposal to be in place in June. Once we have seen the scale of it, we will have to take a position on the timetable for re-establishing it.
i-23765ce6404455b1-457	Mr President, I would like to I have been out asking a number of county boards, and I see that they are very different in terms of time. Some have been trained for scenarios, and some have produced the risk analyses to be done and are thinking about how to cope with that aspect. But there are also those who have not done their homework. I therefore wonder how long they will have to carry out what we all wish to be in place now.
i-23765ce6404455b1-458	Mr President, I would like to What should be in place now should of course be in place now. But when it comes to the issue of total defence planning, we will have to come back to it in June. It is only then that we see in what condition it actually is. It can vary quite a lot across the country.
i-23765ce6404455b1-460	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Gustav Fridolin my question, and it's about preschool. Sometimes preschools are primarily seen as childcare, and it is not thought of as an educationally important development for children. There is extensive research that shows just how important this development is. One of the most noted examples is The High Scope Perry Preschool Project in Michigan many years ago. This gave extra educational development in preschool in cooperation with the home to children from poor homes and to children who have shown signs of learning difficulties. Children have been followed for a large part of their lives, and these are dramatically positive results.
i-23765ce6404455b1-463	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Hillevi Larsson describes. According to recent OECD studies, the PISA tests, like the children do as 15-year-olds, can actually show which students have had a good preschool. This shows the educational effect of a good preschool. There are three things that are important that we do. Firstly, it is important that we break the tradition that has been, that pre-school teachers have been excluded from spending on the teaching profession, and ensure that preschool teachers have access, in the same way as other teachers, to, for example, the teacher's salary boost and other government initiatives as we do. Secondly, it is important that we ensure that all children are in preschool class and that the preschool class becomes part of a reading-write-count guarantee with equal access to start reading, writing and counting. Thirdly, it is important that we make government efforts to reduce child groups in preschool. We have a very good preschool in Sweden. But it is based on seeing all children, and then the groups of children become far too large. With government money and new benchmarks from the Swedish National Agency for Education, we want to reduce the largest groups of children.
i-23765ce6404455b1-467	Mr President, I would like to I believe that this is crucial for improving school outcomes and for breaking the high youth unemployment rate. We must begin now for the future generation. The experiments show that it is rather small financial effort that can make a huge difference. A young person who ends up out of work costs 10 million for society and even more if it ends up in crime. I therefore welcome this and look forward to further efforts.
i-23765ce6404455b1-469	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's it. That is the good reason why I am going to have a bigger budget than Anders Ygeman, or actually the other way around. This means that if we do not invest in school, then we will end up in the situation that we have seen that some countries in the world have ended up in, so that we need to spend so much resources on the costs of social exclusion, crime and the other effects that this has on the ability to invest in children in the past. That is why we are reversing the development that has been and is making many investments in the early years. This is where the government's major school investments are made, although Anders Ygeman also deserves the budget he has.
i-23765ce6404455b1-470	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. A year ago, the government and the Alliance concluded the so-called grading agreement. It was a welcome agreement that focuses on continued knowledge focus in school. Part of this agreement was that the national tests in grade 6 should be made voluntary for schools and school leaders. The Alliance stands by the agreement reached with the government. But today, in a press release from Gustav Fridolin himself, the government announced that the national tests in NO and SO should instead be abolished. The question to the Government is therefore: What is the issue? Should the national tests become voluntary in accordance with the agreement that has been made, or should they be abolished in accordance with his own statement, including in Svenska Dagbladet? If the Minister for Education is planning to abolish the national tests, I would like to know against what background, with what support and with what majority in parliament he intends to carry it out?
i-23765ce6404455b1-474	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Erik Bengtzboe. We are following the agreement that has been reached. This agreement states that national tests are made voluntary by transferring them to the test bank, which I believe is the word used. The word that the Swedish National Agency for Education uses is an assessment database. The assessment database will contain samples of the quality of the national tests, for example, which can be used as a teacher in grade 6 in SO and NO. However, it is the teacher who decides on the basis of his or her educational competence when, how and whether to use these tests during the academic year. This means that they are not national tests in the way they have been in the past and are therefore not regulated in the School Regulation. It is this agreement that has been concluded, and I have announced to the Riksdag on several previous occasions, for example when Erik Bengtzboes's fellow party members have asked questions in the Riksdag, that this is how we intend to comply with the agreement that has been reached. There has been a transition period where the headmaster has decided for the entire school. It was because the tests were already completed and ordered by the schools when the agreement was concluded. This transitional period is now over.
i-23765ce6404455b1-477	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that. The national tests are undoubtedly an important knowledge follow-up and an important quality assurance for the Swedish school. Part of the grading agreement is not only to make volunteers to a certain extent, but also to develop them through digitalisation and centralisation. The Minister for Education is therefore standing in this Chamber and says that they do not become national tests in the way they have been in the past but that they will continue to be national tests. At the same time, however, they should be made voluntary and at the same time abolished. I believe that the Minister for Education has reason to develop what is at stake.
i-23765ce6404455b1-479	Mr President, I would like to Now I think Erik Bengtzboe actually wants to misunderstand me. The agreement we have reached very clearly lines up what national tests we are going to have. It does not mention the tests in grade 6 in SO and NO, but we note that they are made voluntary and transferred to the test bank. In the test bank – that's why it's a bank – there are many more samples than these samples. Otherwise, there would have been no bank, but only two samples provided. There are many more tests, and it is called the Assessment Portal and is provided by the Swedish National Agency for Education. There will be this type of test. However, they are voluntary, as is evident from the agreement that has been reached.
i-23765ce6404455b1-480	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. Democracy cannot be taken for granted. The developments we are seeing in Poland and have seen in Hungary in the past terrify. We are also seeing threats to journalists and politicians in Sweden today, which, of course, can have a devastating effect on our democratic society. The threats and hatred of both journalists and the media and politicians can also be seen from a gender perspective, where women are particularly vulnerable. My question to the Minister for Democracy is what initiative the government intends to take. Do you intend to take any initiatives to strengthen democracy in Sweden?
i-23765ce6404455b1-483	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Yes, the government intends to strengthen democracy. In the budget there is a whole inter-election democracy programme. We are strengthening democracy by strengthening resources, i.e. funding, for civil society. It is an important part of the construction of democracy. We have now also piloted a business that is about creating local democracy centres, precisely because we have seen in follow-ups of activities carried out by the MUCF agency that more channels are needed for people's engagement and opportunities to meet around the country. That is also something we do in the budget. In the future, the ambition, which is pronounced and also part of the agreement we have between our parties, is to create the places, arenas and forums – for example the libraries – that play a key role in our democracy and in the building of our society.
i-23765ce6404455b1-486	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. What concerns me is the view of the media, above all, which has also been held up by a political party here in Parliament, namely the Swedish Democrats. It has been said that it is prepared to stop the media, and it has had views on how the media speak. When the media are called into question and cannot be free and independent, the whole of our society and also the values of democracy are threatened. Therefore, I am pleased that the government wants to continue to work and work to strengthen not only democracy but also freedom of expression and media.
i-23765ce6404455b1-487	Mr President, I would like to We'll be gentle. On the one hand, we can be very safe with the model we have in Sweden, for example when it comes to public service and the role of the Administrative Foundation. Now that the government has appointed the new chairman of the Administrative Foundation, we have marked the non-political election through the political act of appointing a publicist, Helena Stålnert, as chairman. This is an important discussion, and it is important that we keep the debate alive and running – precisely because there are politicians and parties who do not fully share this view.
i-23765ce6404455b1-489	That concludes today's Question Time. I thank the ministers and the participating Members.
