i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-16	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me if it is my assessment that labour market training leads to more people getting into work. Labour market training is an important tool for equipping job seekers with the skills needed in the labour market. The action shall consist of short, vocational training courses with a sector-specific content. It is important that those taking part in the training are motivated and have the conditions to be able to benefit from the training. Labour market training had a good impact in the 2000s up to 2007. However, the unilateral management of the former government against groups that were far from the labour market provided limited opportunities for the Employment Service to offer job seekers individualised support. Among other things, there was when the government took over a spending framework for how much funds could be used for early intervention. Labour market training could then be used as an activation measure for the long-term unemployed, and it is not an effective use of the intervention. My assessment is therefore that if labour market training is used properly, that is to say as a tool to match job seekers to job vacancies and for the right target group, it can be an effective effort that leads to more people getting into work.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-20	Madam President, I would like As such, I should like to thank the Minister for Employment Ylva Johansson for his response to my interpellation. Unfortunately, the answer is not very clear, but it is fairly predictable. In fact, the same answer is given to most interpellations made to most Social Democratic ministers, namely that it is the fault of the previous government. I do not think that analysis is entirely correct. I asked my interpellation because I think it is perfectly reasonable to question the effects and possible non-effects of costly efforts. For us, the question of jobs is one of the most important issues, and it is important that we also do the right thing. Labour market training is expensive and does not lead to more people coming to work. In 2014, Arbetsförmedlingen purchased labour market trainings for SEK 1.8 billion. According to the Authority's own evaluations, the measure currently has no impact on the possibility of finding a job. When asked to the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, they also seem to have no other opinion than that the findings of the Employment Service are correct. Nor have I heard of any other body which has shown the positive effects of labour market training. Nevertheless, the government does not choose to reallocate funds from the ineffective measure. Instead, reference is made to the fact that the Swedish Public Employment Service has started a change work. Madam President, I would like In reply to a written question, the Minister for Labour writes on 22 December 2015: ..................................................... The day before Arbetsförmedlingen received criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office for the fact that the courses are not adapted to the different regional and local needs that exist. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, up to one third of the training courses in some counties are procured for professional areas where there is no demand for the labour market. The government has previously announced that all political decisions should be made in the light of whether or not they lead to more jobs. Labour market training does not lead to jobs. Yet the government continues to invest in this measure. Does the Minister for Employment think, given this, that this is reasonable and that it is an effective use of our tax resources?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-28	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has a fairly short perspective. Nevertheless, let us remind ourselves that up to 2007, just over 70% of those who took part in labour market training went directly to work. Then we had a good effect on labour market training. The bourgeois government, however, changed politics. It was no longer the case that Arbetsförmedlingen should allocate the contributions to the unemployed according to what was considered to have the best effect. Early intervention would not be allowed. Expensive measures, such as labour market training – which is an expensive input – would only be given to those furthest from the labour market. Labour market training changed its character from being ready to work to being an employment measure for those furthest from the labour market. Then the flow from education to work fell dramatically. If this were to continue to be the case, it would be pointless to continue with labour market training. I can put Christian Holm Barenfeld right in that. But if we go back to what we had in the past, that labour market training actually gives the skills that give the individual the job and that the employer gets the skills that they lack or find difficult to get, it is still an effective measure in relation to the cost. It is all about this coming to the right people at the right time. Judicating the entire labour market training operation based on the experience gained during the old government is misplaced. Should this governance continue, I agree that it would not be worth continuing with labour market training. But I don't have any plans to do that. I would also like to say that, as far as this government is concerned, it is not a matter of redeployment between labour market training and regular education. We are making huge investments in regular education, unlike the old government. There is an enormous amount of investment in regular adult education, vocational adult education, folk high school, vocational education and training in folk high schools, polytechnics and colleges. There is no contradiction between, on the one hand, investing heavily in regular education, both for those who are not unemployed and for those who are unemployed, and, on the other hand, using the labour market training action for the individuals for whom it is effective. Where it is not effective, it should not be used.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-32	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Labour. The Minister for Labour comes back to the fact that it was the fault of the previous government, that what the previous government did was not effective and did not lead to jobs. Then we can look at the statistics and see that it certainly led to jobs, but I guess this is simply the easiest conclusion to draw. Even if this were the case, however, it would not have solved the problem. It was good that Ylva Johansson mentioned the fact that the Alliance Government was directing labour market training to those who were further away from the labour market. She also mentioned the 70% target before and that it should now be steered back there. I also mentioned earlier that the Swedish National Audit Office criticised labour market training and the Swedish Public Employment Service. We had the privilege of having the Swedish National Audit Office visit the Labour Market Committee last week. I was then able to ask the responsible official some more concrete questions about this. One of the questions I asked was whether it is more effective to direct labour market training towards those groups that are far from the labour market and if those who are closer to the labour market do not usually get jobs anyway. The answer was very clear. Well, that's the case. Those closest to the labour market receive jobs regardless of labour market training. The most effective approach should be to target groups further away from the labour market. He said that they could possibly be targeted at groups that are slightly less distant from the labour market than was the case in the past. However, targeting those who were close to the labour market was not considered effective. The reversal that Ylva Johansson said in his previous post that he did, and what he did before the alliance government, was deemed to be more inefficient than before. Given what we ourselves did, we still saw that it was too inefficient. We believe that it is right to focus more efforts on those who are far removed from the labour market. But you can change and improve. Madam President, I would like My basic question in the interpellation debate is whether the Minister for Labour estimates that labour market training leads to more people getting into work. The Minister for Labour talks a little around the question but concludes by saying: Labour market training can – as the answer says – lead to more people getting into jobs if it is used properly. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, which has nevertheless reviewed, it was not to use in the right way to go back to what was before and that the government is now proposing. I take it that the Minister for Labour's assessment at the moment is that labour market training does not lead to more jobs as it is today. Is that correct?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-40	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld says you shouldn't look at the statistics. If you look at the statistics, you see a clear race. It comes with the change in 2007 when the old government changes the rules for who has access to labour market training. Then it collapses from 70 to 75 per cent in the past to work down to just over 20 per cent. In principle, this is not the result of labour market training. The answer to the question is: if the governance introduced by the old government for labour market training had been maintained, it is not an effective measure leading to employment. On the other hand, education, and we know that historically, can be a very effective measure if it goes to the right people at the right time. It is not, of course, the case that the contradiction is between whether the work market training should be invested in those close to the labour market who get jobs anyway or whether they should be invested in those who are far from the labour market. This has never been the case. Nor have I expressed myself that they should go to those who are close to the labour market. You can look at the minutes later. I put it this way: labour market training should be focused on those individuals who have the chance to get a job after such an effort as labour market training. That's the thing. One should use an effective effort for that individual at the time when it leads to and is the extra effort that makes it come to work. It is about the existence of an employer who asks for that particular competence and does not obtain it in any other way. That is when it is an effective measure. That is how we are now steering politics.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-45	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll have to check the protocol later. Nevertheless, I believe that the Minister for Labour may have misinterpreted or made a different assessment of what I said. Nevertheless, I think I understood that the Minister for Labour said that it was good before the alliance government changed, then it did not turn out well, and now the Minister for Labour intends to steer back. In any case, the Swedish National Audit Office and others who have evaluated answered the questions I asked: It was not good before the alliance government, because those who then got the support had got a job anyway. Then you can be positive and measure: We provide labour market training, and people get jobs. But we can also measure: we do not provide labour market training, and people get jobs anyway. Clearly, if people who get jobs are given expensive labour market training to get jobs, they do not feel that resources are being used effectively. At the same time, it goes without saying that giving labour market training to those who are far the furthest from it makes it much more difficult and takes longer for those people to get to work. One should therefore review and see: How best to get the person far from the labour market into the labour market? We know that those who are closer to the labour market have much easier access to employment on their own initiative without costly labour market training. My final question to the Minister for Labour is: did I misunderstand the fact that the Minister said that it was good before the alliance government, that it was not good under the alliance government and that it was now being steered back as it was before? That's how I interpreted what the Minister for Labour said. According to the answers I have received in the past on this, it means that we are redirecting to something that is obviously even less effective.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-50	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that anyone who gets a job should not have a labour market policy measure. If you compare the current government with the old government, you can see that a lot of people now get jobs anyway. There are a lot of people who get work without passing through Arbetsförmedlingen. The Swedish labour market is doing very well. No one's happier about it than I am. This means that fewer people need labour market policy action, and that is a good thing. I welcome that. Under the previous government, there were fewer people who got jobs anyway. Those who got stakes didn't get jobs either. It's a pretty bad outcome, you might say. No, we're not going back to what happened before. Labour market training should be focused on those people where it is crucial, those who do not otherwise get a job but who receive a job with a labour market training. There's gonna be a job in the pot. It should be possible to get a job after the education. Otherwise, you should not invest in education. Otherwise, it is almost wasting resources. The focus that I and the government have, unlike the old government, is the needs of employers. It is quite common for an employer to say: I need to hire this many CNC operators, for example. If there are then unemployed people with that skills, and not others who are looking for those jobs, I think it is well spent money to invest educational resources on individuals so that they can take those jobs. But it should be invested in those individuals who, after education, can really get a job. It is therefore necessary to work closely with employers in selecting who to invest in expensive labour market training so that there is a high probability that the individual will go to work. Of course you shouldn't do that if the person is already a CNC operator. Then it'll get a job anyway. It's about being the bridge in between. There, labour market training can be a very good tool. I'm not gonna throw it out with the bath water.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-55	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has, given that Sweden is facing major integration challenges, put two questions to me. The first is how I look at the proposal by the Council of Finance Ministers to set up a committee of experts to draw up proposals to promote integration into the labour market. The second question is what opinion do I and the government have on the need for more simple jobs in the Swedish labour market? Fredrik Schulte has asked the Minister for Finance if she shares the view that there is a need for more simple jobs, what types of reforms she looks forward to increasing the number of simple jobs and, finally, what explanation she has for Sweden having so few simple jobs. The questions are left to me to answer. The government has and will need to take a series of measures in the field of education, housing and labour markets in order to make the establishment of new arrivals more efficient. I have taken great interest in the Swedish National Audit Office's reviews and the OECD's recommendations for better labour market establishment. The Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation also provides important knowledge in this context. The government estimates that the number of jobs with lower quali tying requirements needs to be higher, but that is not the only solution. It is important to take advantage of the expertise of those who come to Sweden. Fast track for new arrivals to shortage jobs and increased validation efforts are examples of measures supported in research. It is also important to improve skills in theses. One conclusion of the recent steam time study is that there are strong links between education and skills in terms of reading, counting and problem solving and employment. Increasing the number of hours worked therefore requires, in particular, efforts to equip individuals with good skills, as these skills are key to both entering and remaining in the labour market. The Government's investment in, among other things, the Knowledgelift involves both a substantial increase in the number of places of education and measures aimed at higher quality education for adults. Target groups may be both newly arrived and young adults who have discontinued upper secondary school studies as individuals who need to learn in a transition phase or to educate themselves. The agreement that the government has with the bourgeois parties includes the proposal that the RUT deduction be extended to include additional gardening services and moving and IT services at home. During the spring, the government will continue to develop new measures to encourage entrepreneurship among newcomers and to develop more jobs with lower education requirements. For example, the government will look at additional tax issues for the services sector. It is of the utmost importance that new arrivals are given the best conditions for gaining a foothold in the labour market, which may be an argument for a Commission of Experts. On the other hand, there is considerable experience of refugee immigration in Sweden. In the current situation, the government also has no time to await a Commission's proposal for measures to establish itself in the labour market. Sweden has both experience and current research to lean towards. Investing in education, as the government is now doing, is also necessary for people with the ability to take more qualified jobs not to get stuck in low-wage jobs and crowd them out with short education. All jobs will be needed.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We can fully agree that Sweden is facing enormous integration challenges in the future. The next two or three years will be a really big challenge. Next year, Arbetsförmedlingen estimates that three out of four unemployed people will be far removed from the labour market. New jobs are created in Sweden, but they do not go to this group of people. The Public Employment Service has also reported that their resources are not sufficient to meet this major challenge. They also say that more simple jobs are needed. In addition, the Employment Service condemns the government's target of the lowest unemployment rate. Nevertheless, it shows a clear-sightedness from the authority. Now it is soon only the government that does not realise that integration requires completely new and different solutions than the old traditional ones that we have had in the past. On the contrary, Ylva Johansson has with some ease promised that everyone will get a job within two years. True, it is now corrected for more people to be able to get a job or an education, and it is still a sobering up. But what the government has proposed for this to become a reality is still unclear. Unemployment is almost four times higher in foreign born than in natives. There, Sweden is pointed out as the country with the biggest gap between these two different groups. There is an increase in division all the time, and almost 60 per cent of those enrolled with the Employment Service are born abroad. This is a worrying development. As many as 90 000 more people born abroad risk unemployment with the government's current policy if nothing is done forcefully. We need substantial and robust reforms, we need innovation and we need courage. We haven't seen it yet in the government. The Swedish National Audit Office reports in its latest report that the Swedish Public Employment Service has failed in its actions and that it has an out-of-date working method. I very much hope that the government will address this. Among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office criticises the poor individual assessments and that the whole thing is ineffective. You procure, and there will be long lead times. Flexibility is almost non-existent. You buy educations for jobs where there's not even a job. On the other hand, there are no training courses in shortage professions, which is a total mismatch in helping these people. Car mechanics are a clear and good example. There are almost no trainings for that, but there are screams in the market for car mechanics. There is much to suggest that there will be great difficulties both for the government and for all these people who have come to Sweden in the hope of a better life. The questions remain: What does the government do to stimulate more jobs? What does the government do to make employers want to hire more people from this group? What does the government do for more companies to start and establish themselves in Sweden? On the contrary, we believe that it has become both more difficult and more expensive to hire. It has also become more difficult and expensive to run a business. We are calling for a real job policy for this huge challenge. The Moderates themselves have proposed a long list, and we feel that we are bringing the government before us in this difficult area. We would like the government to take this very seriously and not to take seven eight years before half of this group has come to work. There has been a doubling of the number of people with this background, and since 2011 there are three times as many people standing in line. It is therefore rather urgent to come up with tough information.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-72	Madam President, I would like It is a huge challenge ahead of us in terms of integration. At the same time, I think it is important not to suffer any kind of hopelessness in this situation. For example, you can look at those who came from former Yugoslavia when there was war there. There were not as many people in as short a time as those who have come here from Syria, among others, but it was still not far from there. There were a lot of people who came in a very short time. When you look at that group today you see that there are not so big differences between those who have come here and those who were born in Sweden. Most of them have come to work. When you look at the children of those who came from former Yugoslavia, you will find no difference between them and children with completely Swedish background and with parents born in Sweden. I am absolutely convinced that we can meet the challenge. Ylva Johansson has presented several important areas that we are now investing in. I think it is important to emphasise what the Minister for Employment mentions when it comes to qualifications for different jobs. It can be an easy solution to produce huge amounts of so-called simple jobs. It is clear that there should be work both for those who have higher education and for those who do not. However, we already have a problem today with people with an immigrant background who drive taxis and who can have qualified training and experience from their home countries. We do not want this problem to be much bigger than it is today. On the contrary, we need to be better at taking advantage of the skills available. There are positive examples. One such is the hotel project in Malmö, which I have visited. Relatively recent arrivals, most refugees, have been addressed. It's about people who have either worked in hotels or who want to work in hotels. Most people have experience from their home country working in hotels. Sfi has been designed based on working in hotels so that the pupils learned the words that they above all should be able to, for example, if they are in reception or kitchen. This made them much easier to learn Swedish, because they had both the motivation that the chance to get a job is great and experience from their home country of these words. They came to work faster, and they could use the entire vocabulary and vocabulary needed. Almost everyone got a job, and they got an internship in hotels. Many also benefited from their double language. For example, if there are Russian guests and you have someone who knows Russian at the hotel, this person can help, which is valuable. The project has now been expanded to do so in more areas. I believe that this is a success path that could be done both for so-called low-skilled jobs and for jobs requiring higher education. This is one way of harnessing existing skills and ensuring that not everyone has to drive a taxi. It is of course a good and important job to drive a taxi, but we need to take advantage of the skills of those who have another education. There are many jobs today that are never added because the unemployed do not have the skills they need. If we can then harness the skills of immigrants – this applies both to those who have lived here for a long time and to the new arrivals – I believe that we can both bring down unemployment and increase integration and reduce labour shortages.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-78	Madam President, I would like I think you should take some time and think about what Katarina Brännström means when she talks about her wanting new thinking from the government. What she wants is for the government to conduct the policy of the old government. The result was an increase in unemployment. The result of this policy was that it took seven years before half of the foreign born came to work. The result of that policy was that we had such a high youth unemployment rate that we received EU support to deal with it. Now we have another development. Right now, many employers want to hire. Now you're screaming for labor. We have never before had as many vacancies as we have right now in Sweden. The most common propån I meet when I'm out comes from employers who are in desperate need of finding people to hire with the right skills. Labour market policy must always be pragmatic and based on the situation, and the situation we now have to face is a lot about equipping people to take on the job vacancies. Katarina Brännström condemns the old government's education policy and changed the governance of labour market education. I share that view, and I refer to the speeches I made in the previous interpellation debate on this. At the moment, the employment rate in the whole population is rising, but most of all it is rising among foreign-born women. This is the group that has been the worst in the Swedish labour market, but it is now a very clear increase in the employment rate for that group. Let me remind you of all the good advice that the Moderaten a has given in the past, when, for example, they said that if you restore the employers' contribution for young people, youth unemployment will increase and if you have decent unemployment insurance, unemployment will increase. Now we have it, and what is the result? Unemployment is falling, and youth unemployment is falling most clearly. The figures from the last quarter of 2015 were recently provided by the Statistical Office and showed that youth unemployment has fallen by almost 4 percentage points. I am not saying that we do not have challenges in the Swedish labour market, because we do. We face great challenges; it is true. But it is also important to see that right now there is a strong demand from lots of employers who want to hire. Where does the number of jobs grow most? Yes, it is among jobs with low qualification requirements and high qualification requirements. The groups in between are those who do not have such strong growth of new jobs. There is a growth of the jobs that Katarina Brännström craves, i.e. those with low qualification requirements. What is worrying, however, is that among those who have jobs with low qualifications, the proportion of those with significantly higher skills is increasing than required. This means that those jobs are occupied by people with significantly higher skills. They could take other jobs with higher qualification requirements but instead have occupied jobs with low qualification requirements and thus crowd out, one might say, those who may not be able to compete for jobs with higher demands. This is a clear example of the labour market mismatch which was a striking feature that we inherited from the old government and which we are working hard to change. An important way to deal with this is the fast track. Through them, new arrivals with skills in demand do not waste it by taking jobs with significantly lower qualification requirements when there is a demand for teachers, doctors, cutters, chefs and many other professions. You have to make sure they get in the right job, and the government does.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-88	Madam President, I would like It's quite interesting to listen to Ylva Johansson. She spends much of her time blaming the Alliance government. I find it a bit embarrassing to say that unemployment increased and turns a blind eye to everything else. In fact, it was one of the deepest economic crises in 2008 and several years after, but 350 000 new jobs were created. It is embarrassing that the Minister is describing a reality that does not actually correspond with what it was like. Now unemployment is falling, says the Minister and seems very pleased. Yes, it may have something to do with the fact that it is the Alliance's budget that has been in place until the New Year. No proposals have been made by this government, so you cannot take credit for that. There's a lot of new jobs coming up. It's great that it does, and we're all happy about that. Unfortunately, however, they will not go to the group that I am lifting up here today, that is to say those who are far from the labour market, the new arrivals. The Employment Service says in its reports that it is expected that three out of four will be very far away next year. That's an enormous percentage. It is believed that extraordinary measures are needed for this group, and we have talked about simple jobs and, of course, about training. We are also talking about fast track. There are many ways to solve this, but it is a rather tangled tone on the part of the government. They say that everyone should get jobs and education within two years, but it's not really the real jobs that these people will get. I also think that the government is doing a lot to make our business more difficult. Collective agreements are required of all small businesses to employ people on subsidised wages. It's making a mess of things. 60% of these small companies do not have collective agreements, but they still have good conditions and are the very ones who could offer many of these simple jobs. They build obstacles instead of tearing them down. There has not yet been a single proposal on how we could get more jobs. The Minister says in his reply to me that one should probably be able to look at the tax issue as well. That sounds really interesting. Feel free to follow the idea we started with called RUT. It was a very good proposal where many people who were long-term unemployed or otherwise were far from jobs actually got jobs. Many new companies were created. It is a method that we believe could create thousands more jobs. So please look at that model. When it comes to raising knowledge, I think it's great, but it takes an incredible amount of time. It's taking way too long. I met a person who had been trained through the Employment Service to become a cleaner. Seven years later, the person is employed as a dental nurse. These are such long times we will have to count on if we are to educate all these people who, of course, are also needed in these areas. We need to have many new jobs and many new services in Sweden. We are the biggest do-it-yourself country in the he la world, and we know the reason for it. Buying services is far too expensive. We carpentry, we meek with cars and we do all sorts of things ourselves because we can't afford to buy the services. There is a huge sector here to create new jobs if you only dare to make use of some new reforms.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-95	Madam President, I would like It is difficult not to mention the eight years we have had a bourgeois government and the time when we have had a bourgeois budget after the elections. You can count in different ways. You can talk about the number of jobs created, but you can also talk about unemployment, and that is still the most common concept you use. Unemployment increased. It was a larger proportion of the working-age population than before who did not have a job, and I think that is the most interesting figure. It is now a question of reversing this trend. One can simplify and talk about creating new jobs, but it would be at least as interesting to look at the jobs that already exist but are not added. That is the biggest problem today. There are many unsolicited positions. The number of new jobs is increasing now, but it is difficult to get staff for these jobs. It is therefore important to ensure that people can take these jobs and that those who already have skills can be given further training or validation so that immigrants, for example, can take these jobs faster. This can in itself lead to lower unemployment and also lower labour shortages. That is exactly what the Minister for Labour is talking about. That's what we're betting on now. I don't really know which of the efforts the government is doing that you think is wrong. Is it wrong with skills-enhancing efforts, is validation wrong and is fast track wrong for new arrivals? I think there is more talk about what we are not doing and what the bourgeois government has done in the past that has not produced results and which unfortunately has led to increased unemployment and, at the same time, increased labour shortages. I think the Minister is clear that a new track is now required based on proven research and experience.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-99	Madam President, I would like This is an interesting discussion. It is interesting to listen to the Minister for Labour. And it is not uncommon for Hillevi Larsson to agree with the Minister for Labour. It is well as it should, within one and the same party. What is being discussed is simple jobs. For some reason, the discussion comes to taxi drivers and that they are well-trained people who drive taxis. We're happy about that. But it is good if the driver of taxis has the right training. Anyone who drives a taxi and has another education is welcome to work with what you are trained for. But this is not about the lack of simple jobs. Instead, it is about the lack of functional and effective validation and is a completely different issue. We therefore need to be better at validating and taking advantage of those who have good education and the right skills for jobs where there is a shortage and where you can work. Then a person who wishes to drive a taxi, or do something else, should be able to do so. Sweden has the western lowest share of simple jobs. Ylva Johansson asks if we want the new government to pursue the policy of the previous government. Yes, it would have been a joy. It would have been good for Sweden, for Swedish politics and for our jobs and companies. The previous government ensured that Sweden had the highest employment rate in the EU. As my colleague Katarina Brännström said, some 350 000 new jobs were created in Sweden during the previous government. Fewer were retired early, and fewer were long - term sick. We also did not stow unemployed people away from measures that actually aim to exclude them from the labour market statistics. We had a good economy. At that time we also had a finance minister who was praised both nationally and internationally. Without going into detail, we can well say that this may not be the case today. What's the challenge? What is a little carelessly referred to as simple jobs does not mean that jobs are always simple, but that you need something less education to do them. In this regard, Katarina Brännström raised the RUT and ROT deductions, not least that many new companies were started with the RUT reform. Many people who were previously far from the labour market thus got their first jobs, whether they were new in Sweden or young people who were new to the labour market. A great many of those people were also women, not least those who chose to start a business. I heard a good part of the first speech by the Minister for Labour. It was that this spring we should look at the possibility of looking at tax issues in the services sector. Maybe it's a complete reversal. Perhaps it has been realised that the Alliance's policies and measures led to more people getting into work, that those who were far from the labour market and had slightly lower education had the opportunity to get a job. Perhaps it has been realised that it is then the policy of the Alliance that is required. Is that how it should be understood, Minister of Labour?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-106	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld says that Sweden has the western lowest share of simple jobs. That is a statement that I cannot confirm or deny. But if we take Christian Holm Barenfeld seriously and assume that he has been a sage speaker in the Swedish Parliament who has checked his data before he disseminates them and that they are true, then the question remains whether Christian Holm Barenfeld thinks it is a problem or if he thinks it is positive. If it is in that way that Sweden has the lowest proportion of simple jobs in the West, there is certainly one country that has the highest proportion of simple jobs in the West. Is that the competition Christian Holm Barenfeld wants to participate in? Should Sweden become the country in the world that has the highest proportion of easy jobs? When Christian Holm Barenfeld asks for a change in the fact that we have the lowest proportion of simple jobs, one can implicitly interpret it as that he is reasonably looking for us to stand at the other end of the scale. It is no wonder, then, that the policy he represents leads to a fall in productivity. What happened during the eight years of a moderate government was not just an increase in unemployment. It was not just that the Swedish economy stagnated. In fact, it was in that way that productivity fell. It must be borne in mind that Sweden, on its journey for a hundred years, has gone from being one of the world's most underdeveloped and poor countries to becoming one of the world's richest countries by raising the level of education in the country and raising the skills of the workforce. An environment has been created in which successful export companies have been able to grow and employ highly skilled workers. Madam President, I would like That is the vision of the future, modern politics. That is the policy that we Social Democrats have always stood for and will always stand for. To, like Christian Holm Barenfeld, strive for Sweden to belong to the countries of the West that have the highest proportion of simple jobs is for me a completely bizarre thought. But it may well be that a conservative right-wing man like Christian Holm Barenfeld has that kind of ambition. This is because we do not really want to go into the future. You don't want to be modernised. You want a whole different society. It should not be a society where it is bnp, development and productivity that counts. It should be a society where what counts are class divisions and the opportunity for Christian Holm Barenfeld and his classmates – in a social sense, not in terms of education – to hire people in their service for a cheap money. This is the kind of social analysis and vision that Christian Holm Barenfeld stands for. Sweden may have the lowest proportion of simple jobs in the West – I don't know if that's true. But Sweden also has, in a European perspective, an employment rate for foreign-borns that is higher than the EU average. Sweden is thus a successful country.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-114	Madam President, I would like I would first like to make a few corrections regarding what Katarina Brännström said. It is not correct that wage subsidies require collective agreements. It is correct that collective agreements are required. This is also the case for most wage subsidies under the previous government. I think it goes without saying that tax funds are not being used to dump wages on the labour market. Katarina Brännström believes that labour market policy is equal to tax reductions. If you believe that, you are completely fixed in the draft budget. The current government did not get its budget through until the summer. But labour market policy is about much more than that. On the day I took office as Minister for Labour, we discussed labour market policy. We said right away that young people should be able to get help from day one and should not have to have an activity ban at Arbetsförmedlingen. We deregulated the Public Employment Service. In the first regulatory letter, issued in December 2014, we removed two thirds of the regulations for Arbetsförmedlingen. We also amended a number of regulations to liberalise labour market policy. We signaled directly that we wanted to see cooperation with the municipalities. I met both employment services and municipalities, who started a whole new and long-awaited cooperation. We also steered towards the needs of employers and not just the long-term unemployed. That policy has now been in place for more than a year and, in my view, it has also had an effect. When unemployment falls and there is a strong demand for labour– which we have right now – it is very likely that for those who remain in unemployment, the proportion that is far from the labour market will increase. That is what usually happens when unemployment falls, and that is also what the Public Employment Service predicts. This is linked to the fact that we have a strong demand for the labour market. Madam President, I would like In no way do I want to belittle the fact that we are facing major challenges; of course we are. I would like to emphasise that we need to lift every stone. From the government, we are prepared to assess every serious job proposal with an open mind. That's it. We will have to take new steps and do new things, but we will not open up to re-establish the policy that Katarina Brännström and Christian Holm Barenfeld here are asking for and which the old government brought, because it was a failure. Tax cuts, cuts and no-education had devastating consequences for the functioning of the labour market. We will not go that way. Christian Holm Barenfeld says that people were not stowed away, but 39 000 people were placed in phase 3. I don't know what it's supposed to be, other than stowing people away. We think that people should have the opportunity to have real jobs. Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that all jobs and industries that stand on their own and manage on the market – the labour market is a market – are more than welcome. We now see that many of these jobs and industries are growing. They make it on their own in this market. I do not rule out the use of tax subsidies to influence the labour market and various sectors, but it must be clear that the costs must be considered before spending tax funds in low-productive sectors. The impact in terms of costs and benefits must be considered in relation to this. But it's not quite simple. I do not want to belittle the fact that we are facing major challenges, but we are still one of the countries in the West that has the highest employment rate, and it is increasing.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-125	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that the government lacks a real job policy. What has been proposed so far are trainee places and additional services where the state will pay the entire salary. These jobs are also time-limited, but they are not real jobs and no real job policy. Even the proposals put forward by the government have not become a reality. How many are the trainee jobs? How many extra services have we seen? Yeah, that's not many. During its reign, the Alliance introduced new jobs, which were a completely new form of employment. We also introduced entry-level jobs. Today, about 50 000 people work in this way at workplaces around Sweden, and those jobs are not fixed-term. We also want to reduce taxes on low incomes. It should pay better to go to work. We want lower employers' contributions for the youngest. We also have a proposal for a new form of employment, a first job-employment for young people and new arrivals. We want to maintain and develop both RUT and ROT. We want to extend vocational adult education and training. We want to increase the right to komvux. We also want a compulsory education equivalent to primary school. We want a career introduction for newcomers and the long-term unemployed. We want to increase the responsibility of the state to three years, because we do not believe that what Ylva Johansson proposes can be implemented in two years. We have many suggestions. But we see very little from the government. What Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson said is still a comfort: We should not be afraid to stimulate more simple jobs. I think there will be more simple jobs regardless of how the argument sounds in this House today. It is one of the solutions that will be required. Unemployment is falling. Yes, but why, Ylva Johansson? It is not because of the failure of the old government, it is because we succeeded in our labour market policy despite the difficult times of those years. That is what you are seeing now, but do not be content with it for too long, because it may change. Thank you for the debate.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-138	Madam President, I would like When you mention simple jobs, Patrik Björck comes as a letter in the post up in the speaker's chair and makes a revolutionary speech and wants to divide us into different classes. I don't usually talk about class politics, and I don't usually divide into it. But if there are some who are my classmates, it should probably be Patrik Björck and my other colleagues here in Parliament. Patrik Björck's task here was correct, that the employment rate for foreign born is higher in Sweden than the EU average. But this is not only the case for foreign-born people, but Sweden has a high employment rate. During the alliance government, Sweden had the EU's highest employment rate. That it was so already under the alliance government, I find it difficult to link it to the new government's merit. It's the same with the pensions. Even they are rising now. But that's two years behind. What happens in 2016 is what was carried out in 2014 and so on. That's how it works. The jobs are getting more now, and I hope they will be even more next year. The way things look, it's gonna be. What you lay a foundation for is delivered something later. We introduced the employment phase, which is now to be abolished. It will be interesting to follow, but I note that the people present in the employment phase are people of flesh and blood. Just because the Minister for Employment draws a line with the pen over the employment phase and says that there is no more it does not mean that these people have new jobs and a glorious future ahead of them. We have to make sure something happens. We have many suggestions. Katarina Brännström listed a wide range of proposals for more jobs. What I am waiting for now is to see here and also in the Employment Committee the government's proposal for more jobs.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-144	Madam President, I would like It is good that we agree on that. Christian Holm realizes that Sweden with the western lowest share of simple jobs has the highest employment rate. Then Christian Holm has become a bit wiser during today's debate, and it was nice to be able to contribute to that. It's on me. Sweden has the highest employment rate due to decades of social democratic education policy that Christian Holm's party colleagues have voted against every time. Every major educational reform that has raised the level of education in this country, Christian Holm and the Swedish right have voted against. Therefore, Sweden has the highest employment rate. Every reform of gender equality, Madam President, which has been carried out by social democratic governments in order for women to enter the labour market and which has led us to have the highest employment rate, Christian Holm and his high-level figures in this House have voted against. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to be correct with history writing. I'm still grateful and think it's nice that I've had to help raise the education level at Christian Holm. He has now seen the connection between having the lowest proportion of jobs in the West and the highest employment rate in the West.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-149	Madam President, I would like It's an important thing that differs between me and Katarina Brännström. I do not equate labour market policies with jobs. The most important thing is all the jobs that are emerging in the labour market in companies, in municipalities and in public authorities and to ensure that jobs can continue to grow and that employers can find the right people to employ. Under the old government there was a similarity between labour market policy measures and jobs, just as Katarina Brännström pointed out. At the time, it was more important for Arbetsförmedlingen to have a certain number of people in each measure than to respond to employers' needs for recruitment. We have now changed this policy. There is no intrinsic value in people being in labour market policy measures, unless it is necessary to get to work. Matching is the most important task for Arbetsförmedlingen. Now Katarina Brännström again refers to lower employer's fees for young people. It's almost embarrassing. It is a proven expensive and unsuccessful measure. A few years ago we were able to hear here about the terrible consequences of increasing unemployment if employers' contributions were to be restored to normal levels. The result has been the opposite. Youth unemployment is falling. I am not saying that the social security contribution does not have an impact on employment; it does. But the costs must be weighed against the effects, and it was a provenly expensive and ineffective measure that has been paid for by others. Madam President, I would like We have heard many suggestions from the Moderates. But we have heard nothing about the reform of establishment, which took place during the period of government that was about to help new arrivals to work. I see why. It is a reform that has significant weaknesses. Now there is a wide range of proposals, but we know what applies if the Moderates are given the opportunity to rule. It is tax cuts and cuts, and it is not good for jobs.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-155	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation what he intends to do in order for Sweden to cope with the important transition and at the same time protect Sweden as an entrepreneurial country. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has also asked what measures the Minister will take to ensure that the decisions will not jeopardise Swedish electricity supply and thus hit industrial jobs. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Jörgen Warborn has asked me what other measures, apart from the impact tax, that I and the government will take to prevent the reactors from being shut down. Maria Weimer has asked me what I intend to do to secure Swedish climate-smart electricity supply every day of the year and whether I intend to act to abolish the power tax and when such a decision can be expected. The questions asked concern the same subject area, which leads me to give a comprehensive answer. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, Jörgen Warborn and Maria Weimer are all important issues, from the labour market and energy point of view but also from S verige's competitiveness. The government believes that the situation should be taken seriously. The government is closely following the question of the viability of nuclear power. The government sees the need for stable access to electricity. This issue is important in the energy talks, also in the light of the signals from nuclear owners that more reactors than the four announced have profitability problems. It was precisely in the light of the major changes in the energy sector that the government appointed an Energy Commission in March 2015. The Energy Commission Directives provide for a review of energy policy covering long-term conditions for the production, transmission, storage and use of energy. The work takes a system perspective to ensure a sustainable and competitive energy system with secure supplies of energy. This work includes everything from reviewing the conditions for the individual power laws to analysing the design of the entire market. All the support, taxes and rules associated with the energy system are under discussion within the framework of the Energy Commission. Our most important task is to create a broad political settlement that secures Sweden's electricity supply in a way that benefits both Swedish industry and Swedish households as well as the environment and climate. The Government intends to discuss with the other parties in the Energy Commission how this can be implemented.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-163	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As emerged here, I put the interpellation to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. I asked: What does the Minister of Economic Affairs intend to do to ensure that Sweden is able to cope with the important transition and at the same time protect Sweden as an entrepreneurial country? I also asked what measures it intends to take to ensure that the Swedish electricity supply does not jeopardise industrial jobs. In its reply, the Government notes that the questions concern the same subject area. I note: they do, but we have a slightly different approach to a serious issue. Competitiveness and the labour market are my entrance. And the answer that I read is that the question is important in the energy talks. On 12 January we were able to read the title: Industry to attack the government's energy policy. The government's energy policy is being criticised by the Swedish base industry after Vattenfall has made it clear that more nuclear reactors may be forced to close down. Now the impact tax must be removed, is the message from a hard-tested industry. ..................................................... I wonder: what is the response of the Government to this? How do the Government and the Government intend to resolve this issue? Out in the real world, these strong signals are now emerging about the situation. The Government itself says that the nuclear power owners' signals that more reactors than the four announced have profitability problems are important in the energy talks. What will happen in concrete terms? What's going to happen right now? The government sees the needs, says the Government, of stable access to electricity. Are you in the government then prepared to resolve the situation and find a solution here and now – or when? The clock is ticking. Does the Government take the signals seriously, or does the talk and energy commission become the constant answer? My party colleagues in Skåne wrote a longer debate article about when the cold strikes. They wrote that the cold part of the year and also the rest of the year industry is dependent on energy. A central issue is to secure the energy supply, and for that a base is needed. It is a base that is now being pulled away without there being a safe supply of electricity in its place. Or does the government have a safe and stable line when it comes to access to electricity? Mats Gustavsson, Energy Director at Boliden, says in an interview that it is very unfortunate that the government has chosen to introduce an impact tax on a single type of energy. I agree. Those who write different articles have one and the same line. They believe that the government must act and demonstrate its capacity to act in order not to jeopardise Swedish industry and industry. Is Ibrahim Baylan prepared to do this right now? In the case of Sweden as an industrial nation, this presupposes that there is security in the system. We know that if there is a blackout, there will be huge costs. You can look at the cost and compensation today. It's 40 cents. You get 24, and the impact tax is about 8. The business community is worried. So am I. The government's answer that it is closely following the question of the profitability of nuclear power is, I think, vague when signals have come and are here and now from the business community. Waterfalls have been clear. Industry and business are clear. But what is the situation? What does it mean that the government is following the profitability of nuclear power? I'd like to know. History repeats itself with regard to processes in the management of the Social Democrats, as I see it. No wonder I started thinking about Barsebäck, which was closed. One reactor was decommissioned in 1999, the other in 2005. And – there's a big, big one – it wasn't designed to replace nuclear power when this was done. Is this the situation we are now looking at? Or will there be a bridge over to the road over there, or will you remove the bridge before you start building the road? Government! What is the answer for industry, business and not least the people and jobs?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-177	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yesterday I was in Luleå and in B oden. I was looking at computer centers. It is an exciting new industry that is emerging in Sweden. There are several large international companies that have established themselves in northern Sweden. It's Facebook, among other things – it's probably the flagship among them. They have large buildings with many servers. It's a very electrical-intensive industry. We have some competitive advantages. That's why they're establishing themselves here. We have the cold – it's free. We also have a secure supply of electricity at reasonable prices and at competitive prices, especially now, one must say. And we have a lot of land at pretty low prices. This is a very interesting industry given that the amount of data in the world is constantly growing. There may be very many new establishments in northern Sweden as well as in, perhaps, the whole of Sweden. It is a future industry for Sweden. It is, of course, also an electricity-intensive industry. A few months ago I was in Hylte and visited another electricity intensive industry. I was at Stora Enso. Paper mill is a traditional Swedish industry, and energy costs are often a very high proportion of the total cost. In several of the paper mills, the cost of electricity exceeds the cost of personnel. The electricity is therefore a very important raw material, and it is against this background that I am concerned about the development of the electricity situation in Sweden, particularly with regard to nuclear power. We risk seeing a situation where, for example, mills in Hylte are losing R in competitiveness or where the emerging data centre industry is slowed down as a result of what we see on the electricity side right now. Then it is a little surprising that it is quite empty of answers in what I read and hear from the Minister. It is, so to speak, someone else who is going to solve the task. It's all going to be pushed into the Energy Commission. This is a little surprising, because I think it is more urgent than that. I welcome the fact that the Minister has been a little clearer in the mediers. An article in Dagens i ndustri of 14 January states that the following quotation from the Minister: That is why we will ensure that this is the case in the spring. ..................................................... 中 During the spring to insure us. I welcome that. I like it and thought it was good. Does this mean that the government intends to reduce the impact tax already in our budget bill? I would have liked to have an answer to that, and that is a bit what I have assumed when I put my interpellation. Above all, however, I have asked what other answers the government has to give to what it intends to do to secure nuclear power and the remaining reactors. I would urge those of you who are watching this, both in this House and possibly on television, to listen to the Minister's reply. Does the Minister intend to take responsibility and try to resolve the situation now, or will the Minister and the Government push the matter further into the Energy Commission?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-186	Madam President, I would like There were several of us who were horrified to read the news on the morning of January 7. It is also telling that there are so many interpellations about the impact tax and nuclear power right now. It announced that all Swedish nuclear reactors may have to be decommissioned in four years' time. It's very soon, and I think many Swedes choked on the coffee. But for those of us who have been working on energy policy for a while, it was not really news. We have been receiving signals from the power companies for a long time that profitability is poor. So must energy minist your Baylan have known. Mikael Odenberg has made it clear that Swedish electricity supply is threatened if all reactors shut down. Nevertheless, despite these signals and despite historically low electricity prices, the government chose to increase the impact tax last year. The parable that is close at hand is the image of an ostrich if hope that if he puts his head sufficiently far down in the sand no one will notice him. If you only talk often enough about 100% renewable, the threat of nuclear power may disappear. Madam President, I would like When the announcement from Vattenfall came, we were many parties in the Energy Commission who demanded a crisis meeting on the nuclear issue. What good would it be to talk about future energy policy if the government had already disposed of one third of production? Our wish for a crisis meeting remained unheard of, but at the Energy Commission meeting this Thursday we hope to discuss the issue of power and nuclear power – almost a month later. In his interpellation response, the Minister for Energy refers to the Energy Commission, but to wait to deal with the nuclear crisis until January 2017, when we will be done with our work, is not really serious. The issue of the impact tax must be resolved this spring, as Jörgen Warborn has mentioned, perhaps even within a few weeks because we know that the power companies will have to make their investment decisions already around the month of May. Madam President, I would like In the interpellation response, I have not received information from Minister of Energy Baylan about what the government intends to do to protect Swedish electricity production. The promise the other week was that the government would consider reducing the tax on impact. Is this government policy, or was it just empty talk to reassure the masses? We were able to read last week that IF Metall's chairman is calling for the abolition of the impact tax and for research into the new generation of nuclear power to be carried out. The metallb assholes appealed to the government to lift the new nuclear power ban that exists again. I agree with IF Metall. The question is whether Ibrahim Baylan does. Does Minister Baylan think LO is right or wrong?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-194	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the interpellants for important contributions to a very important debate and discussion! Sweden's electricity and energy supply is central to our way of life, to our ability to find new jobs, to increase growth in the country and to our export earnings. The basic industry is thus very important. Madam President, I would like This debate is not new. It has continued for 40 years. We have been struggling about nuclear power, and it has paralysed energy policy for 40 years. We have been able to afford it, because in fact the energy supply has been working quite stable over the last 40 years. But I would like to say that now it is serious. There are now very rapid changes in the energy sector. Globally, we see fantastic technological development in all parts of the energy sector. This is evident from the price of oil, which is the lowest in more than a decade. This is evident in wind power, where production costs have fallen by 60% over the last decade. The production cost of solar cells has fallen by 80 per cent. It can be seen on transmission and smart grids. It can be seen on storage, which has become much cheaper. This is evident in digitalisation, which provides an internet of things with completely different opportunities for efficiency efficiency. Add to that, Madam President, a development in Sweden that has been driven by both social democratic and bourgeois governments, which has meant that in ten years we have increased the production of electricity in this country by 20 terawatt hours. At the same time, through energy efficiency improvements in industry and households, we have managed to reduce use by 10 terawatt hours, i.e. a net of 30 terawatt hours. The result of both global and national changes is very low prices. These low prices have had consequences not only for nuclear power but for the entire energy sector. Last autumn Sweden's Television reported that Statkraft, the Norwegian energy company, freezes all investments in wind power. At Christmas, nuclear power owners announced that the remaining nuclear reactors have profitability prospects. In today's Ndustri it is the hydropower owners who say that with these prices and the conditions that exist, it is very difficult to get profitability together. I would like to say that this is much more complicated than simply being reduced to one small issue of an individual tax. I believe that the situation is such that no single government, either a minority government or a majority government, is able to give the long-term information that the energy sector needs today in order to secure the investments necessary to ensure that we always have electricity at competitive prices. The only possibility for Sweden to create such long-term conditions is that we do it together. I think this is a historic opportunity to actually cross the block line in the Energy Commission to think about long-term conditions so that we can always secure electricity for both the base industry and our households. The government is prepared to take the necessary steps to achieve this, and that is why we have said that we are looking forward to discussing this. All eight parties in Parliament are part of the Commission. I also see that we have these discussions in the Commission this spring so that we can give the information that the energy sector needs in good time. I think we can only do this together.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-202	Madam President, I would like It's obvious, says the Minister for Energy. He addresses changes in technology and global conditions and conducts a global analysis, including that it is difficult to get profitability together. It's more complicated than it's about a tax. That tax has been put on a type of energy, and it has been felt under the conditions created by the Social Democratic Government together with the Green Party. Long-term is one thing. Talks, discussions and good energy policies are needed for Sweden's future. But things are happening here and now, and they are happening today. I would like the Minister for Energy to say that Sweden should have a safe way forward, and therefore Swedish industry and Swedish industry should not be jeopardised while we are working on changes and new opportunities in the energy market. I would like him to reply that we should be clear not to put the country in a difficult situation but to find a way forward step by step. The tax has been imposed by the government directly, although the government says it has not. An energy tax has been levied on nuclear energy. When the departments did their analyses in this area, it must have been calculated that if step A is done, you will end up on step B. If we cannot calculate that subsidies on other energy sources and an impact tax on nuclear power will lead to something happening in this area, there is little in that analysis. Or the government does not want to confess that there are different answers to the questions, so it refers to Vattenfall's decision. Of course it is, but Vattenfall is not toneless in the policy of the government. How will industry and industry be able to act, the Minister for Energy? Will there be a secure energy policy in our country in the future?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-207	Madam President, I would like When the Government describes how the issue should be resolved, it should happen together. At the same time, the government carried out a unilateral substantial increase in the impact tax in the budget. The tax was increased without discussion in the Commission. Now that the government wants to reduce the tax, that should be a task for the Commission. Does the government want to lower the tax? It would be nice to hear a yes or no on that question. In that case, you can do it yourself. There is a clear point in what the Government says, namely that it is not just the impact tax that will solve the whole situation. I share that view. But let's start here and now. Interpretations are about the impact tax. Let's start by looking at it. We believe that it can be reduced already with the current budget. Restore the tax to the level it had before the Social Democratic-led government chose to raise it. There is no need for an Energy Commission here. Action on the part of the government is needed now. In a next step, we want the Moderates to review the design of the impact tax. This could possibly be done in the Commission because it is a more long-term issue, but the impact tax itself needs to be reduced already now. What other proposals does the government have to push into the discussion on how to resolve the electricity situation? That is a question I ask which I do not receive an answer either. It would be interesting to hear the Minister make some suggestions. I note that today's industry is also coming up in this debate. It has done so in the past in this House. I also have a few clips here, including what has been mentioned earlier from 26 January this year. Anders Ferbe, Federal Chairman of IF Metall, wrote on the debate page in Today's industry under the heading There we can read the following: are existing nuclear power needed to be used out of life and one condition for that is that the impact tax on nuclear power is removed. Such a statement is extremely important. Then industry can rely on safe and affordable access to electricity in the short term. ..................................................... Does the Minister think that Anders Ferbe from IF Metall is right or wrong? There is a front page from Today's industry a few days earlier, 14 January. There's the big headline. S ready to cut taxes. It's about nuclear power. There is a picture of Stefan Löfven, who states that there is a new reality. I share the view that there is a new reality. What does the Minister say? Is the Prime Minister right or wrong?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-214	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Energy says, among other things, that the debate is not new. I would argue that this discussion is still unique. The current crisis in nuclear energy has not existed since nuclear power was built up. What we are seeing today is a threat to all reactors. We do not see a threat to the closure of Barsebäck because of a political decision or the threat of four reactors. The alarming news in January from Vattenfall was that all Swedish nuclear reactors may have to be shut down in four years' time. It's new. I would therefore like to say that this debate is new. We have not seen this type of energy policy crisis for a very long time. The Minister for Energy mentions that we do not want to focus on just one tax, because f rye is much bigger than that. It is true that the issue is part of a whole, and energy is much wider than just a single tax on effect. In order for us to have time to discuss a future energy policy and to have some options left, I think the issue needs to be addressed now. The Liberals' proposal is to abolish the impact tax altogether. We think a drop will only be a half-quake wise. Then we will be standing here again in two or three years' time, a few more reactors will be in danger and the impact tax will have to be reduced a few times. We believe that the right thing to do is to abolish the entire impact tax now. Then we have bought ourselves time, and then we can discuss the energy system of the future in peace and quiet.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-217	Madam President, I would like Hearing alliance representatives in general and moderate MPs in particular stand in the Chamber arguing for reduced taxes and preferably removed taxes is neither new nor unusual. On the contrary, in their world the answer seems to be to lower the tax regardless of how the question is formulated. In this particular case, I think that there is still reason to reflect a little bit more. In the current rather noisy debate, the target is the impact tax on nuclear power. It is presented in the debate as an urgent issue and that there is an imminent threat to the whole of Swedish electricity supply here and now. I believe that everyone involved in the debate knows very well that the issue is much more complex and complex than that. But the dramaturgy benefits from simplification. That's it. In Sweden there is a mix of taxes in the energy sector. There are taxes on production and consumption. Some taxes are more or less fiscal in nature. Other taxes are intended to govern and influence behaviour and consumption. Some treasures have probably shifted character over time. Thus, the issue of taxes and instruments is also a very important part of the important and challenging work that we in the Energy Commission have to take on. Today's debaters also know that. Taxes and instruments are essential elements of what will certainly be the Commission's major and important challenge, namely to find the design and framework for a future market model for Swedish energy policy in a Nordic, European and global context. Therefore, the tax issue, including the issue of the impact tax, should be dealt with in a comprehensive, non-partial and partial way. Of course, an isolated examination of an individual tax in this area also affects the whole. Everything else is unserious to say. The tax affects both the functioning of the electricity market and, of course, the revenue side of the state. What else will next week's interpellation debate be about? Then maybe it's the property tax on hydropower? The property tax on hydropower per kilowatt-hour produced is higher and more severe than the tax on nuclear power. As the Government mentioned earlier, opinion formation has already begun in the media. In 2015, when the government proposed and implemented an increase in the impact tax on nuclear power, it was produced as a major increase. Big in relation to what – to history, the market or what? Yes, the impact tax was increased by 17 percent. What's in money? In the state budget, it is estimated at SEK 250 million per year. At Nordpool Spot the reaction was 1 øre per kilowatt hour. It says something about the general situation and the pressure that the whole power industry finds itself in. In 2008, the then alliance government increased the impact tax on nuclear power by 24 per cent. My questions to the representatives of the Alliance are therefore: who has increased the tax on nuclear power most? Is it the alliance government, or is it the current S-MP government? Alternatively, the question can be formulated as follows: What is the most, 17 or 24 percent? In fact, what line does the Alliance take in such a debate? Maria Weimer and the Liberals are in favour of the full abolition of the impact tax. The cost of it is somewhere around SEK 5 billion. Moderates and Christian Democrats honour their own old tax increase and want to go back to that level. The Center Party has said yes to the government's proposal. I would be grateful if I received an answer from the bourgeoisie to a question that had to be resolved within the Energy Commission's mission. What is needed is a broad cross-block energy policy agreement, because that is what Sweden and Swedish energy policy need.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-226	Madam President, I would like I thought the last post from Ingemar Nilsson was symptomatic. The question both in that and in the speech of the Government is: What do the Social Democrats want? We in Sweden are facing a number of major challenges in the field of energy policy, since households and companies need a secure electricity supply. The challenges of today's debate are the challenges of nuclear power and the need to increase hydropower production – all in order to achieve the higher societal objective of having a secure electricity supply. I think, Madam President, that the Minister for Energy wisely described a great deal of these challenges. But the common denominator for Ibrahim Baylan and Ingemar Nilsson is that they do not answer the question what the Social Democrats want – apart from having talks and signaling that it is time for responsibility. I share the view that it is wise to talk and that it is good to take responsibility on such an important issue as energy policy. We can say, Madam President, that in the course of the whole year the Energy Commission has been working, we have not really had substantial discussions between the parties to a great extent. I can tell you that my party and colleagues in the Alliance have put forward series of proposals in the energy policy debate where we point out solutions and ways forward on various issues. These include, for example, the hydropower mentioned in today's industry at present. The Moderates show with a number of concrete proposals how we can protect but above all increase hydropower to cope with the power issue and the future electricity system in Sweden. We have also, together with the Alliance, pointed out how we can develop the electricity grid in the future Swedish electricity system. But the question remains: what do the Social Democrats want? There is a discussion that nuclear power has problems in terms of profitability in the combination of low electricity prices and high costs. As Ingemar Nilsson rightly says, there are a few different kinds of solutions to this coming from the alliance parties. But these are solutions and concrete input. The question remains: what do the Social Democrats want? We don't know. The answer to that in the interpellation response, Madam President, is that there should be a discussion about it. One question to which I would like answers from Minister Baylan is this: What does the government want with this? Should the effect tax be maintained, reduced or removed? And are the Government and Government prepared to look at other solutions to address the challenges of nuclear power, such as reviewing an issue such as the placement rules for the KAW fund? It is really a question of sending out signals about what kind of discussions we can have. If we are to take it seriously to have an Energy Commission and responsible talks, we need political parties to come up with concrete proposals. The Social Democrats or the Green Party have not yet done this in the Commission's work. I hope that answers will come, including in this debate, Madam President.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-236	Madam President, I would like It was an ant al questions that I will try to graze off within my four minutes. What do the Social Democrats want? It is very simple: we will at every stage act on behalf of the government to secure Sweden's electricity supply in a way that benefits both industry, the environment and the climate. That is a very clear answer. It is also partly an answer to the question asked by Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson – whether we are prepared to act in such a way that we secure the supply of electricity for industry and industry. The answer is yes. This is one of the fundamental objectives of the whole operation and the appointment of the Energy Commission that is currently working. Lars Hjälmered and Jörgen Warborn as well as Maria Weimer are calling for information here and now. I think these are issues that are so large and important for the country's development that it would be directly unserious to try to conduct a negotiation from the Parliament's pulpit. During my twelve years in Parliament, I have never seen any cross-block agreements reached here in the speaker's chair. On the other hand, in response to your questions, we are prepared to discuss each part – yes, also the impact tax and nuclear – to ensure that we get a good development that always secures electricity for both our households and our industries, not least for the basic industry that has this as one of its most important inputs. Jörgen Warborn also asks what further questions this might be about. Yes, one of the issues that has come up in the Commission's work when we have had discussions and discussions with both experts and the industry is the functioning of the market. Today, we are paying mainly for the amount of electricity. It is a system which, although it has been criticised, has worked reasonably. We are now at a time when more and more production entering the market has zero marginal costs. It creates completely new incentives in the sector. In Germany, which has a high proportion of weather-dependent production, electricity prices went from minus 75 øre last year, i.e. producers paid 75 øre per kilowatt-hour, still up to almost one krona per kilowatt-hour paid by consumers. This makes of course that you have to think about how this is to happen so that we can not only guarantee the amount of electricity – I think we in Sweden have very good conditions to do with our hydropower, our forest and our wind that blows quite a lot more than the one in Germany – but also make sure that we have an effect in the system every day, every minute, all year round. Then the question of the design and functioning of the market becomes very interesting but also very complicated. You should know what you're doing before you do it. Maria Weimer believes that a reduction in the tax on effect is only a semi-quake and that it is a removal that is the right thing to do. I don't think you should rule anything out before you sit down and do this kind of reasoning in the spring. I also see before me that we have a joint responsibility to give such a message that we will have a smooth development in the Swedish energy sector towards what, I hope, will eventually become a 100% renewable system.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-248	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. It was gratifying to have an answer yes. It was clear. I expect that what I describe as a bridge from present to future is also there. It is now fragile, while getting away from a situation where a situation has been created that is embarrassing and serious up to the future. I would also like to hear whether Minister Baylan and Ingemar Nilsson understand the concerns of business and industry, whether they believe it to be justified and take it seriously and whether there are proposals that do not jeopardise the journey forward. I would like to conclude by wondering: when he leaves today's debate with Ingemar Nilsson, what will the Minister for Energy do in concrete terms to propose to the industry what is going to happen here and now?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-252	Madam President, I would like When the government took office, Vattenfall investigated the possibility of expanding reactors at Ringhals. Then came the government declaration, and the signal policy was in motion. Suddenly they quickly dropped these plans. After that, it has been announced that four reactors in Sweden will be closed down. There are no decisions, but according to Vattenfall it is in the direction of danger that all of their reactors may be shut down. Then it is interesting to hear the Government say that in every situation the government will act to benefit industry and the climate. I think that a position to benefit both industry and the climate would be to look a little more aggressively at nuclear power. Research into new nuclear power would be a forward-looking policy. However, I also realise that the market situation is not optimal. Ingemar Nilsson is ragging a bit about the rise in the ear. But for Stora Enso, whom I mentioned at the outset, it means many millions of dollars. That one-way is competitive and means lost jobs in the Swedish paper industry in the long term. A penny may sound a bit but it means a lot. I would also appreciate it if the Government would comment on the Nuclear Waste Fund's investment rules, because I think it is a bit in the air. Thank you for the debate.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-257	Madam President, I would like At least we get a message from the Minister for Energy, and that is that the Social Democrats want to secure Swedish electricity supply. That sounds reassuring. That is something other than the unclear mantra of 100% renewable. To secure Swedish electricity supply sounds better, I think. The question is whether this should happen by continuing to import fossil electricity from Denmark and Germany, as we do some cold winter days, or by starting oil power plants, which are harmful to the climate. Or should this be done by reducing our electricity production so that we can no longer export to the neighbours who need and are dependent on Russian gas and coal power? Ingemar Nilsson mentions that the tone is high, and I can only agree. It is not often that the Chairman of LO or IF Metall goes out with such harsh criticism of an S-government.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-260	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that Lars Hjälmered's speech is quite illustrative and descriptive of the complexity of this issue and how difficult it is. If it is something we at the meetings of the Energy Commission have tried to understand and learned, it is that system thinking is something we must have in all respects. System thinking is required. I dare to say that there is less and less talk about energy and the problem of the lack of energy. There is talk of the need for effect. A purely technical aspect of this is that in this case no force is unique. The loss of a nuclear reactor is no less a problem from the point of view of effectiveness than if the wind is moaning, the sun is not shining or we have a dry year. Regardless of the type of production, the issue of impact is central. This is also the clearest signal for industry: delivery security and quality is A and O. This is the most important issue for industry. I have full respect that 1 øre is also money, Jörgen Warborn. But I dare say that Stora Ensos's problem is not energy prices. At the moment, the industry in Sweden has extremely low energy prices. In the short term, the industry is in a good position. Their problems are in the long term. The competition problem for Stora Enso is that their market is disappearing because people have stopped reading paper. That is the problem of Stora Ensos and the whole paper industry, and I think I have decent contacts with it. Let me stress to Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson what has been said before: guarding industry is a prerequisite for Swedish politics. There's no other signal coming from our side. I hope and wish that Maria Weimer will listen to IF Metall and LO in all other respects when it comes to Swedish business policy. Then I think it'll be much better.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-266	Madam President, I would like I think one of the questions we can take with us from this debate is: What does the government want? It's a broken question. I understand that it is a bit sweaty for Ibrahim Baylan in the cooperation between S and MP in view of the deep divisions that exist in a number of fundamental energy policy issues, such as nuclear power. This also applies to the future of hydropower, on which I hope we can have a serious discussion. We know that the S-MP government is deeply divided in the basic view of what you want with the Swedish hydropower and that it can be a bit difficult. That is why we are asking these kinds of questions. My party and colleagues in the Alliance have been presenting for a year in the Commission's work a series of different proposals and solutions in the area of energy policy for hydro, nuclear, electricity and much more. Although there are no negotiations in these speaker's chairs and in this forum, it is assumed that there will be some sense in this type of conversation that one will be prepared for the table. It takes more of an energy minister and a government than just saying that it is important that we talk and take responsibility. It's about presenting some kind of concreteness. Madam President, I would like Just now Ibrahim Baylan said that in practice he is open to charging for effect. About the essence of this with market design, design, electricity, energy and effect, I say: Great! That is what we have been asking for for a year. We wish for more concrete input from the government parties. We've put a lot on the table. Should there be any point in these talks and we should be able to solve some, you can not only talk about conversations and taking responsibility, but then it is concreteness that applies. Then we are back to the fact that it can be difficult for Ibrahim Baylan with these concrete questions about nuclear power: Is the government's ambition to maintain, to lower or to remove? Is it willing to open up a discussion on the Nuclear Waste Fund? If you are there, there are good opportunities to meet the overall societal goal of ensuring security of electricity supply. But that requires more political action and responsibility from the Minister and the government.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-273	Madam President, I would like It is part of the opposition's role to be critical of the government's actions or what one lacks. That is the very basis of the work in this House. I was in opposition myself for eight years. But what Swedish industry, Swedish households and, above all, the Swedish energy sector need is less wood and more cooperation. What Lars Helmered said about the government, I could say about the Alliance. Let us take the impact tax issue as an example. The People's Party proposes a removal, while the Moderates want to remain at the level of all the years that the bourgeois government ruled, i.e. the same level as the government minus 250 million, about 4 1⁄2 billion. For its part, the Centre Party has accepted the level proposed by the government last year. I could say that of all the proposals that Lars Helmered says they have presented, I have only seen one in common. That is the extension of the networks, and we can agree on that at once. That is not the difficult question. But it does not benefit the rather difficult situation we have in the energy sector that we are banging each other in the head in this way. Nuclear power has concerns at these price levels and with the futures with which it is traded, as well as hydropower and wind power. Every force has it. If we are to be able to secure long-term conditions, we need to put aside prestige. The government is prepared to do so. The government does not exclude any issue in the discussions we need to hold in order to create the security that the energy sector so badly needs so that we can always secure electricity and power for Swedish industry and Swedish households at competitive prices.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-278	Madam President, I would like Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me I would like to begin by thanking you for the questions surrounding the electricity market. These are important issues for Sweden's competitiveness, both now and in the future. With regard to the initial questions on electricity areas, I believe, like the former energy minister and the previous government, that the Southwest link should first be put into operation, even if it is delayed, and the effects of this should be analysed before any market intervention can be considered. The long-term best measure to eliminate possible price differences between bidding zones is to strengthen transmission capacity. It would be doing things in the wrong order to first intervene on the market and then wait for the launch of the Southwest link. I can also say that for several years we have generally low electricity prices in Sweden and that the price differences between electricity areas have been generally small. Against this background, I currently intend not to take any further action. However, I will closely monitor developments in order to be able to act if deemed necessary. The government is closely following the question of the viability of nuclear power. The government sees the need for stable access to electricity. This issue is important in the energy talks, also in the light of the signals from nuclear owners that more reactors than the four announced have problems with profitability. It was precisely in the light of the major changes in the energy sector that the government appointed an Energy Commission in March 2015. The Energy Commission Directives provide for a review of energy policy covering long-term conditions for the production, transmission, storage and use of energy. The work takes a system perspective to ensure a sustainable and competitive energy system with secure supplies of energy. This work includes everything from reviewing the conditions for the individual power laws to analysing the design of the entire market. All the support, taxes and rules associated with the energy system are under discussion within the framework of the Energy Commission. Our most important task is to create a broad political settlement that secures Sweden's electricity supply in a way that benefits both Swedish industry and Swedish households as well as the environment and climate. The Government intends to discuss with the other parties in the Energy Commission how this can be implemented.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-287	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Energy for his answer. In the previous debate we came up with some questions about energy balance versus power balance. It is interesting because the interpellation that I have made and which concerns electricity areas, which may be the main issue, is precisely about the balance of power and the problems with this in southern Sweden. It is a well-known problem that has existed for a long time. The problem worsened dramatically when the two nuclear reactors in Barsebäck were decommissioned in 1999 and 2005. Then we have the electricity distribution that means that prices can now be different in different parts of the country. In the southern part of Sweden, where there is a shortage of production but where there is a high consumption of electricity, the effect is that prices are pulling away. The situation worsened clearly in January. We could for a few days see that the price difference was very significant. In southern Sweden it was for a few days more than twice as expensive as in northern Sweden. Clearly, there is a problem. It is also clear that the problem is likely to get worse when further nuclear reactors are decommissioned. All nuclear power plants are located in Electricity Zone 3, that is, near Electricity Zone 4, which is most exposed today, and this will exacerbate the problems. The Minister for Energy says in his reply that it would be doing things in the wrong order to first intervene in the market and then wait for the launch of the South West Link – this as an explanation for why he does not want to act right now. This makes the Minister sound as though it is a free and unregulated market where he would prefer to avoid going in and disrupting. But the problem, Madam President, is that it is not true. There are few markets that are so heavily regulated and influenced by political decisions such as the energy market. So it is political decisions that have created the worrying situation we are now seeing in South Sweden. The closure of the two reactors in Barsebäck, which I mentioned earlier, was pushed through by Social Democratic governments in 1999 and 2005. It was political decisions that exacerbated the situation and the lack of impact that already existed in southern Sweden. It took place without making any decisions that could solve the problem, even though it has been known for decades. When the Minister for Energy says that he does not intend to take any further action on the grounds that he does not want to intervene in the market, I think that is a rather strange and inverse logic. I see it this way: if it had been a free market, I would have understood that the Minister wants to wait and avoid interfering with and disrupting the market, but in a market where it is precisely political decisions that have created an unreasonable situation where households and companies in southern Sweden now have to pay dearly, it is directly irresponsible not to be prepared to act to remedy the problem. It is political decisions that have created the problems, and political decisions are needed to remedy them. There are proposals for solutions, which I set out in the interpellation. The way I see it, it's only for the energy minister and the government to get started. There are detailed proposals, and if the government wanted to act immediately, it would be able to resolve the problems or at least minimise them. My direct supplementary question to the Minister for Energy is: why do the government and the Minister for Energy not want to act to resolve the problems created by political decisions in the late 1990s and early 2000s by political decisions?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-299	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that I agree with Jonas Gjörtler that it is not good for consumers to meet different prices, at least not in the long term. I, like the previous moderate-led government, believe that strengthening transmission capacity is the best solution for smoothing out price differences in Sweden. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler says that these are political decisions. Yes, it is very much so. Not least are supranational political decisions. When price areas were introduced during the previous government, it was not because we decided politically in this parliament, but after contacts between the Swedish power grid and the European Commission, which felt that it was breaking the internal market. To that extent, this is not a new question. Nor is it new that it is being discussed in this House. I have been amused to look at the sound of the debate here. When we Social Democrats were in opposition, we put such tough interpellations to the then government. Even then, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler was active in the debate. In a non-repellation from Tuesday, November 29, 2011, he argued exactly as I have now, because that is exactly how the previous government argued. In this respect, we cannot be as irresponsible as ever, as we have both argued in much the same way. That is what is practically reasonable and which we can reconcile with the rules that apply in the European Union. I will quote the interpellant, because I think what he said in the interpellation debate was very wise: Price differences will not be significant throughout the year. Maybe they won't even be around all year. ..................................................... It's true. I think that was a wise reason at the time. I also think it is important that we now work together, not least within the Energy Commission, to expand the transmission capacity so that we do not need to have different price areas in our country. I think that we should basically strive long-term for electricity to flow across all parts of the country so that we can have a single price for electricity. In order for this to be reconciled with the political decisions that Jonas Gjörtler makes, we need to do something about the bottlenecks. Some work is in progress. In addition, Swedish power networks have increased their ambitions in terms of investments in the networks. In the long run, I hope we get to the point where both Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler and I can be pleased that we do not have price differences and therefore different price zones in our country.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-307	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Energy. I must give the Minister for Energy that it is a bit resourceful when you can look up old speeches, take up what has been said in previous debates and turn it against the debater. One should remember, however, and note that there is a lot that has happened since then. For example, the Alliance Government carried out the rapid investigation that I have mentioned in a motion, and I have also addressed in the interpellation the proposals that were presented. So the Alliance government saw these problems and did something. Proposals were quickly examined so that something could be done about them. That is why there are now ready-made proposals that the current government could use to try to resolve this. But the Minister for Energy does not want that, but says that it is better to wait. I think it's a little unfortunate. We can fully agree that the long-term problem is best solved by building up the transmission capacity; we are in full agreement on that. The question is not so much about it, about the long-term, but rather about the short-term problems. There we see that the situation is rapidly in danger of getting worse. We have already seen that price differentials are increasing. Compared to what it has looked like in the past, it seems that there is greater sensitivity in the system already now. When nuclear reactors start to be decommissioned, the problem is likely to worsen further. We also have a cable for the Baltics that will be operational soon. It will probably for a larger part of the time be a cable where we export electricity. It thus impairs the power balance in the southern parts of Sweden, in area 3 and area 4, where the cable connects. This simply underlines that it is more urgent now than ever to do anything about this problem. I would like to say that I think it was a bad model right from the start. It is not true, as the Minister for Energy says, that it is supranational decisions to do exactly this way. It was the case that the European Commission demanded that Sweden do something other than what it did at the time, that is to turn the power tap off to Denmark when there was a problem – it was not allowed to do that for competition reasons. But the European Commission did not say that it would do exactly this – divide Sweden into four bidding zones – but it was a model that was chosen by Swedish power grids. I have always felt that it was a bad model, which I have also set out, among other things, I think, in the debates to which the Minister for Energy refers. It had been possible to do so in other ways, for example in the way described in the quick investigation that I have referred to in the past. In the study that was carried out when we first discussed how to make a division into bidding zones at all, we said that we should not make a division into four areas in the way that was then done. I have never been able to get any good explanation from Swedish power grids or from anyone else to that being the case anyway. I can agree with the Minister for Energy that we should not frighten consumers. There is no need to enlarge or exacerbate the problems. But there is also no reason to do the opposite, i.e. to ignore them or to pretend that the problems do not exist. We see that the differences in electricity prices between the different areas appear to be increasing. It costs money for households and companies in southern Sweden. There are ways to solve this. The government can – if you want. My question to the Minister for Energy remains: why is the government not prepared to do anything to solve these problems?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-316	Mr President, I would like to Don't get me wrong, honourable Member. What you said, I didn't take it up to use it against you, but I agree with you. I just agree with what you said in that debate. Basically, this is not good. But we have these electricity areas precisely because Swedish power grids would otherwise have been able to go on heavy fines. I am not enough expert enough to say that this is the most optimal solution. But that is what was decided in the previous government, and that is what we have today. The position of the previous government in the debate that I read, the position that was supported by the honourable Member, was: first, let us expand the networks and then assess whether something else is needed. I am no stranger to taking further action. However, like the previous moderate-led government, I would like to wait for the South-West Link to come into place and see the effects of it, and then make an assessment, perhaps even together, of what we need to do further to minimise these effects. It is just as the honourable Member says: with the information we have on the oldest 70s reactors, the differences are in danger of increasing. The calculations available from the Swedish Energy Market Authority show that they can increase from an average of 1 øre per kilowatt hour to 1.7 øre per kilowatt hour. I can assure Jonas Gjörtler and those listening to the debate that we are taking this very seriously. However, just as the previous government reasoned and as Jonas Gjörtler reasoned, it is important to take this in the right order so that it follows the rules that exist within the European Union, which is the basis for our having the order that we have in Sweden today.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-320	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Energy agrees with me that this is basically not a good solution. However, I do not share the view that Swedish power grids risked fines. You could have done that if you hadn't done anything. But, as I said, there were other options, and I think that if a different model had been chosen, it would have been possible to resolve this in a way that would not have created these large price differences. Hence the urgency of doing something right now. I am well aware that the previous government had the position that it was wise to await the extension of the South-West Link. It was based on the fact that we saw that the price differences initially were not at all very large. Then an assessment would be made as to whether more needed to be done. But I believe that all governments, whatever their party colours, need to be prepared to reconsider: if the situation in the world changes drastically, politics must also dare to change. Here we see decisive and important changes. We see that electricity prices are already pulling away and price differences are increasing. We see that nuclear reactors are about to be decommissioned in the near future. In a few years' time, the problem will be exacerbated by the fact that we have even less electricity generation in southern Sweden. We also know that the cable connecting to the Baltic States will cause more power to disappear from the country, and then price differences are likely to increase – even when the Southwest link is connected. My simple call to the Minister for Energy is: See the situation for what it is! Things have changed. It's different from what it was under the previous government. This makes it more urgent to act now than it has been in the past. I would like the Minister for Energy to go home and go over the proposals again and consider again whether it might not be appropriate to act as soon as possible.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-324	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Gjörtler, for a good discussion on an issue in which we really have the same position in principle! It is a question of long-term efforts to ensure that the country is a single price area and to act to remove the bottlenecks that exist in the system so that this can be realised. The big change today in relation to when the previous government sat is actually that electricity prices are significantly lower. Sweden is significantly larger net exporter of electricity. Certainly – provided no action is taken – we will see a greater difference. According to the Swedish Energy Market Authority, there will be an increase from an average of 1 øre per kilowatt hour to 1.7 øre per kilowatt hour. I can assure the honourable Member that I will follow this matter closely. This applies both to what happens on the market when the Southwest link comes into place – it has, as the honourable Member well knows, been somewhat delayed – and if further action is needed in the short term. In that case, I am no stranger to taking action. But let's do things in the right order. That is the position of this government, and that is the position of the government led by the Member's party.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-327	Mr President, I would like to Mr Erlandsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that eligible aid can be paid out as soon as possible and what measures for the future I intend to take to ensure that the application procedure and payments can be made with clear conditions and conditions in the future. Anders Forsberg has asked me what measures I will take to ensure that the 2015 EU payments are paid to the Swedish farmers as soon as possible and whether I will work for some kind of compensation for those farmers who are forced to wait unreasonablely long for their EU payments. Anders Forsberg has also asked me whether I intend to work to bring forward the payment of advances for direct payments and rural aid in accordance with the possibilities provided for by Article 75 of Regulation 1306/ 2013 of the European Parliament. Let me begin by saying that clear conditions for aid are very important for applications and payments to function as smoothly as possible without the risk of recovery and sanctions. What is also of great importance is that IT systems for the control and management of the new aid are in place so that payments are correct from the outset, which also minimises the risk of recovery and sanctions. For several years, Sweden has been able to pay out most of the farmers' aid already in December of the current year. Under the EU acquis, payment of the single payment can take place until 30 June of the following year, and for several environmental payments there is no deadline for payment of the 2015 aid. Thus, payments of the 2015 aid are made later than in previous years in Sweden but no later than what the EU rules require. There have been major reforms of agricultural, rural and fisheries policies that have been introduced at the same time. It has also been a lengthy negotiation process in which the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission would agree on the policy. Later in the process, Sweden also needed to answer 333 questions from the European Commission before the Swedish Rural Development Programme was approved. It is part of the Swedish Board of Agriculture's mission to pay out the subsidies as early as the EU acquis allows. 2015 was a special year when the Swedish Board of Agriculture's work on the new IT systems required for the new forms of support was delayed, partly due to late notification from the European Commission. Nevertheless, most of the single payment and environmental payments for grazing and grassland could be paid in December 2015. I expect that the situation of the aid introduced in 2015 will be clearer as early as during the 2016 support year. In addition, Sweden intends to start discussions with the European Commission and other Member States on possibilities and possible need for exemption rules to allow for advances on the 2016 single payment scheme based on the same principles as apply to the environmental compensation and compensatory aid. As regards the question of compensation to farmers because payments are not made at the same time as in previous years, there is no aid for such compensation to be paid, as payments are made within the time limits laid down in EU rules. The reforms have been comprehensive and the implementation of the policy is a major challenge for the relevant authorities. It is therefore important that we take advantage of the experience gained in recent years with a view to creating the best possible conditions for the next introduction of new support and rules in the Member States. An evaluation of the implementation of the new agricultural policy is therefore carried out in the framework of Sweden's preparations for future agricultural reforms. I would also like to emphasise that both the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Ministry of Industry are engaged in continuous discussions with the industry and other stakeholders in order to clarify the situation and see how support can be simplified. These discussions are important contributions to the work of the authorities. The Agriculture Commissioner's simplification initiative is also of great importance for a simpler and more cost-effective future agricultural policy. The government is very active in this work in order to bring about simplifications that are relevant to individual farmers. At the same time, it is important that future changes are implemented with good foresight, which helps to maintain the stability of the regulatory framework.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-337	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the response that I and my fellow interpellers have received to our interpellations to the Government. I and my party, the Center Party, believe that the government must now ensure that the conditions and conditions that apply and will apply in the future are clear and clear so that the entrepreneur, the farmer, can also plan for his business in the future. In addition, in order to facilitate the situation that is currently difficult for many entrepreneurs, we must look at the procedures of the authorities and organisations that have to deal with the payments of aid to which farmers are entitled and how things can be changed permanently or temporarily in order to facilitate the situation that is right now. I therefore think that the Government and the Government as a whole must turn over all the stones and look at all the proposals that exist or that can come to make it easier for the farmer in the situation that is right now. Then it is not enough to sit still in the boat as the Government, in my opinion, does and hopes that things will work out, but we must take active steps to get to grips with the situation that is right now. The Government must deliver information so that the farmer can plan for the coming year, for example, but also for a slightly longer period of time. The Government says in its answer:"I am counting on the situation of the aid introduced in 2015 to be clearer as early as the 2016 aid year. ..................................................... How does the Government intend to ensure that this is the case? I see no answer to that question in the answer that has come. The Government also says the following in its response: ..................................................... Of course, it is important to draw long-term lessons from what has happened about the payments of aid for 2015. But does the Minister intend to ensure that experience is drawn in dealing with what has been around the support for 2016? I also have another question that I would like to ask. Is the Government willing and prepared to look at, for example, the proposals that have been discussed and that are in the air? For example, we need to make a large part of the payment of aid and then carry out the checks that must and must be carried out afterwards. Finally, I would like to ask the following: what is the readiness of the Government to face the possible consequences of a ruling by the Supreme Court to credit agriculture with the EU subsidies that a farmer can expect?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-346	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your reply from the Minister for Rural Affairs. Swedish food production has great potential, and green industries employ an estimated 400 000 people in Sweden. The Swedish food industry has an export value equivalent to approximately SEK 70 billion, and it is also positive with a Swedish food strategy where competitiveness is recognised. We from the Swedish Democrats see that it is of the utmost importance that many of the proposals of the Competitiveness Investigation become a reality within the national food strategy. The stakes are high. If the crayfish for Swedish agriculture we have seen so far since EU entry runs the risk of leading to perhaps 20 000 lost jobs directly linked to the industry and perhaps another 20 000 – 25 000 lost jobs in industries linked to the green industries. We Swedish democrats believe that the basis for a viable and competitive agriculture is that Swedish farmers are allowed to operate on equal terms. Of course, ambitious rules on animal welfare and the environment are generally positive, but the current tax and regulatory system also obliges many farmers to cease their activities. This only leads to an increase in food imports with significantly worse animal welfare and environmental profile. Moreover, when many farmers are forced to wait up to a year and a half for their final payment of EU payments, the liquidity of farms is directly negatively affected, which in itself leads to further discouragement in an already hard-tested sector. Mr President, I would like to According to the Swedish Board of Agriculture's regulation letter for 2015, the Swedish Board of Agriculture must control management and control and monitor closely the development during the support year, in order to ensure that direct payments to agriculture and support for rural development are paid out as early as possible as the regulatory framework allows. The Authority will also examine the possibility of advance payments of aid under the EU acquis. One might ask whether the Minister considers that the Authority has complied with that instruction. The second question is: in what cases can individual entrepreneurs blame an IT system when they do not pay VAT or social security contributions to the state on time? If, for example, you as a farmer fail to submit an application for EU compensation on time, a percentage fee will immediately be deducted depending on the rate of delay, and you can even get rid of the entire subsidy from future reimbursements – whatever the reasons. When you, as a farmer, are forced to wait up to a year and a half for EU compensation and in many cases are forced to borrow in order to cope with liquidity, however, there are no equivalent measures. Does the Minister feel responsible for the poor management of the liquidity crisis that the state has actually put thousands of farmers in? Does he feel a responsibility for the transfer of capital costs to the individual Swedish farmer?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-353	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue that is very much under discussion among Swedish farmers. Only yesterday I attended an LRF meeting in Uddevalla, and I can understand the bitterness that exists and is very clear. In some ways, very high demands are placed on our Swedish farmers when it comes to applying for EU aid – you should be out on time, and it falls very quickly away if all the requirements are not met. When EU payments are not paid on time, as you think, it is clear that we can always say that they are not in breach of EU rules. In any case, however, I think that the Government's response should have turned the perspective a little bit. That is a very clear government perspective in the answer. It is clear that there are explanations; I am also aware of this by the fact that the IT systems have had difficulties and that control and handling are required in a good and legally secure way. It is not two things, but if you stand as a farmer in Sweden today and know that you are entitled to compensation, this is a very bad explanation. As mentioned earlier in the debate, there is hardly any other context in which we can say, unfortunately, we had an IT system that did not meet the requirements. In a company, that explanation for a salary payment would definitely go quite poorly. I've gotten myself something else. There was talk here of the environmental compensations and that they may be even later in the system. There will also be a problem around those who work with environmental compensation and compensation for public goods – it can concern pastures, mosaics and so on. There it has been promised that the aid will be paid in October 2016. The problem arises when payments begin to weave into each other. You just can't learn from the year before if there's been a mistake, you go on. You never get to tune it off when everything goes together. I do not know whether it is true or not, but we can see that in some places people receive the 2016 compensation before they receive the final payment for 2015. It will, of course, be completely impossible to control this. Although the Authority may have factual explanations – and I have no doubt at all that it may be doing its best to put the IT systems in order – it is, after all, individuals and entrepreneurs who have counted on this money. It is about seeing any long-termness in the conduct of such activities. You can think what you want about subsidies, but now we have the support we have. They are actually in the long term in the system. I therefore think that the Government can comment on this a little. I think what Eskil Erlandsson was thinking about when it comes to instalments is an idea. You can interfere with some kind of safety margin. If you pay out 75 per cent, you won't be able to make such a big mistake in the sky. The Government can also comment on this.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-359	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware that EU aid is very important for our farmers and especially for the dairy farmers in the particular situation in which they are in. It is important to be prepared to be able to pay out on time. It wasn't like that this time. In fact, I am pleased that the Center Party and Eskil Erlandsson have finally come to realise that it is a matter of being prepared for farmers to be able to get this out on time. It wasn't like that. When we took over on 3 October 2014, there were 333 outstanding questions. It wasn't well prepared. With regard to the issue of paying out as much as possible, I must nevertheless say that I think that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has worked extremely hard on this. 7 out of 9 billion has been paid out in December–7 out of 9. In the case of compensatory aid, which is 1.2 billion, 1 000 million will be paid out in March and 200 million in November. In the case of aid for conversion to organic production, 85% of the aid will be paid in March. The final payments for the greening and cattle payments will be made in June. So we have worked extremely intensively, and the principle has been to pay as much as possible to as many people as possible. In fact, it has been achieved. Already in December, 7 out of 9 billion has been spent. When it comes to not having IT systems that were adapted to the new agricultural policy – no, it was a completely new policy that made it necessary to redeploy all IT systems. We have given extra funding to the Swedish Board of Agriculture to work this out. There wasn't enough resources to work faster. They've done a huge job. With regard to the possibility that early payment for 2016 could be a compensation, some of the aid could be paid in October. I follow this and have a dialogue with the Board of Agriculture's Director-General on these issues, very often, so that they can manage to pay out the 2016 support earlier. Anders Forsberg talks about competitiveness, and that is a very important issue. An important part of competitiveness is to get started with the work on the national food strategy. It is a long-term element, but I will mention a few short-term things we have done to increase competitiveness. The EU went out with so-called national envelopes to the dairy farmers. Sweden financed 100 percent of the 152 million paid out for this. In the case of the diesel tax reduction, which the previous government reduced from 2.34 to 90 cents, we raise it to 1.70. It is therefore 900 million over a three-year period into agricultural and forestry activities. We set aside 150 million for hoof care, new money, and 10 million for counselling. We have doubled the export approval to the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency to 10 million annually in order to be able to enter new export markets. We have also permanentized the Agriculture Council in Beijing, which will work with export promotion measures in both China and Hong Kong. It's a cost of $3 million a year. And we have doubled methane gas aid to farmers to 60 million a year. So there are already a lot of things done on the competitiveness side. There are certainly more things to do, and many of them are also discussed in the debate on the national food strategy. The government has really acted quickly to get in place parts of what the Competitiveness Investigation addresses.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-369	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start my speech with two old expressions. One is that empty barrels rattle the most. The second is that when the arguments fail, you raise your voice. I do not think that in any way we received a response in the speech of the Government just now to one of the questions raised by this House. I would also like to point out that the Council of State and the Government are jointly responsible for the allocation of resources to the authorities which govern, for example, the payment of aid. I asked the question earlier: what is the government doing, and how does the government ensure that the Government's intentions about what is to happen will actually happen? Now that I have the chance, I would also like to add the question: When can a message come about whether or not what the Government is talking about becomes a reality? Or will it be like with the 500 million that we stood and discussed about a year ago as a loan opportunity, that is, that it will be nothing of the government's words? I would like to conclude by saying that there is an opportunity for the Government. And I assume that it was a reality that the 500 million were still there, because they are not used. Would it not be possible for the Government to look into the possibility of pre-financing the important support money for the country's agricultural entrepreneurs by means of the loan pledge that I assume the Government has received from the Minister for Finance? Isn't it worth investigating? Is it not worth doing something to make it easier for a large number of farmers in our country in the extremely serious situation they are in today?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-373	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I take note of the rural minister's ambitions for agriculture, and it is probably not a mistake that he has a will. Denmark has paid out 97% of its aid this year until yesterday, while Sweden has paid out 80 or perhaps 85 percent. There are other things to do. I also note the Minister's great ambitions for the 2016 management of the aid payments. But in view of the new LFA areas and several new forms of compensation, what suggests that the Minister's promise is actually fulfilled? I would also like to remind you that last summer, in a written question to the Minister, I highlighted the concerns that have now unfortunately come to light. Then the answer was that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is doing everything they can to carry out their mission. Was that enough? Obviously not. How, then, can the Minister strive to confirm that they will do so this year? Unfortunately, the rural minister's answer to the question of possible compensation, which can be read in the reply, is also misleading, because the Minister writes in his reply: What is interesting, however, is not if compensation is required, but if it is possible to provide compensation. I cannot see whether there are any obstacles to it being possible to do so voluntarily, but I think it should be possible to do so if it is done by domestic means. Everything is about priorities, keeping promises and providing stable economic conditions for Swedish agriculture. Well, now that the regulations and control systems are in place for the new aid, it should be possible to bring forward payments compared with 2015, when the major and late reforms were implemented. As has been mentioned in the reply, and as I mentioned in my interpellation, according to EU Regulation 1306/ 2013, Article 75, from 16 October onwards, EU Member States can pay an advance of 75% of rural aid and 50% of direct aid. The Minister mentions in his reply, but not in more concrete terms, how he wants to push forward in order to bring forward the payment of advances in accordance with the possibilities provided for by the EU regulation.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-381	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the measures that we Liberals thought could be reasonable when we started discussing the milk crisis last year. We did not agree that we should buy dairy products at European level. However, this was something that was in the picture, although in a wider context we might think that with EU support this is perhaps something that we need to phase out in the long term. The Minister here talks about short-term and long-term. It is clear that this is short-term, but for the individual, it may be a matter of survival and long-term benefits. As far as the food strategy is concerned, as the Minister mentions, we in the Liberals believe that it is extremely important that it should come forward. It was with a little surprise that when I asked the question here two weeks ago, I received the answer that it was postponed until June. It was nothing that I thought when I asked the question, so it was like a little news. That's not always the case. Sometimes you ask more or less rhetorical questions, but this was obviously a real question. We also think that the food strategy is important. But I don't think it belongs here, because it has a focus on competitiveness, consumer perspective, to take advantage of Swedish added value and to simplify the rules. It is in the longer term, but now it is about the payments that are current in 2015 and 2016. Large sums of money have been paid out, and the Swedish Board of Agriculture has certainly done a great deal of work. In the end, however, it is a question of individual farmers. If they do not receive compensation, their companies will be in trouble. That is really where the problem lies.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-386	Mr President, I would like to We can see that it is definitely not acceptable to have to wait so long for your money and your support money for agriculture. As has been said here several times before in this House, it is for the longest time to have to wait for your salary for one and a half years. Of course, the best thing would have been if you had done the right thing in the first place. It's always the easiest thing to do right from the start. If the programme had been submitted on time, if it had been well worked out and if it had not received back the 333 questions from the EU, which had to be answered, it would have been the best thing. It's not like that now. We've heard what it's all about before. This is because, among other things, the programme was submitted too late and you had not done your homework when you submitted it. What we are hearing now, for example, is that Eskil Erlandsson says that the Swedish Board of Agriculture needed more resources to solve this. Well, we've been running for a year with an alliance budget. The Alliance didn't have any more money for the Board of Agriculture. We now have this in the new budget, so that the Board of Agriculture gets the resources. The Swedish Board of Agriculture could not start working on the reform until you knew what the programme would look like. Until then, the aid scheme payments could not be started. What would they look like? So there are many to blame in this, one might think. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht now tells us that we will try to get the 2016 money out much earlier, at least in October. From what I understand, you do what you can. And according to what I can read to, it is quite possible to do so. I am absolutely convinced that we will be able to pay out the 2016 funds earlier. But, as I said, I do not think – and I know that the Minister for Rural Development does not think so either – that it is acceptable for you to wait so long for your money. The worst has been clear to those who are dairy farmers. The Swedish Board of Agriculture made a priority there. Priority was given to the dairy farmers first. And, as the Rural Minister also said, a lot of money was paid out as soon as possible to do this. But I agree that we cannot continue to have it this way. That is why the Minister for Rural Development and the Ministry of Industry have now called meetings for all the political parties. It is about starting work with CAP 2021 so that we do not end up in this situation again. I think that's very important.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-393	Mr President, I would like to Eskil Erlandsson thought I spoke loudly. At the same time, he says he didn't hear anything. I don't have the ability to speak louder than that. I'll repeat what I said. 7 out of 9 billion were paid out in December and early January. 1 billion of the compensatory aid was paid out in March. There will be some final payments in June and November. We will ensure that extra early payments of 2016 support are made. I am following this issue very closely at the Swedish Board of Agriculture and I am also having a dialogue with the Commissioners on the possibility of doing so. I also talked about competitiveness and the efforts made by the government to increase competitiveness. Among other things, it is a matter of restoring. Eskil Erlandsson and the previous government reduced the diesel tax reduction, which has a huge impact on agriculture. We'll raise it from 90 cents to 1.70. It's a $900 million cost in three years. I forgot to tell you something. Norrland aid, which has not been fully utilised since 1997 or 1998, has, I believe, also been fully compensated. We have gone in to make big investments in exports and more. That's about what I said. 500 million in credit guarantees are not liquid funds. It's credit guarantees. Among other things, the solvency rules that exist today did not make this an option. It was also dismissed by the industry and the banks. It's nothing to drive through. Anders Forsberg! Do the payments vary? Well, they vary. That's 28 countries. I would like to say this: of the 28 we are among the best. We are not in the best position, but there are many countries that have very big problems with this. We're in pretty good shape, but that's not good enough. This is why we will try to make extra early payments in 2016. Reimbursing interest payments and such things would be contrary to existing state aid rules. It is not something that we should put the country in, to make payments that are contrary to the state aid rules that exist. Then I turn to Lars Tysklind. I missed answering one of your questions that you had in your first post. Control results are communicated directly to farmers. What happens in October 2016 is that the effects of the deviations are calculated, i.e. the amount of deductions to be made depending on the size of the errors. Then there is the food strategy. Well, it's delayed for a couple of months. That's not good. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the Alliance Government delayed the national food strategy by many years. In fact, in this House, my party raised motions for several years in a row that we need to develop a national food strategy. It was rejected, rejected and rejected. But I am very pleased that all parties now recognise the importance of developing a national food strategy. It's so important that we don't mess it up. There we must have close dialogue between the parties, so that it does not become party political prestige again. A national food strategy is actually worth a collection in this country.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-402	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the debate, Minister. I assume that the Government will take the debate seriously and turn around all the stones that are to be turned around to resolve the extremely acute liquidity situation that many entrepreneurs find themselves in. It is, for example, a matter of seriously looking at the issue of making a larger instalment before these controls are completed. It is therefore an opportunity to solve an emergency situation for a great many entrepreneurs who are currently in existence. To that I would add, Mr President, that the Council of State was excellent at listing a great many things that have been done. Many of those things were carried out by the government of which I was a part. Other things the Government forgot to mention, such as the fact that he has been involved in double the youth worker's contribution on two occasions, which makes it more costly for entrepreneurs who have young people in their activities. There are many green companies that have young people in their activities. It is young people who also need and want jobs. In addition, I have not received an answer to my first question, namely how the Government intends to ensure that the advance of support that the Government talks a long and long time about becomes a reality and when such a message can come.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-405	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the Minister wants to speed up the 2016 payments, although today we do not know what it looks like and what it might look like because the Minister has not specified much more than that. I also note that the Minister is not prepared to compensate those farmers who are forced to wait excessively long for aid. I think we are quite clear about that in the premises today. I think that's a shame. I think it is more than reasonable that some sort of compensation could be reviewed in this case. Here in Parliament we politicians gathered, men and women with different backgrounds and different values. We are elected representatives of the Swedish people through our political parties. As elected representatives, it is our responsibility to work for what we believe is the best in the country on the basis of the handshake that we have received from our constituents when they have cast their vote on us. My handshake or the Swedish Democrats' handshake is about fighting for a sensible rural policy, which involves things like working for open and living landscapes, a viable Swedish agriculture and food security. Having said that, I must say that it is shameful how we treat our farmers in Sweden. Swedish farmers today compete with other European farmers but must comply with a regulatory framework with tougher animal legislation, tougher environmental legislation and higher taxes on diesel and labour, for example. Moreover, the fact that they have to wait up to a year and a half for their final payment of EU payments is hardly conducive to confidence in the future or better profitability. What is ultimately happening is that our farmers are closing down their activities and that the import of food from other countries with lower ambitions in terms of animal welfare and the environment is unfortunately increasing. This is not just naive. It's also extremely idiotic. But it is perhaps a natural result of the political failures in Sweden and ultimately a result of the fact that many important decisions today are rather governed by activists with little or no reality. Unfortunately, what we are now seeing is a Swedish countryside in dramatic change, with people of flesh and blood paying too high a price socially, mentally and economically.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-411	Mr President, I would like to I would say that if some people take this discussion and the peasants seriously, it is the Social Democrats, and I think we have shown that quite well. We have continued to work on the national forestry programme. We have started working on a food strategy that now all parties agree that we should have, which we are very happy about. As the Minister for Rural Development said earlier, it is clear that it could have been completed a number of years ago if it had been prepared to do so in the past. Surely it is not the case that this crisis arises precisely in September 2014 when a change of government takes place. This crisis and what it looks like for our farmers in Sweden started back in time. We will do everything in our power to try to facilitate and ensure that our farmers get sensible conditions and, of course, also look at competitive advantages and disadvantages for Sweden. But it is clear that we will never customs on animal welfare and such important issues. That's where we're rock hard. We want strong animal welfare in Sweden, and we believe that it is a competitive advantage for Sweden that we have it. As I said earlier, it is not acceptable for farmers to wait a year and a half for their wages. We can't have that. This is precisely why we have started working with CAP 2021, so that they will not suffer another year, and the 2016 support will also be paid out earlier. We are absolutely convinced that we will succeed.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-415	Mr President, I would like to Eskil Erlandsson wants me to turn all the stones around. Yes, I turn over all the stones, and I also hope that Eskil Erlandsson can be involved in turning stones around. Of course, we must do so within the framework of the common agricultural policy (CAP) regulatory framework. I know that Eskil Erlandsson, who is Minister Emeritus, had problems with the finances. But it is a little easier today, because today we actually have a finance minister who believes in Swedish production farming. We have received hundreds of millions in the budget to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture, and I have listed them earlier, both with a loud voice and a little lower voice. I hope that Mr Erlandsson has heard some of it, otherwise I am prepared to hand it over in writing. After all, it is also in the Minutes. To conclude, Mr President, I have great sympathy for the fact that farmers are having a difficult time when not all the subsidies are paid out. However, we should remember that 90% of farmers have been paid their farm payment in December, and most of the remaining part of the 2015 payments will be paid on an ongoing basis during the spring. On the other hand, some of the compensatory aid is paid 11 months later, i.e. in November. That's not good. All grants will be paid out as soon as possible, and 2016 is the ambition to make record-sized early payments. However, I would like to say that it is important to start planning an agricultural policy on time and not start late and careless, because then there will be problems. I do not want this to happen, and that is why we have already started the post-2020 review of agricultural policy.
i-FupDTYeA7MNJy8LLBdqgTt	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me the following questions: On the first question, the government will now begin to recruit an ordinary Director-General of the Food Administration. During the period until such time as it is in place, it is important that the Authority has a management that is adapted to be able to carry forward the extensive work in the area of food. In my opinion, a acting Director-General provides the best conditions for this to happen. The Government does not intend to make changes to the Swedish Food Administration's work, nor has it changed its mission, direction or working methods. The Swedish Food Safety Agency has an important mission, and the Government has continued to trust that the Authority will carry out its mission according to current instructions.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-422	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. I would like to start by saying that, of course, the government has the power of appointment here, and one can of course choose to change the Director-General if one wants to. That is exactly the part I do not really have any comments on. What I see as a little different in this is more about the process, how this has been done and the way in which it has been chosen to find a temporary solution until a new Director-General is in place. It is the case that there is a Deputy Director-General on the ground, here as in other authorities, who should normally be the one going into this situation. But instead of using that person, the government has chosen to recruit an acting Director-General from outside, in this case from Forum Syd. Then I have to ask the Minister: is it common to do this, that is to say, to pick up an acting Director-General from outside instead of using the Deputy Director-General who is in place? If so, what does the Government think is the purpose of having Deputy Directors-General at all if they are not to be used to replace a Director-General when, for some reason, he is no longer able to carry out or continue his duties? The Minister writes in his reply that the Government will now begin work on recruiting an ordinary Director General of the Swedish Food Administration. That's good. I think it's excellent. It is very important that an important authority such as the Swedish Food Safety Agency should receive as soon as possible a working order and clear and long-term management. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development: what will this recruitment process look like? Will this be done in an open procedure with the possibility for several people to apply? When does the Minister for Rural Affairs intend to appoint the post? Finally, I would like to ask what profile is being searched on this person.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-428	Madam President, I would like Before the Chamber was adjourned, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler raised a number of questions about the recruitment process regarding the new Director General of the Swedish Food Administration. I will try to answer the supplementary questions. The first question was whether the process will be open. My answer to that question is yes. Advertising will go public, and then follows an application procedure that is handled in the usual order by the Government Office. The second issue concerned the profile of the new Director-General. My answer to that question is that the requirement profile is drawn up at the Government Office in the usual way. It will also be anchored by stakeholders at the Government Office. The third question was when the Director-General will be appointed. My answer to that question is, of course, as soon as possible after the end of the process. However, we know that the recruitment of Directors-General can be delayed. We have experience of that. However, during that time the government has tried to ensure that there is a well-functioning management in place and that the agency continues to operate according to current instructions. I hope that Jonas Gjörtler has received answers to the questions in the interpellation and also to the supplementary questions.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. It sounds positive that it will be an open process and that the requirements profile will be developed in due course. All this sounds good. I take it that the appointment is not already clear, that is to say that the government has not decided in advance who is to be appointed, but that it is really an open process. I am delighted, and I thank you again for your answer. I asked a little earlier in my speech a question to which I did not get an answer. My question was that an acting Director-General should be picked up from outside rather than using the deputy. Does the Minister for Rural Affairs mean that it's common to do that? If so, what is the purpose of having a Deputy Director-General at all if he is not going to be used in such a situation? I wasn't going to say anything more about that part. It is of course important who leads our authorities. But another thing that is also important is the mission of the authority. Here, too, I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Development for a clear statement in his interpellation response, namely that the Government has not changed or intends to change the mission, direction or working methods of the Food Administration. It is important to stick to that line, I think. The changes that have taken place regarding the Food Administration's approach and working method towards the food industry in the form of more dialogue and an effort to work more constructively than before are important. There are a number of good examples of how it has worked well in recent times, such as the simplification trip to the food industry. The Swedish Food Administration, together with the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the Swedish Growth Agency, are working to better understand, simplify and improve the daily lives of entrepreneurs. The aim is to achieve growth, development and exports. It would therefore be unfortunate if the government were to find itself in a situation where a change of direction would mean that the agency would return to another regime of more rigorous government activism. We shouldn't have to end up there. I am very pleased that the Minister for Rural Development is therefore clear in his response. In particular, the work on the food strategy is usually highlighted by the government as important. Then it would be unfortunate if the Swedish Food Safety Agency suddenly changed its approach and in the end would counteract or in any case not contribute to or contribute constructively to increased growth and exports in the food industry. It's important. I understand that the Minister for Rural Development also thinks it is important. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs, for safety's sake, whether he is prepared to promise and in what way he is prepared to follow up and check that the mission, direction and way of working of the Food Safety Agency are indeed in the future.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-440	Madam President, I would like The Finnish Food Agency has many important assignments. One of the assignments that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler deals with is how to act towards the companies that exist in the area. The work on simplification with the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Agency for Growth is important. The government has no ambition to change the instructions in this area. The appointment of an acting Director-General has nothing to do with a change of mandate to the Authority. We'll be following up on the business. The Government continuously monitors the activities of the authorities. I feel safe with the external recruitment. It is a person who has eight years in office as head of department and is therefore well acquainted with the business. I am convinced that the temporary solution until there is an ordinary Director-General in place will be absolutely excellent. Thank you for the debate.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-444	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me if I believe that minks on the Swedish farms have the possibility of natural behaviour according to the Animal Welfare Act and if I intend to take any measures to ensure that the Swedish minks have the right to natural behaviour. Jens Holm has also asked me why the proposal for a new law on animal welfare is being delayed until the autumn. I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise once again that animal welfare is a very important issue for me and the Swedish Government. It goes without saying that animals should be treated well and protected against unnecessary suffering. It applies to all the animals we keep in our captivity. According to Section 4 of the Animal Welfare Act, animals must be kept and managed in a good animal environment and in such a way as to promote their health and enable them to behave naturally. Fur breeders as well as other keepers are obliged to comply with the Animal Welfare Act. The Animal Protection Act and the Animal Welfare Regulation contain horizontal provisions, while the details of maintenance and management are regulated in the Swedish Board of Agriculture's regulations. The task of the Swedish Board of Agriculture is to issue regulations on the basis of law and regulation. In 2010, the Swedish Board of Agriculture concluded that research has shown that there was a need to change the regulatory framework for keeping mink. At mid-2012, the Swedish Board of Agriculture's new regulations on mink keeping came into force. The new regulations, together with the industry's voluntary animal welfare programme, Mink Health, have led to a significant increase in the level of animal welfare in the mink industry in recent years. The government continues to protect good animal welfare for Swedish minks and to follow the issue with interest. Improving the conditions for fur animals is a priority for the government. The government will continue to follow the issue in order to ensure a high level of animal protection in connection with the preparation of the New Animal Welfare Act (SOU 2011:75). The animal welfare investigation submitted a comprehensive proposal for a new law on animal welfare to the previous government. The report of the study contains many interesting proposals, and we are now gradually going through, analysing and taking a position on the proposals. It is not possible to rush through such an important and comprehensive piece of legislation.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-449	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Rural Development for the answer to my interpellation. I think this is an important debate, because it is about the life of about 1 million minks living on some seventy fur farms in Sweden. We know that minks in the open move over very large surfaces, climb, hunt and can pull away in the shade if it is hot. They spend much of their time in water and are good swimmers. But on the fur farms in Sweden they can do nothing of what is their natural behaviour. They're trapped in small net cages, the size of an open evening newspaper. There are three minks a cage until the fall, when they are to be slaughtered for their fur. For example, they have no way of swimming. For the fur industry, this is a very lucrative business. Furskins are sold, mainly on export, for millions of dollars each year. But it's the minks who pay the price. Opinion against the fur industry is large in Sweden. A clear majority of the Swedish people, about 80 percent – more of the voters of the Social Democrats, may be added – want the fur industry to be banned. The Swedish Veterinary Association has repeatedly stated that the Swedish fur industry does not give minks the opportunity for natural behaviour. In this House, we from the Left Party put forward a concrete proposal that would have been the end of the fur industry in Sweden as we knew it, with concrete demands for the possibility of natural behaviour for minks. Unfortunately, however, it was voted down in this House about a year ago – also by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. In response to our motion on the fur industry, however, we received a response from the majority of this House. It was noted that within the government a new law is now being prepared. Such a change of law can provide for the natural needs of minks. That is what was said in the report that went through. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he intends to include more stringent demands on the fur industry in the framework of the new Animal Welfare Act. Will it then live up to what the majority of Parliament has put together? Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says that Swedish fur farms have improved. What has improved may be putting a plastic mug in a net cage. It may be that you lay out a golf ball so that the minks can snuck on and play with it. Another common example is putting a small branch of trees in the net cage. The fur industry says that this has served the minks'right to natural behaviour. But I would like to ask the Minister whether he thinks a plastic mug or a golf ball is enough to allow minks on the Swedish fur farms to behave naturally. If this is not the case, I expect the government to act and live up to the demand supported by a large majority of the Swedish people, namely that minks should have the right to natural behaviour.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-460	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has written an interpellation about the mink industry and the Swedish fur industry. The interpretation contains a number of assumptions, some pure errors, and some slippages that really do not deserve to be met with facts. He claims, among other things, that it is possible to compare domesticated farm minks with wild animals. In fact, that is not true, for over a hundred years of breeding, the wild mink from the United States or Canada has adapted to a completely different behavior. There are claims that minks cannot exercise their natural behavior. It can always be discussed, but there is a lot of research that shows that it is rather the opposite – that they can very well exercise their natural behavior. There are also claims that minks do not have access to swimming water. That too is something that is based on other parts. The question to consider is: What is a natural behavior, in general, according to Jens Holm? After all, domesticated animals have different needs from wild animals. That is something that I think you have to include in the way you look at livestock farming at all. Jens Holm has a background as Chairman of Animal Rights. How does Jens Holm view livestock farming at all – for meat, for fur and for milk? And what does Jens Holm think of the extra-parliamentary methods that exist? We recently had a case with the group that calls itself Tomma cages. That would be interesting to hear.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-466	Madam President, I would like Animal welfare is a priority for the government. We are following very closely what is happening in this area, regardless of the animals we are talking about. It is about strengthening and improving animal welfare. We are pushing these issues not only in Sweden but also at European level, where we know that there are shortcomings, no matter what species we are talking about. Good animal welfare is therefore a priority area. But a lot happened during the journey. The new legislation that has come, or the regulations that come through the Swedish Board of Agriculture, has been brought into line with science and proven experience. It turned out that there was a need to improve conditions for this particular species of animal, mink, which we are talking about here today. The regulations are an example of having followed this and made considerable improvements. These include ethage cages, a requirement that enriches the environment for animals, and better feeding procedures. The focus of the changes was to prevent stereotypical behaviour. The county boards' control apparatus shows that the shortcomings have been considerably reduced and that the minks have actually been much better off. The rules are also based on the Council of Europe Convention and are based on new research in this area. In addition to the controls carried out by the County Administrative Board, Minkhälsan, which was launched in 2010, carries out three to four veterinary checks and one visit per year. They also work with approved training courses for those who are supposed to care for these animals.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-471	Madam President, I would like I've never been chairman of Animal Rights, Anders Forsberg, so you're wrong. On the other hand, I worked in the Animal Law Journal and visited many fur farms, along with other animal breeding, and documented them. I met many representatives of the fur industry. I think there are major animal welfare problems on our fur farms in Sweden. However, that does not exclude that I can also have views on animal transport, on how broiler chickens are reared and so on. I think that the question of natural behaviour is absolutely crucial because it is stated in Section 4 that animals should have the right to natural behaviour. In the election movement, both environmentalists and social democrats spoke of fur animals having the right to natural behaviour and that the government should put forward demands that minks, for example, could withdraw, be able to get shade, be able to climb and get to swim. With these requirements, we would not be able to have a fur industry in Sweden, because, as in other countries, this industry becomes impossible when such functional requirements are imposed. And that's exactly the way we should go. The problem with the fur industry in Sweden was already identified in 2003 by the Pjur animal investigation, which targeted stinging criticisms of the fur farms, and as I said earlier, the Swedish Veterinary Association has found that the animals on the Swedish farms are not given the opportunity for natural behaviour. Let me take the question of being able to dive into water and swim. It makes a mink in the wild for much of its waking time. Minks have swimming skin between their toes and are good swimmers. New research indicates that minks are prepared to make an incredible effort to gain access to swimming water. This was why Germany recently made demands on its farms that the minks must have access to swimming water. This caused the large fur industries there to shut down. Since I did not receive an answer from the Minister, I ask again: does the Minister really think that another level in the cages, i.e. a so-called etage cage, a golf ball and a plastic mug is enough for animals to have natural behaviour? This is the big difference from 2012, when the new regulations came into force, i.e. very marginal differences. Otherwise, there are still small net cages where the animals are crammed in both cold and heat. They are simply bred in a way where they are not given the opportunity for natural behavior.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-479	Madam President, I would like I apologise for wrongly calling Jens Holm the Chairman of Animal Rights. According to researchers, if we were to do what Jens Holm wants and demand for example swimming water and large areas for farm mink, this would not significantly affect mink's well-being. On the other hand, it would in practice mean a nutritional ban on Sweden's mink farmers because it would be impracticable to raise mink under such conditions. But that, of course, is what Jens Holm is after. That would mean one more thing. If the mink industry, one of the livestock farms which, according to independent ethologists, actually meets the most criteria in terms of natural behaviour, were to be subject to a ban on nutrition, then, in consequence, the rearing of other species would also be at risk. It would not be long before such a discussion arose within the animal rights movement whose argument Jens Holm brings forward. It is therefore particularly important that all decisions and regulations are based on science and research results rather than on ideology and emotion.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-483	Madam President, I would like I have read and now heard Jens Holm's question and false claims about the Swedish fur industry with great interest. I have highlighted the parts of Jens Holm's various claims in the interpellation that are directly misleading. It was quite marked. Jens Holm compares, for example, the domesticated farm mink with wild animals. That's wrong. There is very large, not to say total, scientific agreement that the Swedish farm mink is domesticated. Madam President, I would like In my hand, I hold the Swedish Board of Agriculture's Animal Protection Manual from 1995. You don't have to look very long for it because it is available in many libraries in Sweden. This one was in the Library of Parliament. On p. 68, in the section, fur animals in general, it is stated that trapped wild minks or foxes must not be kept in cages for fur production, which is not done either. Furthermore, it says that the farm mink and fox since a large number of generations have been adapted to a life in a farm environment. This was written more than 20 years ago, and the farm mink has hardly been less adapted or domesticated since then. Should a bred mink be released into the wild, it often has little or no chance of survival at all. The next claim is that some countries in Europe have phased out their furry food. The fact is that in all the countries listed by Jens Holm production has been negligible. These are countries that have neither had a long history of furry food nor significant production, either in volume or quality. The next claim is that animals cannot exercise their natural behaviour. It's fake. In fact, mink's need for natural behavior is very much satisfied, not least in comparison with other domesticated animals. Madam President, I would like Farm mink spends 70 - 80 percent of its time in the den. This corresponds exactly to the time the wild mink spends in his nest. Farm miners are not inseminated but reproduce and give birth to their young naturally. Farm mink builds its own nest and nest with materials that correspond to what wild mink has access to. Farm mink climbs into etage cages. Furthermore, Jens Holm claims that farm minke suffers from not having access to swimming water. That's not true either. The notion that farm minks would suffer without access to large areas and swimming waters is entirely ideological. All existing scientific research shows that access to large areas and swimming waters are not innate behavioural needs of mink. In particular, there is no scientific evidence that it is an innate and natural need. In fact, it can be dangerous for minks with swimming water because they are sensitive to pneumonia. Bathing water connected to the den cannot guarantee their health and safety. The claim about stereotyped behavior is false. All Swedish farms have been controlled by ethologists for several years. They have noted in their reports that stereotypes are at such a low level that they are barely measurable. 98 per cent of Swedish farm miners are calm and harmonious, which is a very high figure internationally.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-493	Madam President, I would like All animals that we have in our care should be treated well and well. That also applies, of course, to mink. It is true that previous investigations have pointed to animal welfare problems in the Swedish mink industry. For example, it was stated in the 2003 report on the welfare of animals and the furry industry, and it was also mentioned in the 2011 New Animal Welfare Act. However, much has happened since then. The level has been significantly increased in these matters. Regulations have been tightened up, and the industry also has voluntary care programs. Jens Holm asked if I think there are enough etage cages and more. As a minister, I have to deal with what has happened, and the control authorities say that there has been a considerable improvement. This shows figures from the county councils' animal welfare control. The number of deficiencies found by county administrative boards during controls has decreased significantly, they say. It is worth noting that the results for mink do not stand out compared to other species controlled by the county administrative boards. There are no indicators of animal welfare problems in animal husbandry today. If there will be, I must, of course, act on this issue, but that is the situation today. A great deal has happened in recent years in the mink industry and in the keeping of minks.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-498	Madam President, I would like I think there are different ways animals handle stress. One could be inaction. They simply become apathetic and do nothing. If Peter Jeppsson thinks it's enough to roll in a golf ball or insert a plastic mug into these animals, which in the open moves over large areas, swims in water, climbs, hunts and in short exercises his natural behavior, it must stand for him. Perhaps it has something to do with Peter Jeppsson's own background in the Swedish fur industry as CEO of its association. I wonder whether Peter Jeppsson speaks for the Swedish fur industry, which earns tens of millions of crowns every year to raise and slaughter minks or whether he speaks for his own voters, where a clear majority wants to stop animal consumption. As I began with, I would like to know from the Minister whether tougher demands on the fur industry will be part of the proposal for a new animal welfare law, to be presented only in the autumn, not now in the spring as previously announced. I think that's important. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says that it has become mycket better at Swedish fur farm r. I would like to point out to him that, in any case, I know that according to the compilation of the County Administrative Board's controls, which was carried out in 2014, there were comments on just over 60% of farms. I don't know if it's so much to be proud of.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-503	Madam President, I would like I know the questions, Jens Holm. I've never hidden my background from anyone. The voters in Blekinge know my background as CEO. They also know that I have been rearing myself. If Jens Holm didn't know it before, he knows it now, Madam President. He'll be happy to spread it, because I don't have to hide it. I speak for my constituents. I think that the debate here today shows that Jens Holm's argument is populist and not factually based. In the past stereotyping was the problem, but when animals show no stereotyping, they are suddenly apathetic, which is also not good. There seem to be angles to everything in this matter. It did not take very long for me to check the claims written down in Jens Holm's interpellation. If we were to do what Jens Holm wants when it comes to swimming and bathing water, Madam President, that would mean a ban on nutrition for Sweden's mink farmers. In fact, it would have been more honest for Jens Holm to demand precisely this – a ban on fur farming – but he does not. Finally, I would like to mention the claim that 78% of the Swedish people want to close down the fur industry. The fact is that the Swedish people have no strong opinion at all on this issue. When Sifo asked the question a couple of years ago whether it should continue to be allowed to carry out mink mills in Sweden, the answer was yes from a majority of those who had an opinion. The same study asked whether a trade ban was important to them. Seven out of ten answered no. There is a great deal to be done in a discussion such as this, but it is therefore important that there are decisions based on science and research. I think the government is taking care of it. I look forward to possible further interpellations on this issue, and I promise to be in place in this House and continue to deliver the facts.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-509	Madam President, I would like As regards Jens Holm's question about the content of the Animal Welfare Act and what we will present to Parliament, I cannot answer what it will contain exactly. It is in preparation, and it is a large and extensive material. But one is certain: Animals should be protected from unnecessary suffering and disease. This is fundamental in Swedish animal welfare legislation. The responsibility for the animals always lies with the owners. It is the responsibility of the owners of animals to ensure that the animals they have taken into their care are properly managed and kept. I think we can nevertheless agree that Swedish animal care is very good compared to many other countries. That is probably because we have strong legislation. We also have a commitment in many of the industries where animals are kept, and they improve the care of the animals via their animal care programmes. The mink industry has Minkhälsan, which is a good example where you systematically work with these issues. Basically all farms are connected to the program. This means that it is not only the county administrative boards that carry out checks out on farms, but they are further checked by veterinarians from the Swedish Board of Agriculture three to four times a year. Then I and all the debaters know that fur farming involves many people. It can be a very hot question from time to time. But when it comes to mink, I will follow this. If there are reports that regulations are not being complied with or cannot be complied with, we must, of course, act, but that is not the case today. I thank Jens Holm for a good debate on an important issue.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-515	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me if I would like to reintroduce the Student Union Obligatory if the University Chancellor's Office would suggest it, if I believe that the best way to get students to get involved is through compulsory membership and if I intend to take any other measures to increase the student's influence, without forced accession. Let me first say that the influence of students at universities and higher education institutions is an urgent political issue. International attention is paid to students' ability to influence their studies as increasingly important for academia and society and to create committed and independent citizens of society. The ability of the Student Unions to carry out their activities changed fundamentally as the former bourgeois government pushed through the abolition of the Student Union Obligatory 2010 without providing good conditions for strong and independent student influence. There are now signs that the student unions' ability to exercise a strong and independent influence has weakened. Therefore, the Government has commissioned the University Chancellor's Office to map and analyse the conditions for student influence after the end of the Student Union Obligatory. It is gratifying that Boriana Åberg seems to safeguard student influence. I agree that voluntary membership of student unions has many positive effects. At the same time, I can only regret the fact that, despite several worrying reports from students as well as universities and colleges, Boriana Åberg does not seem to want to admit that the abolition of the corporobligatory may also have had negative consequences that need to be examined. For me, it is self-evident to follow up reforms, to see their effects and also to try to correct any shortcomings. The Student Union Obligatory was abolished without giving it good conditions for strong and independent student influence. Unfortunately, the then bourgeois government chose to ignore the consequences of, among other things, the then opposition parties in parliament warned against. I do not intend to reintroduce the requirement for compulsory membership of student unions. On the other hand, it is important that there are conditions for a strong and independent student influence that drives higher education institutions' quality development forward. I am prepared to take steps to ensure this.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-522	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his answer. First of all, I would like to point out that I am in favour of increased influence. The Minister says in the BorianaÅberg Then you can get the wrong idea. Let's iron it out. I care about student influence in colleges and universities. I think that student influence is important to ensure quality in education. A learning process is not just about being fed facts, it is about gathering knowledge by constantly questioning previous truths and seeking new ways. I dare to say that Swedish students are good at developing critical thinking when it comes to facts but also when it comes to how the teaching itself is conducted. At our universities and colleges there is a unique student influence, and we will continue to protect that. The reason I put this interpellation was an article in Upsala Nya Tidning. When I read it, I got the impression that the minister with nostalgia looked back at the time when the corps ligator existed. I would like to remind you of what the corporobligatory, which was abolished in July 2010, meant. It is something that not many of today's students have experienced, and it is easy to get the impression that it was something good if you listen to the Social Democrats, the Left Party or the Green Party, who were incited to the abolition. The Kårobligatoriet meant that all students at Swedish universities and colleges were forced to become members of a student union and pay a membership fee whether they wanted or not. Otherwise they could not exam or get their grades registered. There were better and worse corps. In the one I was a coercive member of, it was mostly spent at parties. Membership was perceived as particularly pointless by students with family and children, who needed the money better than to sponsor the fun of their younger peers. And that's not the worst part. The worst was the fundamental error of forcing people to join an organization. The idea of forced accession in a democratic society is offensive, I think. And what about the influence when the corporal ligatore existed? It was a shrewd spirit. All were members, but the commitment to the corps was low, and participation in the union council elections was minimal. There about 10 percent of the members participated – 10 percent! Can the Minister imagine the legitimacy of a government that has a maximum of 10% of voters behind it?
i-QHKo5nEvbDoGxsqeCrbZNk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg! I am very pleased that we agree that students are not only consumers of education but are very important co-stakeholders who – in addition to ensuring that the knowledge they absorb is critically questioned and is something that is created between students and teachers – during their education period should also be able to influence the quality of higher education, be able to raise it but also be able to say away if it does not meet the high standards that we have. I would like to make it clear that we were actually prepared to settle with the bourgeois government on the reform of abolishing the corps ligatori. But the problem was that at the very last minute the bourgeois government chose not to follow the recommendations contained in the report, including when it came to guaranteeing the independence of the student unions from the higher education institutions. Among other things, it was that they would have enough financial resources that they had outside the university. This has not happened, and just as we feared then, you became more dependent on the university and have to get money from there – from those you are going to review. It is also an important principle, in addition to what you mention about representation, which is one of the basic principles and which becomes problematic if you do not have enough members. It is precisely about the principle that you should be independent of the person with whom you should co-create, but also be able to examine and criticise. Since you do not seem to want to follow up on the reform and see what challenges there are after it, it would be interesting to hear why you do not see it as a problem that they have become more economically dependent on them that they are going to review.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-533	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it is tiring to hear, in interpellation debates, the ministers constantly evil themselves over decisions taken five or ten years ago by previous governments. Is it about the lack of own constructive answers and solutions to today's problems? In fact, I share the Minister's view that an investigation is a good thing. Of course, it is important to find out why some student unions believe that their conditions for strong student influence have changed or even deteriorated. I am sure I have not read as many reports as the Minister has. I'm sure I haven't made as many field trips. But I have done some, especially in my constituency. However, the studies that I have seen show that student influence still works, although there are long-term issues that need to be addressed. Not everything is perfect, but the doomsday prophecies have definitely not been fulfilled. I remember the debate on the abolition of the Student Union, where a then Minister colleague of Helene Hellmark Knutsson phased out the total dismantling of, among other things, the student's cultural life. The Lundaspex was under threat, the nations were to disappear, and the Lunda Carneval was to die after 2010. None of this happened. On the contrary, Lundakarnevalen 2014 had to take an example, more participants than ever, even though there was no corporobligatorium. Why? Because everything was driven by the enthusiasm of students, with thousands of unpaid hours of voluntary work, without anything like coercion or a collective connection. It is precisely the drive of the students, these adults, capable individuals, that we must take care of. Madam President, I would like The Minister concluded her reply by saying that she intends to take steps to ensure that there are conditions for independent student influence that drives higher education institutions' quality development forward. Although I understand that the Minister cannot anticipate the investigation here and now and make concrete proposals, it would be interesting to know what kind of measures the Government can envisage.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-541	Madam President, I would like I thank Boriana Åberg for this. With regard to the nostalgia charges, I would like to say that they actually started from the Member of Parliament when it was claimed that I longed back to a time that has fled. That is absolutely not what I am doing, but I am looking forward. Now this reform has been implemented, but not in the way we wanted it to. We also pointed that out in the House. We could have had a deal on this, but it did not happen because at the last minute they chose not to follow the investigation that had been set up by the bourgeois government. I am pleased, as I said, that we agree that student influence is important and that it is also strong. We have a very strong tradition at Swedish universities of student influence. It is something that I am both happy and very proud of, and it is something that we are often paid attention to internationally. However, these reports cannot be ignored. I don't think you need to read so many reports. But reports that we have read are from SUHF, the Swedish Association of Universities and Higher Education, and from SFS, Sweden's unified student unions, which show that there are shortcomings. Among other things, they point out that the average degree of student participation is about 45 per cent. This brings us to representativeness, and it is a very large variation, ranging from 10% to over 90%. Two thirds of the corps have had a worse economy, and three quarters of the corps have reduced the membership fee by an average of 35 percent. 50 to 60 per cent of the cost of education coverage by the corps is currently covered by the state grant. The rest must therefore be taken in another way. Among other things, this is done by the higher education institutions' support to the corps having tripled to 82 million SEK. Then we come to the question of what independence you have when you might want to criticise those who finance their own activities. 72 per cent of the corps believe that independence from the university has decreased, and 78 per cent of the unions find it difficult to recruit students to decision-making bodies. In the name of justice, it is to be said that they thought so even during the time of the corps. Yet, a third of them feel that it has become more difficult now. They also make a number of recommendations to us on what action we should take to improve this. But instead of following it, we have now given the assignment to the University Chancellor's Office to map this, so that we get a proper survey of what this looks like before deciding what possible measures we want to take. I think it is too early to say this before I have seen the full report. But in answer to Boriana Åberg's last question, it is not a reintroduction of the Student Union ligatory that I believe is the way forward, but it is precisely to ensure and strengthen independent student unions and hopefully also provide them with the conditions for having a very broad representativeness among students.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-548	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for that. I am pleased with the Minister's promise that she does not intend to re-introduce compulsory admission of students. It's a good news for everyone who likes freedom. As a moderate, I believe in the individual's ability to make his or her own choices and make changes, even when it is heavy and hostile. I also believe in the students' ability to take advantage of their best years at universities and colleges and have time for a solid education, student spex, parties and even training in how to exert influence. Influence is nothing that anyone gives to a person from above. The influence is worked up through commitment and knowledge and by contributing something unique and valuable, just like all the students who are involved in the voluntary corps do. I sincerely hope that the Minister will keep his promise. There are many promises that the Social Democrats have been forced to abandon and break recently. I therefore hope that this particular promise will be fulfilled.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-551	Madam President, I would like I believe that we share the belief in the power and strength of the individual, but also that voluntary organisation can certainly lead to a great deal of commitment. For me who belong to a peoples' movement party, it is given to believe in it. But it is also based on good and fair conditions. Unfortunately, when the bourgeois government carried out this reform and abolished the Student Union, it did not give the Student Unions just good and fair conditions. So there are signs that their freedom has become somewhat less, that is, their dependence has increased. There is no way in which any commitment can be overcome, but I, as a minister of state, need to ensure that these conditions are given which they did not get when the reform was introduced.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-552	Madam President, I would like Per Åsling has asked me what I intend to do to ensure legal certainty and predictability for contracting authorities when the 2014 EU procurement directive has a direct effect because the Swedish implementation of the directives has not been done in time. He has also asked how I intend to act to help municipalities, county councils and other authorities with guidelines before new rules for public procurement for Sweden entered into force. The implementation of the 2014 EU Procurement Directive is comprehensive and complex. The Government decided on 4 June 2015 on a Council of Law referral on implementation. The talk before the Swedish Law Council began before the summer and has been going on throughout the autumn. The Council's opinion is expected to be received shortly. Implementation has always been carried out with the aim of enabling the new legislation to enter into force in time. However, the legislative process is still ongoing and we can see that entry into force will be delayed. The further work will, of course, be carried out as a matter of urgency in order to ensure that the new laws can enter into force as soon as possible. I would like to point out that the current law on procurement applies, of course, until they are replaced by new laws. However, it is true that, after the expiry of the transposition deadline for the Directives, the provisions of the Directives may become applicable directly. Such direct effect requires that the rules are unconditional, clear and precise and that they confer rights on individuals. What provisions of the directives are to be considered as having direct effect will ultimately be a matter for the courts to decide. It is, of course, important that contracting authorities and entities should be able to obtain support and guidance in the situation that has arisen. In order to improve government procurement support, the Government decided to establish the Procurement Authority, which started operations on 1 September 2015. The Authority has the task of supporting, among other things, contracting authorities to contribute to the planning, implementation, follow-up and evaluation of procurements. The Authority therefore has an important role to play both before and in the context of the entry into force of the new legislation.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-556	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Shekarabi for his reply. Public procurement in Sweden is conducted annually for SEK 500 to 600 billion. That corresponds to almost a fifth of our bnp. With these figures, it is clear that Swedish public procurement is very important. In order to promote innovative solutions and take account of the environment and social and ethical issues, it is important to have a system in which work on public procurement can boost Sweden and promote the competitiveness of companies. In order to exploit competition and create the conditions for good business, it is important that contracting authorities carry out procurements in a way that enables all types of companies to submit tenders. Today, in fact, the larger the companies, the more often they participate in public procurement. There are also large differences between different industries and different counties. The second most common reason why companies do not participate in procurement is that it is complicated and takes a lot of time. Swedish small businesses are a very large part of all our companies, more than 95%, but they are small in terms of procurement – only 14% of Swedish small businesses have participated in the procurement process over the past 12 months. The work continues in the Government Office, and the Minister says in his reply that the presentation to the Law Council started before the summer. It has been a long process, and the legislative process is still ongoing. It would be interesting to have a comment on why the legislative process has taken so long. There is also a risk of legal uncertainty with regard to the situation we will find ourselves in the future. Shekarabi answers me, however, that it is right that, after the expiry of the transposition deadline for the directives, the provisions of the directives can become applicable directly. Such direct effect requires that the rules are unconditional, clear and precise and that they confer rights on individuals. What provisions of the directives are to be considered as having direct effect will ultimately be a matter for the courts to decide. ..................................................... I would like to supplement my questions by asking the Government what measures the Government will take to facilitate contracting authorities, municipalities and county councils etc. in a situation where Sweden's legislation is not in place. I also wonder what the further timetable is for the implementation of the directive.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-564	Madam President, I would like Thank you for allowing me to interfere in the debate this late evening hour on a Tuesday. I have a few questions and concerns I would like to send with the Minister. I think the Minister may be aware of them, but I would also like some feedback on how the Minister views this. In this investigation, there are suggestions that small companies that should be involved in perhaps applying for a procurement from government agencies or from municipalities and county councils should have a collective agreement-like condition. This should therefore be required in public procurement. The problem is that studies carried out by Sifo show that about 60% of small businesses – those with 1 to 49 employees – have neither collective agreements nor hang agreements. What is important to point out is that most of these companies are very serious. They are good and have good and good conditions of employment. If the proposals of this inquiry go through, this large group of entrepreneurs will find it difficult to stand up to competition in public procurement. It feels very serious. There are also further concerns that such requirements may lead to a reduction in competition, and this means that public procurement may be more expensive as fewer are able to participate. Although it is of course very important to have decent working conditions, we must not turn a blind eye to this problem either. I wonder how the Minister will take this into account.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-568	Madam President, I would like Procurement legislation is a law that affects many and important activities in the public sector. It also affects the conditions for suppliers, of course. It is therefore important that implementation is correct and balanced and that we have a well-designed regulatory framework. It will be a long-term regulatory framework affecting the public and private sectors. It is, of course, important that implementation takes place as soon as possible, but it must not be at the expense of the quality of the future legislation. It is ultimately a question of legal certainty and predictability for all parties who will be affected by the regulatory framework of public procurement. The Directives shall be implemented by 18 April 2016 at the latest, in accordance with EU law. This means a two-year implementation deadline. It is a relatively short deadline for such a comprehensive and complex legislative package with a number of complex and difficult-to-understand issues that require careful consideration. The deadline is a challenge not least for the Swedish legislative process with investigation, referral procedure and legislative review. Proposals for legislation for the implementation of the Directives were prepared by an investigation and in a departmental spromemoria which was prepared in parallel with the investigation. The results of these two investigations were referred to a wide range of stakeholders, and on the basis of the views of the 160 or so referrals, a legislative referral of over 1,200 pages and nearly 1,000 paragraphs have been produced. As mentioned above, the Government decided on the legislative referral in June 2015, and the presentation to the Swedish Law Council began. The talk has been going on since then, that is, for more than six months, and soon we will have the Council's opinion. For our part, the aim has been to enable the new laws to come into force in time. The fact that this is now not possible is a consequence of the time needed for the review of the law. We note that the review period has been very difficult to estimate. We must, of course, respect the fact that the review of the law takes the time it takes. However, we will continue to work with the utmost urgency to get the new legislation in place as soon as possible. Our intention is for the legislation to enter into force by 1 January 2017. As has been said, as regards information on the detailed application of the rules in the situation, it is primarily the Procurement Authority that is responsible for the information. It has the task of providing support both to contracting authorities and to suppliers, which is an important aspect. This applies, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises. In this context, it should be mentioned that the Procurement Authority has already drawn attention to the question of a possible direct effect in the event of a delay in the implementation of the Directives. The Authority has announced its intention to return with further information on the matter to the stakeholders concerned. As regards the issue of collective agreements, the government set up a special inquiry to look at it. This investigation is not affected by the legislative referral we are talking about now, but the investigation was tasked with developing a regulatory framework that requires us to impose conditions under collective agreements. So we should not make demands on companies to sign collective agreements or hang agreements, precisely so that we have fair conditions for our small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have collective agreements for various reasons. It is about ensuring good conditions for employees, not about forcing them to sign collective agreements. I think that is a principle on which we can agree.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-575	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its complementary answers. The fact that new rules in such a large and complex area as public procurement are dragging on is, of course, regrettable. I fully respect the fact that it is complicated and that it is extremely important for the rule of law that the job is done properly. However, this creates uncertainty for municipalities and county councils and also for the private sector in the form of companies. Today we already know that small companies participate in public procurement to a lesser extent than large companies, as I noted in my previous speech. One of the reasons is the difficulty for small businesses to familiarise themselves with the current regulatory framework, and the situation that is now emerging can further contribute to this fact. Rapid and major changes in this area, with little or no time to learn the new rules, are in danger of further aggravating these problems, especially for small businesses without large legal departments able to follow the process that is taking place now. I respect the fact that it will take some time to implement this in Swedish legislation, although I regret that this is the case. If the timetable is now that we can expect to have a new Swedish legislation on 1 January next year, what are the risks that we can impose sanctions from the EU because the regulatory framework – and the regulatory framework we have known for a few years – would be in place already on 18 April? And how great is the certainty that the new timetable, on 1 January, is holding? Can the Government guarantee that this will be the case?
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-578	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for allowing me to slip a little into this interpellation debate, even though the interpellations are similar. In any case, they fall within the same area of public procurement. The only thing I am concerned about is that there are different requirements for a smaller company and a larger company. For example, I read earlier that Stefan Löfven went out and said in the media that 10 000 new jobs would be created through social responsibility in public procurement. It is not a bad idea, but the problem is that it is easier for a larger company to do so than for a small company with one or two employees. I think the Minister will understand what I mean. What I am concerned about is that larger companies are favoured and smaller companies are disadvantaged, and the same is true of collective agreement-like conditions. Why I'm asking is that companies have contacted me, and I don't think this is quite clear. Many may not really understand and are concerned that they will be excluded from the possibility of participating in public procurement. I just want to make sure that small businesses have the same opportunities as larger companies to participate in this type of procurement.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-582	Madam President, I would like First, the small companies that are incredibly important for us to strengthen competition. In fact, if we look at the issue of social responsibility, for example, it is small local businesses that are taking the most responsibility today, I would say. There are very many small family-run companies that take social responsibility in the neighbourhood. And, of course, we should formulate social requirements in a way that does not discriminate against our small businesses. Therefore, the Government has commissioned the Procurement Authority to work with the Early Dialogue project, which aims to create a meeting place between contracting authorities and potential suppliers. It is above all a question of providing support to SMEs in order to have a constructive dialogue with contracting authorities. The aim is to ensure that the tender documents do not discriminate and exclude SMEs. I have very interesting experiences of this, not least from Härnösand Municipality and the County Council in Norrbotten County, which through dialogue and dialogue with small and medium-sized food companies has been able to strengthen competition and ensure that also the local actors have the opportunity to participate in public procurement. Yes, there is much confusion about the collective agreements. That is precisely why it is important for us to have good legislation in place – legislation that does not leave difficult questions of application to municipalities, but legislation that clearly states how to ensure that there are fair conditions in relation to public contracts, not least in relation to the procurement of services and works. We will ensure that the design does not discriminate against small and medium-sized enterprises. This is an important starting point in the work of the government. When it comes to EU law, Sweden, like other EU Member States, is in a position where the directives are to be implemented on time. Member States that fail to implement the Directives on time are in danger of an infringement case before the European Commission and an action before the European Court of Justice requesting fines in the form of a lump sum and/or penalty payment. It is therefore, of course, very important for this reason, too, that the directives be implemented in Swedish law as soon as possible. Our intention is to carry out the further legislative work as soon as possible, also in order to avoid any real costs in the form of fines. At this point, we are not in a position to continue the process. We have to wait for the opinion of the Law Council, and we have very great respect for the work of the Law Council. This is a demanding job. And we have the order we have in the Swedish Constitution, where the Law Council has the opportunity to review legislative proposals, and they will use the time required for the review to cover all aspects that apply to the legislation. At this point, I do not want to speculate on whether the other Member States will be delayed, if we put this into a wider European perspective, but I understand that the implementation time is a major challenge for many of the other Member States as well. At present, with barely three months to go until the end of the implementation period, only a few Member States have notified the Commission that they have adopted measures for the implementation of the Directives. We will work clearly on this. It will, of course, be a priority area for the government. And, of course, we must aim for this to enter into force by 1 January 2017.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-589	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answers I have received in this debate round. I would just like to stress further the need for this work to take place urgently and with great precision in order to create legal certainty and transparency for those concerned. It is important that the Riksdag is kept informed of how the work is progressing and of the timetable that the Government here highlights, which we both hope will be the case, in order to minimise the risk of Swedish sanctions from the EU Court of Justice. I would therefore like to thank you very much.
i-c982ae6a80caa1cf-593	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Per Åsling and Helena Lindahl for this constructive discussion. This is an important issue for us to be able to develop the public sector and also to increase the strategic use of public procurement. I would like to thank you for your commitment. With greater commitment, we can also ensure that we have an effective procurement policy in terms of how we spend all the billions we spend on public purchases. We will keep Parliament informed. It is, of course, my intention to inform Parliament of the continuation of the timetable. It is important that we have a dialogue there, so that the Riksdag has the information needed to prepare the parliamentary handling of the forthcoming legislative proposals. We will ensure that the Procurement Authority provides the necessary support to suppliers and contracting authorities until the entry into force of the new legislation, but above all also when we have the new legislation, so that we get a clarity in the application of the legislation that means that both suppliers and contracting authorities can feel safe and then also have the opportunity to focus on doing the right thing instead of focusing on not doing the wrong thing. That is the major challenge of procurement policy. Thank you very much for the discussion.
