i-010aad093d27bb5d-3	Madam President, I would like Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the spread of PFAS in drinking water and whether I intend to take any action or take any initiative within the framework of my government's remit to stop using fire foam containing these toxic chemicals. The government takes the spread of highly fluorinated substances, PFAS, very seriously in our environment. During 2011 – 2013 contaminated drinking water supplies were discovered in Tullinge, Kallinge and Uppsala. Extinguishing foam at fire drill sites has proved to be a significant source. We in the government have taken a concerted approach to this issue, and it is important to make an overall assessment of the risks and the need for action for the whole group of high-fluorinated substances. Madam President, I would like In January 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to develop a national action programme for high-fluorinated substances. The assignment is part of the Government's commitment to an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life and will be reported by July 2016. The mandate includes proposing regulation at national or EU level or other measures to reduce the risks associated with PFAS. The mission also includes working towards initiating an action plan within the EU. Furthermore, the Agency shall act as a driving force in the networks they have established together with a number of authorities and other actors and shall work to increase the knowledge base on PFAS. Madam President, I would like In June 2015, the Swedish Chemicals Agency presented an interim report of the mission which includes a survey of the presence and use of high-fluorinated substances and alternatives. The report shows, among other things, that the range of PFAS on the world market is much larger than expected and that new uses are under strong development. Based on current knowledge and measured levels in the environment, the Swedish Chemicals Agency points out that fire foam is the most problematic use and that emergency measures need to be taken in the form of rules and other measures. Madam President, I would like In a further interim report of the mission, the Swedish Chemicals Agency presented in January 2016 a proposal for national regulation for high-fluorinated substances in fire-extinguishing foam. In summary, they propose that PFAS fire-extinguishing foam should, as a general rule, only be allowed to be used when foam/extinguishing water can be collected and destroyed afterwards. The Agency has assessed that a comprehensive ban on all use of PFAS in fire-extinguishing foams cannot currently be implemented. A complete replacement to fluorine-free alternatives is estimated, according to the Swedish Chemicals Agency, to take a few more years. In order to accelerate the transition to fluorine-free fire foam, the Swedish Chemicals Agency proposes that the Government review and, as far as possible, remove these exemptions in 2019. The proposal is currently being referred. In October 2015, I commissioned former Director General Göran Enander to carry out an analysis of the reasons why the spread of high-fluorinated substances into drinking water has been possible for many years without being detected. A report was submitted in March 2016 which includes, inter alia, a mapping of the behaviour of licensing and regulatory authorities and relevant operators on issues related to the use of fire foam containing PFAS. This applies, for example, to airport managers, municipal rescue services and the Swedish Armed Forces. The investigator's proposal for action is currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Thank you, too, for the Minister's commitment to these issues, which are so very important! It is clear that there are many processes underway, and it will be very exciting to follow them from preparation to there being a powerful action and some form of legislative proposal that we can then take a position on. Maybe it's someone who's come in after lunch and sitting and watching and doesn't really have the background. I feel that this matter of PFAS is so important that I want to describe the background to the fact that it is such a big problem. PFAS are therefore substances that are widely used in impregnation agents. These substances have a water repellent capability and are also used in cleaning agents, window cleaners and all sorts of things. They spread further into the environment and are then found in humans and animals and in lakes and drinking water. These are substances with a great ability to accumulate in the body of both animals and humans, which in turn causes various toxic effects. Earlier and current use of fire foam is one of the most important reasons why we have local PFAS contamination in soil and water. It has been used on a large scale at airports, military facilities, industrial and municipal sites. These exercises have led to the release of fluorinated substances in groundwater and in surface water sources, which in some places have led to the shutdown of waterworks or wells and forcing water producers to install very expensive filter solutions. It is of course very regrettable that the defense is still using fire foam containing PFAS. Although I have, of course, respect for the fact that defence must always think in terms of safety, that there must be a planned transition and that it must be ensured that there is an effectiveness in the products used, it is regrettable that it is involved and contributes to the fact that we still get the PFAS into our groundwater. It is very good that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has proposed a national regulation for high-fluorinated substances in fire-extinguishing foams, and it will be exciting to see the continuation when this is now being referred to. Nevertheless, I think it would be desirable if the Minister could give a little clearer information on how to act more actively in order to phase out the PFAS and reduce the risk of pollution in our waters in terms of precisely the use in defence. I also put the question to the Minister for Defence, and it was pointed out that the development of new products is being followed. However, I would like to see perhaps a little more proactive in this work and have a plan for finding alternative methods for a good transition. I would also like to highlight the study which the Minister mentions last in his reply, where the causes of the spread of high-fluorinated substances to drinking water are investigated by Göran Enander. I think there are many good suggestions in that investigation that it is worth working on. The minister has already set up an investigation into finding an authority or a centre for substitution, and it is very positive that they have done so. Among other things, it highlights the issue of the organisation and coordination of environmental authorities, as it is an issue that has fallen between the chairs. This has also been highlighted in the Alliance's Environmental Authority's investigation, which was presented a year ago. It also notes that this is very problematic – it overlaps, and it is a confusion of authorities. The investigation is on the government table, and it would have been interesting to hear how the government thinks about the organization of the authorities. This applies to part s with bearings at the Mjömyndighetsutningen, and also what has emerged from Göran Enander's investigation.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-15	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your initial and committed participation in these issues. The fact that high-fluorinated substances have been released in water sources used for drinking water is the largest chemical accident Sweden has seen in recent years. There is still concern about point emissions and point sources here that we need to investigate further, not least when it comes to the fact that more operators who know that they have used high-fluorinated substances on industrial sites or in other activities ensure that these substances are not present in the environment and are at risk of being spread to water and drinking water sources. In this case, it has been a matter of municipal drinking water supplies, which is serious enough. Of course, the measurements should also be improved in order to detect this more quickly, but I personally also have concerns about all the individual wells that many people in our country take their drinking water from and from which we do not have the same rigid measurement series as on municipal water. I will, of course, answer Kristina Yngwe's questions. I share the commitment that we are now taking strong action to put an end to further proliferation as quickly as possible. Not least with regard to the most acute source, i.e. the fire foam containing PFAS, we need to ask these questions to the defence about the ongoing activities. In the case of civil protection, other methods have been found, which also ensures that the possibility of collecting the fire foam is ensured when practicing. It is on very few occasions in civil operations that you need to continue using PFAS foam in the acute environment, so to speak. On the side of the defense, of course, there is still a strong need to practice under the special circumstances of the defense. For example, you need to practice fire situations where an aircraft has been ignited and where you need to get the pilot out very quickly so that it does not become a fatal situation, and there is currently no alternative that the defense has seen. That is also why the Swedish Chemicals Agency's proposal for regulation takes the two steps, namely to introduce the general ban as soon as possible, but also to see that all uses are phased out in step number two. However, where there are not yet alternatives that are good enough, the defence must be able to continue to practice this situation as well. It is, as the honourable Member understands, important for the safety of the business. The Swedish Armed Forces' intention is to switch to fluorine-free fire foam as soon as there are alternatives. It is today a very limited practice with PFAS in fire foam; it takes place in only one, for the purpose arranged, place in Halmstad. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces are extremely committed to cleaning up the existing leaks from the defence airports in this, and they are very aware that it is not a future to continue spreading the PFAS in our environment and to our water. It's an authority that has to work extremely hard on clean-up and preventive work – and of course to find the alternatives that can handle even the most difficult situation. I am very pleased that we have come so far that we now have concrete proposals on the table and that after the consultation we can move forward. It's important.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. It is extremely important that the state authorities are always those who are at the forefront and are in fact those who work the most environmentally friendly. Of course, when it is the case that civil airports and civilians have been able to switch to other subjects, it is extremely important that the authorities follow very closely what is happening so that they can really change. It is clear that there is a huge interest in everyone that we reduce the presence of PFAS in our waters and phase it out of the fire foam. Now that we have the PFAS up for discussion, I was going to broaden this a little bit. This applies not only to fire foam, although it is where it is a major problem, but there are a lot of products around our society that contain high-fluorinated substances. I have mentioned impregnation agents, but it has also been shown that it is found in makeup, pizza boxes and in very many everyday things. It is even in food products – the Nordic Council of Ministers has carried out a study and found it in food products we eat. Of course, it comes out in our environment and in our neighbourhood, and it is very important to find ways to reduce the incidence of PFAS in consumer products as well. In his reply, the Minister mentions that the National Action Programme for High Fluorinated Substances will be developed at EU level. One should look at what can be done at EU level, and one important method is to look at how different high-fluorinated substances can be grouped and banned in groups. Now it is true that PFAS is a very broad group that includes about 3 000 different substances, I think. It is therefore difficult to pull everyone over and ban them, but they can be divided into sub-groups and banned gradually. This can phase it out at EU level and reduce the prevalence of consumer products. I would like to ask the Minister how the government is working to phase out or to get a ban in a group of different PFAS substances. What alliances have been created around Europe, and what are we doing to assess whether a ban at EU level can be implemented? Even if a ban is passed, it takes a long time to implement it. We will keep this in our consumer products for a long time, and that is why it is very important that the phasing out takes place differently. There, the defence fire foam is today an example of how to work, but it is also about other products in general. I wonder how the Minister and the Government are working on a voluntary basis to phase out PFAS in consumer products that are in store and in goods around us. We have discussed defence here today, and this applies not least to the products that are there. As I said earlier, I feel that the public has a great responsibility in actually being the leader in a transition. With regard to what is purchased in the public domain, there is also a great opportunity to influence. I therefore wonder whether the Minister has some kind of strategy with regard to the purchase of products, in order to avoid PFAS in the material used in state activities. It is not least about impregnation agents in the defence and how to work there.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-28	Madam President, I would like I am the first to emphasise the importance of working very focusedly and forcefully in combating the spread of high-fluorinated substances – in addition to the bans that already exist. One should be careful to say that for a number of years now there has been an international ban, including through Sweden's action, on PFO S. It was the first highly fluorinated chemical to be detected and found to be persistent, that is to say that it remains in the environment so extremely long that it poses great risks. It simply does not break down, but it spreads. It may be diluted, which may provide a slightly improved prognosis. There is a great deal of seriousness in this. I was just a few weeks ago down at Lund's academic hospital, which has a public health unit with a clinic where people today investigate and take in and have conversations with the affected people in Kallinge, i.e. the municipality in Blekinge where the population for a number of years – you still don't know exactly how many – had greatly elevated values of PFAS in drinking water. They are now taking measurements, and one looks at how this is slowly spreading into the environment also from humans. This is causing a lot of concern. What we in society can do is to ensure that we get our hands on the spread today. PFOS is, as I said, prohibited, but many more of the high-fluorinated substances must be banned. They must be banned in lumps, and that is exactly the entrance that the Parliament has decided on. This is also the entrance to Sweden when the issue is dealt with in the EU – that it is this group of subjects that needs to get much stricter rules. That's how we can work proactively on this. It is also about learning experiences and lessons. How could it have gone so wrong that in today's Sweden, in the 2010s, we get several municipal water springs switched off because of the detection of these high levels? It is quite right that the investigator of the accident, so to speak, has looked at the coordination of environmental authorities. Of course, a great deal of responsibility is also placed on the operators. It is they who have the basic responsibility. The fact that they do not know that they are spreading a substance or that it can spread in the water, which is then passed on, creates a major problem. The conclusions are primarily about strengthening the regulatory framework. That's what we're doing. We must work both at European and national level, but also look at how we can improve supervision. Several of the authorities have been aware of this but have not communicated with each other or have been sufficiently clear in their supervisory guidance. The study also points to the need to work on the non-toxic alternatives. We notice, as in the case of the fire foam, that when there are alternatives we can press with regulations so that it is the options used. But we need to find the alternatives. That is why the government has strongly committed itself to promoting non-toxic alternatives in public procurement. Today we make it easier for municipal purchasers, such as preschools. They simply get a catalogue that shows how they can procure with less chemicals and choose the non-toxic products. This is how public activity can show that it makes sense and uses tax money wisely. When we invest in the children, we will also make sure that they are non-toxic alternatives. At the same time, we strengthen the market so that actors, including Swedish innovative entrepreneurs and companies, can come out with their products. We don't have to use poisons. We need to get smarter and use the non-toxic in sustainable development.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-36	Madam President, I would like In many areas I can only agree. It is important to find ways to disseminate knowledge. We see that consumers and people around us do not know that PFAS exists in the environment or how it affects. I also share the Minister's view that there is a great responsibility on the part of practitioners. But it is also highlighted in the investigation that one sees a problem in that it is a bit of a mess of authorities and that the responsibility falls a little bit between the chairs. The Minister mentioned supervision. As I said, this is something that has been highlighted in the report. It's on the government table, but I haven't quite understood what's going to happen to it. The study proposes, for example, the establishment of some form of environmental inspection that brings together various permit and enforcement issues that concern environmental issues in order to take a holistic approach, gain an overview and create better synergies. This could benefit the work with PFAS in a good way. I'm a little curious if the Minister could elaborate on that. Otherwise, we look forward with excitement to the further work. We hope that you will continue to work on the high-fluorinated substances, because this is a very important issue.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-41	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kristina Yngwe, for the debate on an extremely important subject! I hope that we can come back to that – not only to the problems, but also to how we in society can take steps to solve problems and create a more toxic environment. I will answer in concrete terms the question of the investigation by the MMA. The proposals of the supervisory reinforcement will be used in the overall and broader supervisory investigation that is now being set up. There are many more questions in that part that need to be turned around; it was quite obvious from several suggestions that remained in the department when I took over. We are now adding the broader supervisory investigation that has long been in demand and is needed. In doing so, I think we will get a better map of how we can strengthen the enforcement work of the environmental authorities. There is also a great deal about the distribution between national, regional and local operators and the right information at all levels. It did not help the MIO investigation, which looked only at the central authorities. Making major reorganisations within the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency or the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate would hardly help the work forward at the moment because it is so urgent. It is important to work with the action plan so that Sweden is at the forefront. At the moment, we are pushing the other EU countries ahead of us to impose severe restrictions and rules on high-fluorinated substances as a group so that it does not stop banning PFOS or PFOA. We have moved on to look at the whole group and at more products. We see in the investigations and in this knowledge that PFAS is increasing in some products. That is why we need to work even more proactively, and we can really see how important politics is in this. We're not leaving the arena. Of course, consumers should be safe when making their product choices.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-45	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked the Minister of Finance whether the Government intends to reduce the impact tax in the next budget bill. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has also asked the Minister of Finance how an unchanged impact tax affects public finances. The interpretations have been handed over to me. The development of the energy system and the conditions for the security of electricity supply are issues that should be taken very seriously. I have said this several times in this House. The issue of the tax on thermal power and the future of nuclear power, together with a number of other issues, is linked to the type of energy system we are looking at in the coming decades. As Mrs Cecilie-Toftby knows, the government has appointed a Parliamentary Energy Commission. The aim of the Commission's work is to create the conditions for a broad political settlement that ensures Sweden's long-term electricity supply in a way that benefits both Swedish industry and Swedish households as well as the environment and climate. Here we have, as part of the Commission – both I and Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby – and our respective parties are doing a very important job ahead of us. The work of the Energy Commission takes a system perspective to ensure a sustainable and competitive energy system with secure supplies of energy. This work includes everything from reviewing the conditions for the individual power laws to analysing the design of the entire market. All the subsidies, taxes and rules related to the energy system, including the tax on thermal power, are under discussion within the framework of the Energy Commission. It is too early today to comment on the outcome of this debate. The government's forecasts of how the government's revenue and expenditure are expected to develop – including the revenue from the tax on thermal effect – are reported annually to the Riksdag in the spring economic bill and in the budget bill. It makes the overall assessment of the impact of tax policy on the economy.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-52	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Minister Baylan for his reply. Unfortunately, he did not answer all the questions. I am well aware that there is work going on within the Energy Commission. As the Government said, I myself am a member of the Commission. However, in its direct capacity to the Commission, it provides a basis for a broad agreement on energy policy with a particular focus on the conditions for electricity supply after 2025 – 2030. We are here and now, and here and now there are challenges that need to be resolved and questions that need answers. Parts of the electricity-producing industry live under heavy pressure of high taxes combined with historically low electricity prices. There is great concern about how necessary investments will be made. Especially serious is the situation of nuclear power, which combined with high taxes, which the government, in a desperate attempt to raise the public purse, chose to raise in 2015, and the low electricity prices, is now facing billion-class investments – investments in nuclear safety that need to be made in order for the six remaining reactors to continue to produce electricity after 2020. No exemption will be granted to those reactors that have not made these investments by the end of 2020. With high taxes and low electricity prices, the nuclear industry is obviously asking the question: are we going to make the necessary investments on the basis of current economic conditions? If the answer is no, at the end of 2020 Sweden risks losing 40% of its electricity supply compared to today's production. Part of my question was what the government intends to do with the impact tax in order to improve the economic conditions of electricity producers. That question is answered, as we have heard, by the fact that it is too early to speak today, despite the fact that industry will probably have to take the necessary investment decisions in the spring. Madam President, I would like The 100 million that Minister Baylan said earlier in this House that the increase in the tax on effect adds to the Treasury is a trifle compared to how the state finances are affected if the Swedish electricity-intensive industry chooses to invest elsewhere, how the weakening of Swedish competitiveness affects us and ultimately the loss of Swedish jobs and tax revenues. This, Madam President, will affect Sweden's ability to maintain the welfare that our citizens have every right to expect. That is why I am giving Minister Baylan the opportunity to answer the second question: how does an unchanged impact tax affect public finances? I do not mean this as the impact tax today, but I wonder how a loss of 40% of Swedish electricity production will affect Swedish finances. I assume that this impact study has been carried out by the government when it is now gambling with nuclear power and Sweden's future.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-60	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has an interesting approach here. She wants tax policy to be a decisive factor in the great challenge we have to face in terms of sustainable development and to have an energy policy that can live up to this concept. During the last few days, I have visited two energy companies in the southern part of Sweden, where they are just about to work towards sustainable development, and the energy sources made up of sun, wind, water and forest – which have great potential – are the ones that they want to invest in significantly in the future. It is for both economic and development reasons that this link is emphasised. Swedish competitiveness is based on sustainable business and the Nordic region and Sweden as a kind of green battery for Europe's sustainable development. It is questionable whether nuclear and energy tax policy has a decisive effect. We know that during the bourgeois term too taxes were increased in this area. I want us to have the opportunity for the Minister for Energy to focus here in Parliament on sustainable development and the opportunities that we have by linking Swedish energy policy with research, increased competitiveness and a sustainable society. How does the Minister for Energy view development opportunities in this area?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-64	Madam President, I would like I will try to answer Members' questions to the best of my ability. Let me start with a positive note and welcome this move by the Moderates in relation to the Swedish electricity-intensive industry. During the government years, the attitude that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby now expressed and which I welcome, namely that this has not only been important for Sweden historically but that the basic industry as well as the industry are important for Sweden in the future, both in terms of employment and export income. I welcome this and I welcome the fact that we can agree on it. After all, it is not too long since the then moderate leader and prime minister said that it was an activity that was a basicly gone. An important element for further development of this activity is, of course, a secure, secure and sustainable energy supply, and not least electricity supply. It is against this background that last year the government appointed this Energy Commission, which the Prime Minister already referred to in the Government Declaration. Although today we are in a favourable position with large surpluses of electricity and very low prices for consumers, it is easy to see that this very fact – that we have large surpluses and low prices – has led to less investment in the energy sector today. This applies not only to the important investments in nuclear energy, which Mrs Cecilie-Toftby is talking about, but also to investments in other types of power, as Mr Håkansson is talking about. Even hydropower has some profitability concerns at these levels. It is the same with wind power and with bioenergy, which is as large as hydro power and nuclear power together in our energy system, at least in kilowatt hours, even if it is mainly about heat. All of this we need to go through, and that is exactly what we are doing in the Energy Commission. I think it is important that we discuss both the issues raised by Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby and those raised by Per-Per-Arne Håkansson. What kind of systems are we looking at, and how can we have a gradual and smooth transition to a sustainable system that always delivers and does so at competitive prices? That's the challenge. There are no simple answers. Sometimes you hear: If you just screw with that treasure, it's done, or, if you just build it there, it's done! But it's not that simple. We have also seen this during the past autumn, when we at the Energy Commission have been on study visits abroad and also visited industries in the country. Now we sit together, all the parliamentary parties in the Energy Commission. We have talks, and these talks also include taxes, of course. But I think it is important that we do this in a context. I hope and believe that we will also do so together. If a policy message is to last longer than a term of office, it must be cross-blocked. I believe that this is necessary, because it is serious about the state of the Swedish energy supply. We will have to each one, in each direction, throw away one or other old cane horses and try to find common solutions, so that we can create long-term conditions for investments in the Swedish energy sector, so that the basic industry and other industries know what they have to relate to the long term.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-71	Madam President, I would like PerPer-Arne Håkansson's post on the green battery of the future is of course interesting and relevant. But my question today is about what happens to Swedish competitiveness and jobs and how it affects public finances as early as 2020. I understand, Madam President, that the Minister for Energy would like to make this a long-term energy debate within the framework of the Energy Commission. Now I'm a little more concrete and realistic. I am interested, Madam President, to know how Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson sees that public finances will be affected if nuclear reactors have to be shut down by 2020. The Red Green Government has previously announced that it wants Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. It has been intensely discussed how realistic this goal is. But perhaps it is good for the government to have said 2020 and not later, because if it is one thing that Sweden needs to secure jobs and growth, it is a stable access to secure electricity supply. If the power tax is not lowered, nuclear power is threatened, one of the three important legs of Swedish electricity generation. Madam President, I would like My question, which was originally addressed to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, is about how this ultimately affects Swedish competitiveness and public finances. It deserves an answer that it has not yet received. Swedish companies need nuclear power to be competitive. Decommissioned nuclear reactors will greatly affect Swedish competitiveness and growth. It is therefore also a threat to tax revenues and public finances and, in the long run, to our jointly funded welfare. Madam President, I have every respect for the fact that Minister Baylan is trying to give his view on the matter, but I find it very remarkable that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is not trying to come to this House to talk about this matter for Swedish business, for Swedish jobs and for Swedish public finances very important. I cannot help but be alarmed by the lack of concern shown by Minister Baylan. But I assume that he has in any case spoken to the Minister of Finance before he went on to answer questions, or not to answer questions, about the future finances of the state. Madam President, I was going to give Minister Baylan the opportunity to clarify this to the Swedish people. Is the information that you provide, which is in total lack of thought or reasoning about how it will affect public finances and Swedish jobs, anchored with Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson? Does this mean, Madam President, that the Swedish Minister for Finance does not see that a loss of 40% of Sweden's electricity production will affect the state's finances? New electricity generation will naturally emerge, but it will only be four years by 2020. How does Minister Ibrahim Baylan and Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson see that this will affect the possibility for Swedish companies to remain, the Swedish competitiveness and the Swedish jobs? I want an answer that is not just about long-term visions. I want an answer which can at least give the Swedish industry and industry a hope that the future is still bright and not turned off.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-79	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby's ambition, knowledge and experience regarding the energy policy situation for Sweden. However, I am somewhat concerned when the moderate representative so clearly focuses on an individual tax issue when the problem is of a completely different nature. There are also a number of economic aspects to highlighting nuclear energy in the future. There is great doubt among major international energy companies that they can economically, so to speak, recover a long-term nuclear effort within their own plans. There is probably every reason for us, based on these conditions and the experience that exists, to further emphasise the forces, natural resources and resources we have in Sweden that we can use to develop sustainable energy production in the future but also to strengthen our competitiveness in terms of innovation, exports and jobs. It is also linked to development and research. There are great values to take care of here. We need to emphasise these issues in the future. Then, of course, we should have a planning based on realism and on the conditions that prevail. I would like Baylan to develop this.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-82	Madam President, I would like The government appointed the Energy Commission precisely because we were concerned about the development of the energy sector. The whole energy arrangement of the previous government, which subsequently landed in a decision, assumed that what had now begun would happen, namely the closure of some of the older reactors. The plan was then that they would be replaced by new reactors in the same location. That's the deal. But it was an addition: that it should be done without subsidies, without direct or indirect support. The first part happens. However, very few people today estimate that the reactors will be replaced by new ones on a private basis. That is the very basis for this. Does this mean that we in the Energy Commission should also discuss how this is to be done? Yes, absolutely. Does that mean that we will be discussing taxes? Absolutely. This is an important part of our energy system. For such cross-block talks to be successful, it is important in my world that they take place in a spirit of trust and that they are conducted at a table. It is rarely the result of trying to negotiate in speaking chairs. It is part of the very concept of an interpellation debate that one has just a debate against the government. I myself have been in Parliament for eight years and know that it is about trying to be clear in my opposition. I respect that. It is an important part of our democratic model. But, Madam President, one can question the seriality of the honourable Member doing this on several occasions, despite the fact that we have an Energy Commission in which she herself is involved and despite the fact that I represent the whole government every time I stand on the national side. That's the formality. That's how it is. I cannot come here and have personal views – I think the honourable Member knows that too. Yet she has made a number of attempts to put this question to everything from the Minister for Education at Question Time to the Minister for Finance in this case. I think it is important both for industry – I agree with the honourable Member that it is very important for Sweden and should be developed – and for the energy sector that we are now closing the battle axes. It is about using the opportunity that we now have in the talks that are going on in the Energy Commission to find solutions. Yes, it is also about the challenges facing nuclear power. We have a great deal of trouble today. It is that investment in any form of energy production is currently not profitable. This applies to nuclear energy, hydroelectric power, wind power and bioenergy. It's not an urgent problem. But just as Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby himself brings up, we can get into very big trouble if it goes on for too long. That's not where we're going. The government's goal with this work, preferably with the opposition, is to find solutions so that we can at all times guarantee our households and our electricity-intensive industries electricity at competitive prices. And it should be as sustainable as possible. That is the very goal of the work. I remain optimistic and believe that when we are faced with a very serious situation, we should actually find solutions to each other and ensure that we come up with solutions to these challenges both in the short term and in the long term. I think it would be a huge force for our country if we were to succeed in doing this. If, on the other hand, we do not succeed, there will continue to be political uncertainty on top of a rather high market risk in the energy sector today. I think that would be to the detriment of our country. My focus is on continuing discussions and finding solutions to both the challenges we face in the short term and the long-term challenges.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-92	Madam President, I would like An individual tax issue, says Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, who thinks it is too narrow. Some may think so, but the state's tax base is a particularly important tax issue, not a narrow tax issue. I do not know if Mr Håkansson has read my interpellation, but my question is clear: how does the closure of all nuclear reactors affect state finances? In fact, it is a simple question, which I put to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and which I, Madam President, did not intend to put to Minister of Energy Ibrahim Baylan, precisely because those considerations are not part of his area of competence. We are used, Madam President, to questions that are asked sometimes getting fuzzy answers. Unfortunately, today we have witnessed it again. I can only say that, with regard to the government and the question of how public finances are affected if 40% of our electricity generation is lost by 2020, there are no individual reactors that we risk losing. We risk losing everyone if we and the nuclear producers do not make the necessary investments. It does not seem that the government has even begun to think about the answer to how public finances will be affected. As I said, the responsibility of the Minister for Energy is limited. It is therefore, I have to say again, very remarkable that Magdalena Andersson does not show greater responsibility. As Fredrik Reinfeldt once said: If you are not prepared, you are unprepared. The Red Green Government is extremely unprepared for what may happen in four years' time. The Red Green Government is therefore a threat to Sweden's competitiveness, companies, jobs, welfare and public finances.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-97	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Cecilie-Toftby for important questions about something very urgent, namely the country's energy supply. I can assure the honourable Member that we are as prepared as we can be. We are so well prepared that we have even set up a Parliamentary Energy Commission to address these issues. We did this precisely because we were concerned about the development of energy supply. Although there are many good things in the deal made by the previous government, we could see that the probability of someone building new nuclear reactors to replace the old ones, which is an important part of the deal, would not be on market grounds. I'm a little surprised by the tone. If you really have a serious desire to find solutions – I think that is actually there with the Moderates – you sit down at a table and reason. If you want to raise taxes on impact, you do so, and then you try to find compromises that will enable us to get a good development of the Swedish energy system. That's how you do it. The interest in trying to find shortcomings in the government is an important part of being in opposition, and I have full respect for that. As I said, I've been there for eight years. In this situation, it may be important to get the Minister for Education or the Minister for Finance to discuss something that is reasonably known to have to be discussed within the framework of the Energy Commission because it is an important part. What would be the consequence if one, the other or the third were to happen is a hypothetical question. Our forecasts are based on the decisions that exist. They are presented to Parliament twice a year, and that will also be the case in these matters. I think it is important for us at this point to do our utmost together to find each other. I understand that it is important for the opposition to try to find fault with the government – it is part of the mission itself – but let us instead try to find solutions together.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-103	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me how I will work in Sweden and in the EU context to protect the interests of the Swedish arms owners while ensuring that the Swedish arms owners will not have any reason to doubt the government's position in this regard. The government has been consistent and clear in its approach to the EU weapons directive. As soon as the Commission presented its proposal in November 2015, the government welcomed it while we expressed our doubts about certain individual elements. In the light of the serious terrorist attacks of recent years involving firearms, it is important that the EU acquis on firearms be reviewed. The government considered, and still believes, that it is important, among other things, to strengthen control over the most dangerous weapons. The proposal was referred back in December 2015. On 2 February, a discussion was held with the Committee on Justice, in which the Government received unanimous support for its position. On the day following, 3 February 2016, the Government presented six concrete text proposals to the Presidency and the Commission, namely: (1) safe storage of weapons; (2) derogations from the 18-year limit for possession; (3) exceptions to medical examinations; (4) derogations from the ban on fully automatic weapons; (5) derogations from the five-year time limit for authorisation; and (6) clarification of what is meant by semi-automatic weapons similar to fully automatic ones. Overall, Sweden has an offensive and clear position for the further negotiations, which gives us a strong negotiating position. In this way, the government takes the best advantage of Swedish individual and general interests.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In particular, I should like to thank you for such a clear answer to this question. I think that's very good. The reason for the interpellation is actually that we have a person who is an environmental party down in the European Parliament and who runs a different line there than the official line that Sweden has on the new arms directive. This environmental party, called Bodil Valero, has made its own proposals down there to try to tighten up the line and make it even clearer when it comes to accessing the weapons currently used by shooters and hunters. The aim is to introduce mental tests and psychological and physical tests on those who should be able to hold a weapon. For this reason, I would like to make sure that the Swedish position that we agree on here in Parliament remains firm on the clarity that we want in the arms directive. In fact, these very pieces have been removed from the proposals that came earlier. I therefore thank the Minister for the clarity of his reply that the position is firm. On the other hand, Madam President, I would like to point out the importance of having, if you are in a position of government and have representatives who are responsible for government in Sweden, a dialogue with their other Members and that, for the sake of clarity, you do not have Members who run a position that goes against what the Swedish Parliament, in this case, thinks about the arms directive. There is a danger of being very unclear to the European Parliament if you have a dual message from the same party. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: will the Minister clarify this further in any way towards his government partner, the Environment Party, in the further work, and will it be accepted that individual Members run two lines in the same party? Of course you can do that, but for the sake of clarity: Is it something that the Minister sees as a problem, or is it all right? How does the Minister view the work in general – is it going in Sweden's direction, or does it seem to turn in some other direction? It would be good to have a progress report now that we have the Minister here for the time being.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-113	Madam President, I would like First of all: In the Riksdag, the government responds to interpellations about the government's position. If we want to discuss European Parliaments, church councils, municipal councils or other parliamentary bodies, it is perfectly possible to run for office and ask questions there. Is it a problem, asks Sten Bergheden, that one party has several different positions? No, I think it's just normal. We have seen in recent days that the former Prime Minister of Moderates Fredrik Reinfeldt has strongly criticized the current moderate line for being heartless, while the former Minister of Culture in the Government goes out criticizing the moderate government for being too soft and criticising it so harshly that the current party leader says: She could not have been a minister in my government. Sten Bergheden probably has a lot to think about in his own party when it comes to keeping a unified line. In the government, we agree. In Parliament, we are united. That is what is important for Sweden's position. I set out the six demands that we have put forward unanimously. I would like to say that the negotiating situation is good. We had a round at the last Council meeting, and I have great confidence that we will get through significant parts of what is the negotiating position of the Swedish Government and Parliament. I would also like to say in this context that I am very pleased that we have managed to gather Sweden's hunters behind this position. It is central for Sweden, when we run issues in international forums, that we can agree across party boundaries and interests, so that we stand united when we push people's movement views and the nation's views. That makes us much stronger. Then I think it is up to everyone to make their views known in the various cases.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I do not believe that the comparison made by the Minister is entirely relevant on this issue. Of course, there are different views among Members and others in different parties – that is obvious. The important thing in this matter is that it is a government party in Sweden that has representatives who run double lines. That's the problem. There may be a tremendous lack of clarity. What the Minister is referring to are opposition parties that may have different views. But when you're in a government, you should have a single position. I think that the Minister has made it clear, and I also think that I can breathe a clear message that the environmental partners in the European Parliament are trying to bring forward have no support from either the Minister or the Swedish Government, which is extremely good. I also think it was useful to have this clarification in view of the writings and other things that have occurred on this issue that a particular party can have two different positions and pursue two such different issues from one side on the same issue. I also thank you for the information that the work is progressing. I think it is a good thing, and I hope that we can work well together on these issues, so that we can highlight these positions and get them through to the full and, above all, that we do not back up our positions but stick to them all the way to goals. Thank you so much.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-124	Madam President, I would like We do not need to talk about the disunity of former ministers. Let us talk about the European Parliament! How many times, Sten Bergheden, did moderate MEPs go against the moderate government's line? And how many times did Sten Bergheden go out and criticize it? I can tell you that moderate MEPs were at the top – had a medal seat – during the moderate reign to go against the positions of their own government. How many times did Sten Bergheden criticize that? I know zero times.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I think it is as the Minister says, that there are differences of opinion on certain issues. But in this situation, when we from the Swedish Parliament have been so clear, it is extremely unfortunate when a representative at that level goes out and has a completely different position and runs a completely different policy – contrary to what the government and parliament have actually decided on. It creates a lack of clarity for both shooters and hunters in this country. It creates a lack of clarity with regard to the European Parliament as to the line taken by the various parties. I think it is good that the Minister has made it clear that the government does not care what this environmental party has said in the European Parliament but stands by the position that applies here in the Swedish Parliament. I think that is a good thing, because at this point it is absolutely right to do so. Thank you, Minister.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-129	Madam President, I would like I could say I was right. Although the Moderates are the ones who have most opposed their own government, Sten Bergheden has never criticized it – never. But now is the time. That's not good enough, Sten! We have a very clear line. We're in agreement in the government. We agree in Parliament. We agree with the hunters. Only by standing together in these groups will we be able to run Sweden's intr ase and keep the hunters harmless a.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-131	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell has asked what the government's calculation looks like to calculate the cost of abolishing the distant parentheses. Furthermore, Johan Forssell wonders what information has been taken into account and when this calculation was made. Johan Forssell also wonders how the government's calculation has been affected by the information that we can now see in the report from the Swedish Financial Control Agency. One of the government's messages for the 2014 elections was the abolition of the longer deadline – sick people should not be insured just because they have been sick for a certain time. The longer deadline has created uncertainty and uncertainty that rhymes badly with the characteristics of which I want health insurance to be characterised. So this promise has now been fulfilled. Since the expiry of the 2010 deadline, people have been secured on some 110 000 occasions. About 70% of these people have been women. Persons have thus been forced to leave the sickness benefit both two and three times. The Government has made clear in connection with the 2016 budget proposal that the removal of the time limit increases the expenses of the sickness allowance allowance allowance allowance. The very idea is that people should continue to receive sickness benefit instead of being insured. In this context, it can be pointed out that the Government's cost assessment was well in line with the assessment made by the expert authority responsible for the projections in the field of health insurance, namely Försäkringskassan. At the same time, labour market policy costs will be reduced, as no more people will start ALI and instead receive activity support. In connection with an article in Dagens Industri on 28 January, the Swedish Financial Control Agency gave its assessment of the impact of the reform on the tax loss. I will now explain, as I have done on previous occasions in this House, why the data in the budget bill are not at all comparable to the calculations made by the Institute of Economic Affairs and the ESV. It is about content, methodology, visibility and what you report. First of all, the assessment by the authorities is based on assumptions as to how labour supply, employment, potential GDP and finally the public-financial balance are affected in the long term. It is a completely different approach from the financial statement in terms of expenditure that characterises the budget proposal. However, the Economic Institute's assessment included not only the abolition of the lower time limit, but also the increased compensation of income-related sickness and activity benefits, and, as KI writes, the assumption that the Social Insurance Agency is increasingly examining the right to compensation at the fixed time limits in the rehabilitation chain. Another characteristic that distinguishes the two assessments is that the Konjunkturinstitutet reports long-term impact, which should not be compared to the relatively short-term nature of a budget proposal – four years. The Bankruptcy Institute's assessment is thus completely different from the government's assessment in the budget bill. This is clear from the economic situation in June 2015, when the Economic Institute explains this. Note that this is a comparison with the Conjunkturinstitutet's assessment – for any such report that Johan Forssell refers to from ESV does not exist. The ESV has thus only spoken out in the article in Dagens Industri, never dealt with the issue in any report. It is a strength for Sweden that we have several independent bodies that make socio-economic assessments. As a minister, I shall have neither comments nor comments on the assessments made by the ESV in this context, but can only conclude that they are not comparable with the expenditure declared in the budget bill and that the government's assessments, as I have said, were very well in line with those of the Social Insurance Office later on. I can also note that the Moderates in their 2016 budget exercise had the same assessment as the government on the issue of the costs of the longer time limit in health insurance. Expenditure on health insurance has increased sharply since 2010, and breaking the increase in sick leave is one of the government's most important challenges. The government has therefore launched a comprehensive programme of measures that I have outlined in the past. The Government continues to closely monitor the development of health insurance expenditure and will report its continued assessment in the spring financial proposal at the latest. If sick leave continues to increase, the Government intends to return with further measures.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-142	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its detailed answer. I have written this interpellation in the light of the fact that the development of health insurance is going in the wrong direction. We have had many debates on this subject. We see how the problems are growing and how, unfortunately, the government, I mean, does very little to reverse this development. Much of what is being done is more likely to exacerbate the problems. I'll give you a little background on this. The fact that the government has chosen to abolish the longer deadline has been highly criticised by the government's own authorities in particular. I am thinking, for example, of the Social Security Inspection, the Social Insurance Agency and the Employment Service. They have all warned that sick leave will increase as a result of the policy implemented by the government. There are several problems with this. One is, of course, the camera aspect. More people who are sick means that fewer people can participate in the work. This will mean increased costs for the state. Most serious, however, is the human effect, that people will not be able to go to their jobs or study, but instead become ill absent. Many of us have, in recent memory, the problems that existed during the previous parliamentary term, before the 2006 elections. Then these problems ran away. Finally, they were chosen to try to solve them, if you could say so, by early retirement. However, the Government has chosen to allocate a number of SEK 100 million for the abolition of the deadline. What has then happened is that the Swedish Financial Control Agency has recently gone out and warned, you have to say, in Dagens Industri that the actual cost will be very much higher. The reason for this is that such changes have an impact on labour supply. Fewer people will work, and more will end up in sick leave. And it has effects, perhaps not year one or perhaps year two. But in the long term, the cost will be significantly higher than the government has budgeted. This is not a small sum, Madam President. According to ESV, the tax loss, i.e. the tax revenue that could have come into the state and that we could have put on the core of welfare or on improving for entrepreneurship in order to get more jobs, SEK 2 billion. This is a development that the ESV warned of in its November forecast of the state budget and public finances. Other reforms, such as raising the ceiling in the unemployment fund, abolishing the reduction in social security contributions for young people and removing the lower limit in health insurance, are, on the other hand, expected to have a negative impact on employment. ..................................................... I find it a little strange that when this criticism comes, the government will beat it away. The government says you shouldn't have any views on this. It is very strange because this is not just any issue, but it is about the state budget and our common resources and how they are to be used. The ESV is an expert authority, and it is their task to provide forecasts, to nail hazard calculations and provide input so that we can all do better work. I think that this criticism actually deserves to be taken a little more seriously than the government simply saying that one should not comment on this. If the Minister for Social Security thinks that the ESV is wrong, I would like to know where in these calculations they are wrong.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-153	Madam President, I would like We have tried the other policy of reducing health insurance and of having a distant parenthesis, a so-called precipice. We saw the results. All these insured people had their lives broken, and they did not get healthier because they were thrown out of insurance. We could also see at the end of the previous government period that sick leave increased again, despite all the deterioration and cuts in health insurance. So we could see that it was a double failure, both that people continued to be sick and needed sick leave and that life became even worse for those who were thrown out of insurance. They became both sick and poor. The costs of removing the precipice, or the distant parentheses, must also be weighed against the costs of permanent exclusion for those who are insured. There is no evidence to suggest that they have quickly come to work and become healthier – quite the opposite. They become dependent on relatives for their livelihoods or may seek support for their livelihoods. It can be seen that the more people who receive support, the further away from the labour market they get. If you really want people to work, it is important to keep them in health insurance and also in unemployment insurance. The cost of this is therefore not so relevant in the context of looking at the enormous costs of permanent exclusion for these people when we had the distant parentheses. These sick people were forced into ALI, work life introduction. The authorities knew that many of these people could not do this. They were simply too sick. But the regulations were as they were, and people were forced to go there to get any compensation at all. It is, of course, a human suffering that we are now hopefully spared with changed rules. But it is also a question of costs. And at that end you can save, just as Annika Strandhäll says. But not everything is about the crowns and the ear, but we must also talk about human values and human suffering. This is something that has hit not only the affected people but also their entire families, not least many children who have been affected by it. This is reason enough to do something about the problem. There are also good arguments for helping people instead of throwing them out of insurance. It works better. We keep them in health insurance with the obvious goal of getting healthy and getting to work. That's the purpose of everything. But each case is individual, and it should be assessed by a doctor. It is also a doctor who assesses whether you have the right to be on sick leave or not. There's no change today. If, according to the doctor, you do not have the right to be on sick leave, you must not be on sick leave either. However, this question concerns cases where there is a longer, severe sick leave. Among other things, work-related diseases are definitely related to the working environment. There, the government does a great deal of work to improve the working environment. I believe that shortcomings in the working environment are the most important reason for the increase in sick leave. Much can be done there. Then there is the question of how health care works. There the government has invested to ensure that you get well as quickly as possible and come back. We must be aware that not everyone is coming back, but we will help everyone as far as possible. No one who is ill should be sentenced to poverty.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-163	Madam President, I would like You can start with, Johan Forssell, to reflect on the fact that during the last four years of your reign, sickness rates increased by over 50 percent. Johan Forssell knows as well as I do that the insurance policies that you were engaged in were to a large extent a game of statistics. You insured people out of health insurance. Speaking of listening to expert authorities, Arbetsförmedlingen expressed that the people who were insured and who came to Arbetsförmedlingen to go to ALI in many cases were too sick or too worried about their finances to be able to absorb the efforts. It made those days a karensen. After a little tampering with the statistics, they came in again as a new alert illness in the insurance. That's what you were doing. That's not what I call dealing with. This government has set a clear target for where we are going to reach and where the sickness rates are going to be by 2020. We have developed a broad package of measures in seven different areas, with 25 different action points targeted at insurance funds, coordination associations, health care and employers. I have come here from having just been in talks with the social partners on the issues. To say that we do not take the issue seriously is to play with the words. To reverse the trend with the increasing sickness rates is one of the most prioritised issues for me and one of the top-priority issues for the government. Let me be clear on this point, Johan Forssell, that if anyone was playing with statistics, it was the bourgeois government. We are trying to make a real difference in the questions. Johan Forssell is well aware, as well as I do, that the government is following the accounting conventions in the budget. As Johan Forssell knows, the budget presents an overall assessment of the impact of government policies on potential bnp and employment. Our reforms in the budget and their financing are assessed together as leading to a slightly higher potential GDP and higher potential employment and a lower equilibrium unemployment in the future. We are clear that it does not make sense to make assessments of long-term effects on employment and bnp of individual reforms, but we do so together. The assessments made by the Government regarding the costs of removing the time limit are also shared by Försäkringskassan, which is our expert authority. It is also an assessment shared by the Moderates themselves. Here's what you wrote in your own budget exercise: The Moderates say no to tear up the longer time limit in health insurance. This is estimated to strengthen public finances by approximately SEK 300 million per year.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-171	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the Government reads in the Moderate Budget Movements. She'd be happy to do that more often. There is actually a lot of wisdom there to catch up, perhaps not least on how to reverse the development of health insurance. There seems to be a need for new ideas because the development is not actually going in the right direction. Progress is going the wrong way. With the forecasts presented by the government itself, developments seem to continue to go in the wrong direction for a long time to come. You can have different attitudes toward politics. Mine is that one should try to learn from history, and one should also try to be pragmatic. When new information comes, don't turn a deaf ear. If the information is factual, you should take the impression of it and if it is justified actually try to change. Hillevi Larsson talks a lot about the previous developments. I would just like to point out one thing, namely that Hillevi Larsson was sitting in Parliament himself when the former Social Democratic Government dealt with the area. We have a fresh memory of how it went. Early retirements were the answer. 140 people each day were left, hidden and forgotten in a long distance. I think that Hillevi Larsson should be a little more humble when she talks about human suffering and think about how she herself has been involved in dealing with the issues before. We in the Moderates agreed with the government's assessment when we made our budget last autumn, but we also said that we are concerned that this will have more long-term effects. These effects, Madam President, will find their way into the government's budget, either in higher spending or in lower tax revenues. It's a little strange that you have the short-term camera approach, that you make a budget in your own way and if someone does it in some other way or not as you do, you don't take it into account or even comment on it. Surely the Minister for Social Security also realises that if tax revenue is reduced as a result of a reform, it will actually be a cost to the reform. If you budget appropriations A, B or C – call it what you want – is not so important in this context, but it still results from that reform. Abolishing the time limit is a reform that the government pursues in violation of the expertise of its own authorities. It can't be ignored. I have read the referrals from Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen, the Inspection of Social Security, which everyone warns about this. TCO also raises the warning flag, as it was said, against implementing the reform. ESO recently held a seminar in which scepticism was also expressed. Professor Mårten Palme has made it clear that he believes it is important to have a shorter time limit in health insurance. That name may sound familiar to many Social Democrats. There is broad criticism of what the government is currently doing in this area. You can make different assessments and you may think differently, but if you are in a government position, it is reasonable that when you send out questions for referral that you also take into account the answers you receive. What is the point of sending out questions for referrals if you are not prepared to listen anyway? I wish the government had a slightly more pragmatic approach and made sure to listen to the facts from scientists, authorities and experts. Right now, progress is going the wrong way in this area, and it is moving quickly in the wrong direction.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-179	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by going back a long way with the previous Social Democratic Government. There's research into what happened then. What the research briefly concluded was that the main problem was that the workplaces were not sufficiently adapted to the needs of those on sick leave. The number of sick leavers did not really grow; it was the same number of sick leave. But it became longer sick leave because the important step with adapted workplace in order to be able to come back unfortunately fell. Employers simply did not do what they were supposed to do. There are now clear demands on employers, not least in the proposed occupational health and safety strategy, which applies to both physical and mental work environment, because many sick leave are now based on mental diagnoses. We look carefully at the research results that come and, of course, at the policies we have pursued in the past. But I think there is also reason for the Moderates to be self-critical in view of the results of the previous two terms of office. As far as health insurance is concerned, we have talked about the costs, and I think that the costs if you do not help people are much greater than if you help them. We have also talked about the human suffering that it means to be covered. One thing I would also like to highlight is the principle that when you are ill and unable to make a living, you should receive help and compensation. The reason for this is that the people who receive it have given up their wages during their working lives, sometimes under 40 years of working life. Shouldn't you get something back? It rhymes very badly with the principle of justice. I think that's a double reason for actually getting help when you're sick and also getting help to get back to work.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-184	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell talks very often about these referrals, and in many of them it was said that it would be unfortunate if the time limit was removed without taking any action. Johan Forssell knows that the government has taken a number of measures to reverse developments after the referrals gave their answers. These are measures aimed at health care, insurance funds, employers and coordination associations, and we will present more measures to reverse developments. The difference, Johan Forssell, between your policy and our policy is that we are trying to turn this development really, that is to say, support people back to health and work again, and that is not when people have fallen through the more distant time limit in health insurance, but it is done early in a case of illness. That's where you broke pretty good. In fact, during your last four years of government, you not only managed to secure 100 000, but you also managed to sit and watch without taking any action while sickness rates rose by 50 percent, Johan Forssell. You waited for people to be covered. In terms of listening to evaluations and taking part in research in this area, the follow-ups that have been made show that a very small proportion of the persons insured returned to the labour market. I would say that this measure was a complete failure. What the government is now trying to do is to turn the development around in real terms where it can and must be turned around, namely by building a more health-promoting working life where support and help can be provided and by designing workplaces that stimulate healthy employees and that make a good contribution to the development of both companies and society. I think you should be a little careful about how to express yourself. It is our absolute ambition to reverse this development, Johan Forssell. We are standing in this House debating time and again the removal of the longer deadline. You often say that the government does not take any action, and at some point I have stood here and read out what measures the government is taking to reverse developments. Then comes the next interpellation and then we stand and discuss the removal of the longer deadline again. I would like to say that, in these matters, it is Johan Forssell and the Moderates who represent an idealessness. But I would really appreciate a constructive discussion with the Moderates about their proposals to help reverse developments, because it can't just be throwing people out of health insurance. Of course, costs will go down, but no problem will be solved.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-193	Madam President, I would like I think the Minister for Social Security misunderstands me a little. I've never said that the government is not taking action. The problem is that you are taking more measures. What this whole interpellation debate is about, and several others that we have had in the past, is that you are doing things that will have the wrong effect. That is the very basis for us standing here on so many occasions. I would also like to say to Hillevi Larsson that if you evaluate what the Alliance did, perhaps you should also mention that sickness absence as a whole actually decreased during the time of the Alliance in power. It is also something that the Government returns to. But she chooses, Madam President, a minor period of government and does not see the whole picture. The fact is that sickness absence decreased during the time of the Alliance in power. There are many of us who will continue to evaluate how this government is doing. I'm worried the government is losing control of sick leave. Progress is moving very quickly in the wrong direction. The government's own authorities warn against implementing the reforms the government is presenting. And the criticism that is coming – as this debate has shown – is being waved away very lightly. What Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan, The Inspection of Social Security and now also ESV think is wrong. No, we're running our race here. I ask myself: when will the government start listening to its own experts and researchers? For it cannot be the case, Madam President, that the Minister for Social Security is satisfied with developments so far during his term of office? We are actually seeing an increase in sick leave and are expected to increase very quickly in the coming years. It's time the government reconsidered.
i-ETawdfCcoK7XsxmVT8Yag8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the debate! Johan Forssell says that these are the wrong measures. A clear objective is that sick leave over time should be low and stable in a country like Sweden. A measure that I know the Moderates have at least previously considered important and good, the government has now implemented. We strengthen Försäkringskassan's treatment at the early deadlines in the rehabilitation chain. We are doing this because it is necessary, because the tests at the early deadlines in health insurance fell drastically during Ulf Kristersson's time as Minister of Social Security, while at the same time securing 100 000 people. It may not sound so bad, but to individuals it meant that the work capacity was not tested after 90 and 180 days, that they fell through health insurance and did not have access to the measures needed to get back to the labour market. The government has now taken action against this and strengthened the Social Insurance Fund's resources and possibilities to make these trials, and they are now doing so to a much greater extent than they did during the bourgeois period. So it's going in the right direction, Johan Forssell. We are now slowly implementing our package of measures in dialogue with the social partners and in dialogue with our responsible authorities. And just as I said in my previous post, the referral criticism that you choose to call it, the observatory that was targeted, was actually about whether the government would not take any action. We've done that. We will reverse this trend and take all the measures necessary to do so.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-202	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me if the government will take measures to ensure that the wolf tribe can be managed in a sustainable way, so that decisions on protection and licence hunting can be implemented within the time limit. Sten Bergheden also wants to know when the government intends to implement these measures. Daniel Bäckström has asked me how and when I intend to ensure that final decisions can be implemented before the intended license hunting period expires. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me how I and the government reasoned when they chose to go against Parliament's announcements to the government and whether I and the government intend to ensure that the urgent demand for administrative courts that has been mentioned will become a reality. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler also wants to know how I will act if the urgency requirement is not met. I would like to thank the three interpellants for raising these important issues. As the three amendments deal in part with the same question, I am answering them in a context. The Government strives for a sustainable and effective predator management where hunting decisions are taken with good foresight. It is important that the species of game belonging to the country's wild game population are preserved. The Government decided on 25 February 2016 to amend the hunting regulation, which means that the County Administrative Board's decision to hunt for the large predators bear, wolf, wolverine, lynx and kungsörn can be appealed to the General Administrative Court. It was also decided on an urgent requirement for cases of hunting for the large predators. It is important that the appeal process is streamlined so that decisions can be taken well in advance of the start of the hunt. In order to further improve the efficiency of the processing process, the review of the County Administrative Board's hunting decision is considered at a administrative court. The Government's decision to change the order of order follows the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of December 2015 that the hunting of wolves and other species protected by the Species and Habitats Directive should be subject to judicial review. It is the Government's ambition to bring order to predator management and create the conditions for informed hunting decisions. That is why last year the government laid down a number of missions to gain a deeper understanding of the wolf and how it should best be managed. During this year, the government will actively continue to work towards more sustainable predator management.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-209	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. In particular, I thank the Minister for taking the time to come here today and to answer the interpellation that I asked almost two months ago. It is good that the Minister has given priority to this interpellation. First of all, let me make it clear that the wolf is not endangered. There are about 200,000 wolves all over the world. Wolf is largely hunted around the world to keep it at a reasonable level and to reduce damage to domestic and wild animals. In the rest of Europe there is not the wolf discussion that exists in Sweden. It is quite natural to hunt wolves for the sake of having and peace of domestication. In Sweden, however, the Green Party governs this issue in the government, and there is more protection for the wolf than for rural people and domestication. When I recently visited Värmland, we talked a great deal about rural areas, rural development and increased food production. One of the questions that constantly returned was the question of the wolf. A sheep farmer told me he lost half his sheep last year. Rives get low dead and scared to death all over the pasture. This creates a lack of pregnancy and a great concern both among peoples and animals in rural areas. People in rural areas lose money and stop their animal production. Coming home and watching their animals lie grated and dead in the pasture and realizing that the whole livestock farming is in ruins creates a concern that I think the Minister may not quite understand. Madam President, I would like It is obvious, however, that the Minister has not managed to reassure these people in the countryside. In fact, the Minister has ultimate responsibility for wolf policy, regulation and rural development, which is now hampered by a too large wolf tribe in Sweden. Madam President, I would like In 2013, over 400 sheep were torn in the country and about 40 dogs. In addition, some other animals were affected by wolf attacks. I think it is perfectly reasonable to have the right to put down the wolf that attacks domestic animals and other animals. This is what is done in the rest of Europe and the world. But the Minister for Rural Development now makes it possible to appeal against both the protection hunt and the licence hunt. Thus the wolf can quietly eat up the tambo while the legal mills in Sweden grind and the government sit still and watch. Madam President, I would like We have decided that Sweden will have a wolf tribe that is 170 – 270 wolves. Today we probably have nearly 600 wolves, that is, almost three times as much wolf as the Riksdag has recommended. I would like answers from the Minister to three simple questions: Is it true that all the people I meet in the countryside say that it is the Green Party that controls the wolf issue in the government? Will the Minister resume the discussion with the EU about breaking up the Species and Habitats Directive and moving the wolf from red-listed animals in car. 4 to car. Five? Are we going to have a wolf hunt next season?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-225	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for the answer to my question. The wolf question is a long sequel. The latest tours, which make it urgent to re-open a discussion on this issue, are linked to the decision taken by the government at the end of February. In one stroke they chose to tear up the order decided by the Riksdag and which the Riksdag has also made clear announcements to the Government on a couple of occasions. The last time this happened was last autumn when the alliance parties took a committee initiative to ensure that the government would pursue the intentions behind the predatory policy decided by the Riksdag in 2013. The background to this, of course, is that it is urgent for all of us to ensure that we have a predator policy and predator management that takes into account both the wolf's conservation status and important socio-economic aspects such as people's fear and people's desire to live, operate and keep animals throughout the country. Having taken note of the rural minister's reply, I still wonder how the government intends to take account of these socio-economic effects. What should you do to face people's fears and concerns about their own domesticity? How to build acceptance for the wolf's presence? I believe that the only way to build acceptance for the wolf's presence is to ensure that we have functioning predator management. This is something that the Riksdag has previously decided on but that the government now chooses to tear up. In the reply, the Minister for Rural Development addresses the decision taken by the Government on 25 February 2016. One thing that is raised there and which could be positive is a requirement of urgency. The Minister states that there is an urgent requirement for cases of hunting for the large predators. One question you ask yourself is: What does that mean? What is an urgent requirement? Does this mean that there will be a response within a week, two weeks, one month, two months or six months? How long does this mean that a case is dealt with promptly? All the people in the country who have tamboship in areas where wolves exist want a reply and an answer to that question. Another question you ask yourself is based on the government's statement that you want to gather the information on appeals to an administrative court. I think that's basically good. It's wise to do that. But how will the Administrative Court be able to deal with this? Is the government sending with any resources? When will this be specified? The rural minister's reply merely states that consideration is being given to placing the examination in an administrative court. When will a concrete answer be given to this question? Finally, I would like to say that this is a major problem throughout the country. We hear very often about problems in parts of the country like Värmland and Dalarna where you have lived with the problem for a long time. But if we look at what it looks like right now, it's a problem that's spreading. The wolves are in more parts of our country. Most of the attacks last year took place in Stockholm County. That's what happens if you don't have order in the administration. I would like to hear the Minister develop his answers to those questions.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-234	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer, Minister for Rural Affairs. We are once again gathered in this House to reflect and debate on this extremely important area of predatory policy, the presence of the wolf and the socio-economic effects that it has in many areas of our country. There are many different aspects highlighted in the answer. One can reflect on what signals are being sent from the government. Over the last six months, the questions have been extremely debated. It is about legal issues, why there will be no administrative hunt in large parts of Sweden and who really rules in this type of question. I can see that there are very large values at stake. The perception of the people concerned is very clear. It is clear that it is the courts that have stopped the hunt and that that is where the problem lies. But people also have little faith in the political system, the messages given or the processes that are going on. It's ominous. In the long run, there will be an even greater problem about our legitimacy in the political discussion about how we make decisions that will have an impact in the country. It is regrettable that these kinds of issues should stop in legal processes rather than taking responsibility regionally. We have debated this several times in recent years, and the answers are repeated. Of course, there is a commitment to solving the issues, but it should be much stronger. Now we see the follow-up from the moose administration and the launch reports from Värmland, among others, in the past year. We can see that this has changed from year to year. If you go back and look at what it looked like before the wolf spread took place in Värmland, there is an enormous difference today compared to 20 years ago. We are talking about a twentieth of the then awarded license which is now being discussed for autumn hunting. These are tremendous changes. There are about 13 000 people who solve state hunting cards in Värmland. Almost everyone hunts moose, and most of them are affected. Many hunting teams are thinking of cancelling the hunt completely. Landowners give up the idea that there should be hunting. You lose rent, you lose income, you lose income, you lose income, and so on. Dog drivers stop active dog activities. You've given up hope that you'll be able to drop them on your own land. If we look at the figures for 2015 there were barely 3,300 moose of the 4 300 awarded last autumn. In 2012, the quota allocated was approximately 8,500. That's when 6 500 animals were shot. There's a difference between 3,000 moose. At the same time, we expect the wolf to take to the same extent 3 000 moose. Yesterday I heard a report from the Lässerud hunting team in western Värmland, where there has been an allocation of two adult animals and three calves in an area of 5 000 hectares. That is a reduction of 60 – 70 percent since last year. If you assess the situation based on the autumn, the question is: Where are we next year?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-243	Madam President, I would like The wolf issue is an issue that touches and upsets, and many are involved in the issues. We in Parliament have been very clear and in modern times have on two occasions made clear announcements to the government. Before Christmas, the Swedish Administrative Court ruled that EU Union law requires that the provisions of the Species and Habitats Directive can be reviewed in the courts of the Member States. As we have heard here earlier in the debate, it has been followed up by the government which decided that the matter can be decided by the General Administrative Court. I and the Christian Democrats believe that it represents a setback for the predatory policy adopted by the Parliament, in which the focus is that the authorities with the greatest expertise should make decisions on hunting predators and that lengthy court proceedings should be avoided. With the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, there has been a situation in which an appeal in itself, no matter how factually well-founded it is, can create a court process that in practice makes hunting impossible. This situation risks creating great frustration and undermining confidence in the legal order and its ability to deal with predatory management. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is: does the government consider it reasonable that this issue should be decided in this way by lawyers in court and not by authorities with expert competence working on behalf of us elected representatives?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-248	Mr President, I would like to I myself am a rural resident and hunter and hunt moose. I know the problem very well. I also have a very great understanding of the animal owners who have been hit as hard as is the case in many rural areas in Sweden. There are many who are following the debate today in the media, on television and also in this House. The image that the four alliance representatives are trying to give here probably also needs another reflection. You'd rather blame others. Here we have a government that has the ambition to get things right, where things are not in order today. The hunting regulation that Sweden has today was the alliance government that put in place. It has created disorder, and it has created as many appeals and legal proceedings as possible. The hunting regulation put in place by the Alliance Government is a major failure, I say. I hear here four alliance representatives who say: ignore what the Supreme Administrative Court says! Never mind what the European Commission says about the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency as the last instance! Is that Bergheden's, Danielsson, Jacobsson Gjörtler's and Nordell's opinion? Is it the opinion of the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats that the Swedish government should ignore what the Supreme Administrative Court's outcome has given us? Tell me! If we look back at history, we see that we have had a license hunt on wolves in Sweden for seven years. Of the seven years the Alliance government has had five years. Of the five years, there was no hunting for two years. 93 wolves were assigned, and 50 or 10 were shot on average. Of these seven years, the Cooperation Government has had two years. 92 wolves have been assigned, and 58 were shot — that is, 29 animals on average. These are realities. Notwithstanding this outcome and all these appeal proceedings that make management and administration difficult, we need to get things right. It cannot go on like this. The government takes this issue very seriously. We've started a number of processes, but not all of them are ready yet. I must return to them in the next speech. Then what's done? In order to obtain scientific evidence of what is beneficial conservation status, we have requested two independent of each other scientific analysis. Both have reached the number of 300 wolves. Today we have 415 wolves. The study has also taken great account of genetics, and it has been shown that an immigrant individual is needed every five years. So do we. There are also some other measures, which I must return to in the next speech.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-257	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for trying to answer. In fact, I did not receive an answer to any of the questions I put to the Minister, which I would have liked us to have been clarified. Perhaps the Minister can make a note of it. The first question was: Is what people say in rural areas – that it is the Green Party that governs the whole wolf policy in the government? The second question was: Is the Minister going to take the initiative to try to discuss the Species and Habitats Directive with the EU again to move the wolf from the Red Listed in Annex 4 to Annex 5, that is, to make the wolf huntable and thus avoid appeal proceedings in Sweden? The wolf is not endangered. This government has managed to get the wolf to reach the highest records ever when it comes to wolf in that country for the foreseeable future. It is not the government that takes responsibility for this, but it is the people who live in the countryside who have to pay with grated animals and dogs, an abandoned moose hunt and a rural development that means that we can no longer produce food to the extent we hope for in this country. It is the Minister who is responsible for this today. The Minister will be happy to try to blame the old government. We have certainly made a mistake in it too, but today it is the Minister who is responsible for all these issues. It's the minister who can do something. He has almost the whole Parliament behind him, except maybe a couple of parties, when it comes to acting on these issues. We expect something to happen. The third question was: Will we have wolf hunting in Sweden next year? These three questions I would like the Minister to try to answer in the next speech. Mr President, I would like to It's worse than that. At the moment, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has developed new plans for how to protect so-called gene wolves in this country, i.e. especially valuable wolves for the sake of the population. I can well understand why we are trying to find reasons to protect them. Here, however, we want to introduce far-reaching measures such as the fact that it is all of a sudden the domesticated person who has to bring in their animals in order for the wolf to be able to ravage the area freely. This is another matter in which it is the government that has the ultimate responsibility, through regulatory letters, laws and rules, to see to what wolf orientation we should have here in the country. My question is this: does the Minister agree with what has now been developed, that we should protect gene wolves more than we protect domestic animals in these areas? Would it mean the same thing here in Stockholm? If a gene wolf comes here and takes dogs and other pets, for example, will it be put to death or not? Or will it be allowed to carry on here just as it will be allowed to do in the countryside? I would like to have a reflection on this. Is this reasonable? In the rest of Europe, wolves are hunted. The wolf is kept away from domestication in order to develop the production of food in these countries. In this country we have a government that allows the wolf population to grow and the countryside to pay the price. This is not a good development for rural areas, and the Minister is responsible.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-267	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. However, like Sten Bergheden before me, I am forced to say that I did not get the answers to the questions I asked. Instead, the Minister for Rural Development is beginning to tell us that the government has taken a lot of initiatives and put out a number of missions to gain a deeper understanding of the wolf, how best to manage it and so on. Perhaps this is part of the problem, because this is what the government is now doing in the area by area. When the government doesn't know what it wants, you start a lot of processes. You throw a lot of balls into the air, and so you hope that some of the balls will eventually land in a way so that you can pilot them through the Riksdag and get to some kind of policy and decision. I mean, it's troubling when you don't know what you want. When the government itself cannot tell you what you want and formulate assignments based on it, it will also be difficult to move forward. Worse still, this creates enormous uncertainty in the country. The government's actions right now cause people to be worried. What's going to become of this? What will the government do to try to get this right? As I said, I didn't get any answers to my questions. The government is talking about a demand for urgency. The Minister for Rural Development repeats it from the speaker's seat. I want to know what this urgency requirement means. What does that mean? How quickly will the cases be handled? Is it a week, two weeks, four weeks or six months? Does it matter? If the deadline means that we are talking about several months, it has no practical significance. I think the Minister for Rural Development understands that. It is therefore important to clarify what the urgency requirement means. I would also like to know what the government and the Minister for Rural Development intend to do if it turns out that the urgency requirement cannot be met. If so, what is the Minister prepared to do? I also asked about what the government has explained in the media before, namely that it is considering gathering the appeals to an administrative court in Luleå. When will there be a final decision on this? Is the government prepared to provide any resources that will enable this to work at all? Finally, I would like to join in the thread that other debaters have raised here. This is partly a problem arising from the EU's directive on species and habitats. In order to find a long-term solution to this, I think it is important that the government, as did the Alliance Government, continues to hold talks with the EU in order to try to move forward and reach a more constructive solution so that we can create better conditions for functioning wolf management. My direct question to the Minister for Rural Development is: Are you and the government prepared to have this discussion with the EU?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-275	Mr President, I would like to I wish that this issue could be discussed at a level that bears fruit and provides a long-term solution. It would benefit from the constructive and forward spirit of our discussion and the loss of prestige. Nevertheless, it is quite important to look to the future and to see the present situation as it is. I do not feel that the understanding of it is always in place with those investigating but also makes the values about which decisions are to be made. One appeal to government representatives is to look forward constructively to how we are going to resolve this. In my previous post I highlighted elk shooting and ongoing elk management work. I can see that the situation is really serious when it comes to elk presence and opportunities for elk hunting in the future in Värmland. I do not think this is about politics, but it is about facts about how the elk tribe actually looks and how much elk is used to feed the wolf tribe that is in Värmland. This has an enormous socio-economic impact. Part of the continued work is to ensure that this is investigated at the best possible level and as thoroughly as possible. I also have an appeal for the Minister for Rural Development to take the initiative to get further studies highlighting these great values at stake when it comes to socio-economic effects. I believe that everyone benefits from having as broad a perspective as possible on this issue and that there is a basis for future decisions. The rural minister's reply stresses the desire to gain a deeper understanding of the wolf. I hope that this is about the conditions on the wolf issue in general and not about preventing more people from accepting the level that is now. There are a number of important aspects linked to the measures taken by the government and the Minister, and then the question of how the changes can ensure that there will be license hunting for upcoming winters is extremely relevant. It would be interesting to hear the Minister for Rural Development further develop it. Then I wonder what kind of evidence the Minister expects the relevant authorities to have in order to be able to make the best possible decisions for the coming winter. I hope that there will be a decision which, in practice, renders it possible for an active administration to be implemented and not just for a decision to be taken, as the Minister said in his reply. When does the Minister judge that these rules can be applied and fully applied? I hope that the Minister will choose to answer these questions. Otherwise, I will repeat them, because these are issues that will be extremely important for the continued work of getting a balance in administration and also to get this issue going in the right direction. Welcome to Värmland for the upcoming moose hunt! It is extremely threatened right now throughout the county.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-283	Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister for Rural Development asked whether we have the view that the Supreme Administrative Court's decision should be ignored. That is not really what my question was about, but I said on the contrary: does the government consider it reasonable that the matter should be decided by a lawyer in a court of law, or is it more reasonable for it to be done by authorities with expert competence and working on behalf of elected representatives? That was my question, and I would like an answer to that. I think it is more reasonable that it is precisely experts and elected representatives rather than courts who should decide and take account of these socio-economic conditions and consequences. We want a smooth order. It should be possible to reclassify the threat status of the Directive. It hasn't been done for many years. The European Commission had been tasked by the Environment Commissioner to review how the Species and Habitats Directive could be amended, but unfortunately the Swedish government parties were involved and formed a majority in the European Parliament to vote in favour of a report that recently stated that art and Habitatsdirecti do not know under any circumstances would be reviewed. In view of this, I wonder: Is it the line of the Social Democrats and the Government to prevent a revision of the directive? I think it is incredibly important that such a thing can be done.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-287	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the debate so far. I've been listening and I couldn't really help but jump in here right now. I would like to start as the Rural Minister did and say that I am also a rural resident, a hunter and a hunting dog owner. I hunt moose in vargrevir. This government wants a policy that protects people as well as our predators and other animals. We want a long-term and viable wolf tribe. I think that Daniel Bäckström spoke well about forward thinking and that we should have a constructive approach to this. But I wonder if you've seen the situation with the wolf today. It was endangered in Sweden earlier. In 1983 two wolves came in who founded the present tribe. Then a wolf came in until 1991 and then two males who propagated for the first time in 2008. We have thus had five successful immigrants in seven generational times, some 35 years. In order for us to have a genetically viable and good wolf strain, we must ensure that there is a functioning immigration of wolves, and we must also safeguard genetic variation. We also have some more wolves, Tivedenwolves for example, here in Sweden, but they have not yet made their contribution to the population by multiplying with other wolves. The wolf is covered by the Species and Habitats Directive. This means that it has special protection and is not, in any case, a hunting game, and we cannot just change that here in this House. I don't think we want that either, because then we would open up to anything later. It is not compatible with EU law and with EU law principles to be unable to appeal these decisions in court. Does Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell want us to violate the principles of EU law here in Sweden and make this some kind of High Chaparral because it concerns a particular species? I don't think so. We're going to have order. This government is preparing documentation so that we can make informed and good decisions. It's supposed to be a safe way. We have tried to increase acceptance and understanding. And we have increased funding for prevention and new methods. That is the way we must go; we shall not argue about what has happened. I don't think we solve everything by shooting all the wolves. Let's shoot ourselves in the foot. What we have to do is make sure to have a viable wolf tribe here and now, a wolf tribe with which we can live and so that we can have our domestic animals here.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-293	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear Daniel Bäckström say that we must have a serious debate on this so that we can find solutions. We want to try to find a practice that holds true. To Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, I would like to say that this is the way that the Supreme Administrative Court has said that this must be tried in an administrative court. Then we have to follow it. Unfortunately Nordell and Bäckström have colleagues from the Moderates who are trying to create a completely different picture. They are involved in the capture of farmers in cubics when they try to create a picture that this government is responsible for the existence of so many wolves, despite the fact that during the time of the Alliance no wolf was shot in two years and for five years ten wolves were shot on average. There have never been as many wolves shot as during this government's time. There must be some measure of how to try to soil the other. And some self-criticism is needed. The moderate Members are also trying to create a picture that this government is trying to complicate and delay legal proceedings. This government is doing the reverse. We're trying to figure it out. In fact, we have a ruling from the Supreme Administrative Court. So the Moderates don't care about that verdict. In addition to the things I mentioned in my previous speech, we also allowed Riberdahl to look at the legal perspective in this regard. This investigation concluded that it is not compatible with EU law. On 18 December 2015, the Supreme Administrative Court reached exactly the same conclusion. The appeal process cannot be dealt with as the hunting regulation is; it must be brought to court. It's not enough with the Environmental Protection Agency. The hunting regulation must be able to be appealed and enter into the process. This has also happened this year. Although we have a hunting regulation according to which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the last instance, it has been appealed in court, because the Supreme Administrative Court has said that it should be that way. This is what I hope you are thinking about, Sten Bergheden and Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, when you try to push your line and try to soil the other. It is you who have created disorder, and you want to continue with it. We have also received a new hunting regulation on site. According to it, there is an urgency requirement. In addition, we have now referred a proposal that would allow a special court to be appointed so that appeals do not end up in several administrative courts. The proposal is that it should be the Administrative Court in Luleå. Any appeal there should be handled in the Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall. In addition, there is a proposal that decisions at county administrative level must be taken much earlier. The proposal is 15 September, except for the year in which minimum levels are to be set. Then it should be October 1st. We should remember that the decisions taken last year by the county administrative boards were made on 10 and 11 November. According to the proposal that is being consulted, decisions must be taken much earlier so that things can be sorted out. This government is in a state of order. There's got to be order and order. In fact, I think that the previous government handled it badly. This government has inherited this. But now the ambition is for things to be orderly. If this is not enough, I am prepared to take further action.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-304	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. All listeners can once again note that the questions I have put to the Minister have still not been answered. Who controls wolf politics in Sweden? Is it the Green Party? Will we have a wolf hunt next year? And will the Minister address the most important issue, namely going down to the EU and making sure that the wolf is removed from the red-listed Annex 4 to Annex 5? That's what this is about. We can stand here and discuss our wolf management for just so long if we cannot deal with our wolf management ourselves and can only blame the European Union. We must take this issue back to Sweden. It's obvious. The minister should be able to answer if he wants to remove the wolf from the redlisted in Appendix 4 and move it to Appendix 5. It is necessary if we are to manage the game of the wolf. The demand for urgency has been raised here before. What is the urgency requirement for a court to be completed before a possible new license or protection hunt? Is that a week? Is that a month? Is that three months? Or is it a year? This will be the next concern, even if the Minister tries to point out that the problem is being solved in this way. The cases can lie in Swedish courts for a very long time, unless the Minister is clear on how long the urgency requirement is supposed to be. Mr President, I would like to I am disappointed that we have not received any answers here today to the simple questions we have asked in the interpellations. The concerns of the countryside around the country have been completely ignored. Courts and other things are allowed to continue pursuing the issue, rather than taking power over both laws and rules in this regard.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs. No, the Minister for Rural Affairs, we are not looking to create any concern or send a lot of debt in different directions. I have asked a number of specific questions, but I can see that I have not received an answer to any of them. I shall repeat them so that the Minister for Rural Development is given the opportunity to respond to them in his last speech. The first question concerns what the government wants with predatory policy. What is the government's line? What do you want to achieve? The second question is: what guarantees does the government have that the urgency requirement will be met? The third question, which follows from the second, is: What time intervals do you see before you in the trials? How long will it take? The fourth question is: if it is not possible to meet the urgency requirement, what measures is the Minister prepared to take? The fifth and final question is: are the government and the Minister for Rural Development prepared to hold talks with the EU about lifting the Species and Habitats Directive in order to ensure that we can achieve more well-functioning predatory management in the future?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-317	Mr President, I would like to I hope that the Minister for Rural Development will use his closing two minutes to answer all the questions. What is planned in concrete terms? And what is being prepared on the part of the minister, the ministry and the government? It's about us having leadership that delivers concrete results. There's always a history description. It can be discussed endlessly. However, the challenge for the current minister responsible is to demonstrate as much initiative as possible and to achieve results on this issue. It is a minister's opportunity and also an enormous responsibility. These questions are running out of our hands. When it comes to elk management issues and how we can have a sustainable elk stem in a county such as Värmland, which has previously been considered by many as one of the world's best areas for elk – the 80s were fantastic – we now see how the allocation but also the shift decreases throughout the county year by year. It's extremely serious. When so many wolves run around daily, a lot of food is needed. The question is whether it is socio-economic and socio-economic that so much of the elk population should go to wolf food. There are about 30 territories. We certainly know what the practical conditions are when it comes to cattle husbandry, hunting opportunities and rural conditions. The issue is of paramount importance for rural development in Värmland. I expect that it is not only words of strong commitment, but also a commitment from the government that manifests itself in practical, concrete, successful and results-oriented policies.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-321	Mr President, I would like to I note that there is a kind of populism in the debate from the Moderates in particular. They say it's just going down to the EU and telling you what to do with the Species and Habitats Directive. Should we also take the opportunity to move lynx and bears from the same annex? In fact, we have a functioning hunt and tribe. Minimum requirements are set for 870 lynx and 1 400 bears in Sweden. They are included in the same annex as the wolf. It has been said that the wolf should be viable. As a floor, 300 wolves are needed, but then there must be a gene exchange with the other continuum, which should amount to at least 1,700 animals. Therefore, immigration must be ensured so that there is a gene exchange. It is easy to say that you should just go down to the EU and get to grips with this, but you must also understand what you are saying, what it would mean and realise that it does not work that way. This government is doing what is right. We want a long-term policy for a viable wolf tribe and a policy for both humans and animals to live together. We are now implementing this by developing the basis for decisions that will hold in the future. We should be legally on our feet when it comes to appeal proceedings and ensure that there are means for greater understanding and prevention so that we can live with the predators and not act against them.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-325	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to discuss this issue more times, and I hope that it can be discussed in a – as Daniel Bäckström says – serious way. It's about looking forward. But there are problems when some Members try to give a picture that blackens down the opponent and when you do not have an ounce of self-criticism. This is a very important issue in terms of finding a balance. There are many different interests that stand against each other, so it is important that we deal with the issue properly and legally. There is a ruling from the Supreme Administrative Court, and the government will follow it, no matter what the Moderates say. We have high goals to get things together. It is important that decisions work at all stages. We expect to have in place a new hunting regulation in May that means – we will see what the referrals say – that a special court will be set up and that decisions will be taken much earlier. In the event of an appeal against decisions, they shall be dealt with promptly. It is unusual to enter a requirement of urgency. This means that the case takes precedence over other cases. Then I do not know if this is enough, I dare not guarantee it, but if it is not enough, the Government's ambition is to take further action, because we need to get things right. The old hunting regulation that we are now living with and that the old alliance government put in place has caused confusion in this area.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-329	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me what initiatives I have taken so far and what I intend to do to continue to implement the Parliament's announcement to establish a new wildlife agency. Sten Bergheden has also asked me when I expect to have the new game agency in place. The hunting investigation submitted a sub-report Wildlife Authority – hunting and game management in a new era, SOU 2013:71. The report has been referred, and the government's assessment is that certain aspects of the possible creation of a new authority require further investigation. Outstanding issues need to be analysed much deeper than the investigation has done. Moreover, the funding proposed by the report is not sustainable. Swedish game management has changed over time and continues to develop. We need to carefully consider the forms and the structure of the authorities in order to create the most efficient and sustainable game management possible. Among other things, there is a need for better coordination of game management issues. The Government is acting to build up long-term trustful collaborations with stakeholders in order to improve the conditions for effective and sustainable game management.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-333	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer, although I might have wished the Minister to have announced that the investigation had been set up and that it would have been possible to report when the new Wildlife Authority could be in place and how it is planned to resolve this issue. It is now a year ago that a majority in Parliament clearly talked about us wanting to try out the possibility of setting up a game agency. I read aloud from the committee's decision: The committee welcomes the considerations of the Hunting Act investigation regarding the structure of the authority and the proposal for a new wildlife authority. The committee proposes that a new agency for hunting and game management be set up as soon as possible. The general mission of the Swedish Hunter Association shall continue. The committee believes that the Swedish Hunters' Association's work with the general mission works well. It has been done effectively and responsibly, and it is a good example of good cooperation with civil society and authorities. Through the general assignment, the state has access to the Swedish Hunter Association's network and thus reaches a large part of the hunters in a cost-effective way. The new authority should be financed by redeploying responsibilities and resources from the current administrative structure. That decision contained the answer to all the questions that the Minister has called for and on which the Minister has not yet set up an investigation. It would therefore be more attractive for us to have answers to some simple questions here today – I usually ask the Minister simple questions, it is usually the easiest way – and I hope to get clear answers. The Minister writes in his reply that new investigations are needed. Well, then my question is: has the Minister set up these investigations in the year since the announcement was given? Will the Minister set up these investigations, and if so, when will they be completed? These are three simple questions that are clearly based on the announcement made by a majority in the Swedish Parliament. Power in Sweden is based on the people and from the Swedish parliament. It is the Swedish parliament that tells the government on certain issues what they want to have done, and then the government must somehow address the issue. Now it's been a year since the announcement. The Minister may think that this can be called urgency. I do not think it is urgent, given that we know that a number of issues need to be investigated in order to get this game authority out. I think that using a year to do nothing instead of setting up this investigation is the wrong priority. I wish the Minister could answer these three simple questions.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-341	Mr President, I would like to There are a great many hunting issues that need to be dealt with, not least the one that the previous debate was about. There they put in place a disorder that naturally also takes power from other issues that need to be dealt with. As I said in my interpellation response, the interim report of the Hunting Act investigation on a game agency has been referred. The assessment is that a much deeper analysis must be carried out than was presented in the report. There is also a need for a precise clarification of the State commitment. Funding is not sustainable at all. Of course, these parts need to be put in place, and these are things that are being prepared within the Government Office. I would also like to mention that we must take into account the views of the county boards. We have a regional administration. The county administrative boards say that this would not strengthen hunting and game management. I believe that this is an important aspect that we must also include in our work.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-344	Mr President, I would like to Yes, of course, there are many issues that need to be investigated and clarified, as the Minister says. But then is the simplest and clearest question and the possibility at this point of actually starting the work that will take time? Because it is not the case that the government has intended to obstinately obstinate on this issue, to ignore the introduction of the game agency that a majority in Parliament has clearly said they want? In that case, it would be pretty serious. We will have to return to Parliament with that question if it does not work out. But I assume that the minister prioritises the tasks that come from the Swedish Parliament. As I said when I read from the report, it is quite clear that a majority in the committee and a majority in Parliament want this issue resolved. Mr President, I would like to The Minister now has the opportunity to present a report to the Swedish people and the parties that voted for the proposal. When will the investigation to analyse the issues be completed? When will proposals be made to set up the new Wildlife Agency and to get it up and running? It's very simple and straight. It would be appropriate for the Minister and others to raise this issue at the next government meeting and note that the Swedish Parliament has ordered something from the government that it has not been able to deliver for a year, because it has had so much to do with other hunting issues that it has not been able to do so. The worst thing is that we do not see much results on the other issues either. It is a bit serious that you try to blame yourself with working with other issues and not coping with these future issues where we also need results. There has been a hunting team investigation that looked at this and clearly stated that this activity needs to be moved to a new game agency. In essence, I think the Minister also thinks that this is a good idea. He should help in the work of getting clearer roles in game work here in the country. Once again, Mr President, when will the investigation and when will it report its findings?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-348	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the many issues the government is working on. It's being prepared at the Government Office. I understand that Bergheden is frustrated. He ordered this a year ago and wanted delivery within a year. I respect your sight, Sten Bergheden. But the delivery can't happen today. There are a great many authorities involved in this, and there are many different aspects that need to be taken into account. The Environmental Protection Agency, which has the main responsibility for this, once switched to a more process-oriented organisation. Now we are more committed to a specific organisation, and I think that it might be easier to deal with these issues. But this also affects the Police Authority, which has many operational tasks, not least the killing of animals that have caused road traffic injuries or pose a threat to humans. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has the right of prescription for hunting state land above the cultivation limit. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management also deals with hunting issues. In addition, SVA, that is, the State Veterinary Institute, the Museum of Natural History, the Central Animal Testimonial Ethics Board, Viltskadecenter, Coast Guard and Customs are involved in this. There are a lot of people involved, and of course this is not an easy question. It's a complex issue. The investigation that was presented is not to the fullest. Above all, funding is not enough. Coordination and an in-depth analysis are needed before a proposal for a change can be submitted to Parliament.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-351	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister, although I find it a little strange that the Minister is using his speaking time to list all the problems that exist with a possible new wildlife authority. I fully understand, of course, that there are a lot of issues that need to be resolved. But that is precisely why the Minister should have set up this inquiry, looked over these issues and then returned to the House with proposals. This is what would have been needed in order to bring about the game agency that the Swedish Parliament has decided on. But, Mr President, instead of setting up the investigation and moving forward on this issue, the Minister has chosen not to do anything. That is the serious thing, and that is why we are having this interpellation debate today. It is a year since the Riksdag decided on this. A year after that decision nothing has happened, and the only thing the minister lists here is all the problems he sees. But now it is the case that the Swedish parliament has decided on this, and then the Swedish parliament has the right to get it done. We will follow this up extremely closely from the Moderates' side and ensure that it is really investigated, that proposals are made and that we have a new game agency in place.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-353	Mr President, I would like to It is just like in the last debate: Bergheden wants to give the picture that nothing has happened and that nothing is done when you report that much is done, and although you answer the questions you have not answered them. As a rural minister, I must say that I am concerned about these issues. Hunting issues and game conservation are very important for Swedish rural areas. However, many authorities, organisations and individuals are affected by hunting and game. These are complex issues, not simple. The measures we are going to take must strengthen hunting and game conservation. In order for us to succeed here, I think it is important that we have good coordination – that we improve it – and that we have the regional level with us in a very good way. If we ignore the regional level, we will miss a lot. The Government has therefore initiated an evaluation of the Viltförvaltningsdelegation to look at how they have functioned, and has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to develop a new strategy for Swedish wildlife management. It has been referred, and the referrals will now be analysed, as well as the interim report of the Hunting Act investigation, where it emerged that coordination and cooperation need to be improved. That's what it's all about.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-358	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me why the Swedish Hunter Association's general mission on game conservation should be reviewed and if I have confidence in the Swedish Hunter Association's work. Sten Bergheden has also asked whether I intend to use the hunters' contributions to distribute new assignments to organisations which, in some parts of their work, oppose the hunters and the hunt. As Minister for Rural Affairs, I am defending questions about game management. I believe that game conservation and hunting are important rural industries. Wildlife care, the right to hunting and the pursuit of hunting are regulated by the Hunting Act. According to the hunting legislation, everyone who hunts annually is required to pay a game conservation fee. The hunters' contributions are managed in the Wildlife Fund. The Hunting Act clearly states that the Fund should be used to promote game conservation and other purposes compatible with the Hunting Act's purpose. It is, of course, impossible to use the fund in a way that would conflict with Swedish law. The fund cannot therefore be used in any way that could undermine game conservation and the purpose of the hunting law. According to the Act, the purpose of game conservation is to preserve the species belonging to Sweden's game population and to promote the appropriate development of the game strains. The Swedish Hunter Association has a strong regional foundation based on voluntary engagement. Since 1938, the Swedish Hunter Association has been responsible for leading parts of game conservation and hunting in Sweden. Since then, the world has changed. Responsible government requires, among other things, that forms of work be reviewed if necessary. A review will identify possible shortcomings, which is a prerequisite for autonomously initiating and delivering improvements. The review I have initiated concerns the forms of the general assignment and is not an evaluation of the Swedish Hunter Association's work.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As far as this interpellation is concerned, I think the Minister has responded in a clear and good way to me. He replied, "The payments made by Jäga rna are managed in the Viltvårdsfond". The Hunting Act clearly states that the Fund should be used to promote game conservation and other purposes compatible with the Hunting Act's purpose. It is, of course, impossible to use the fund in a way that would conflict with Swedish law. The fund cannot therefore be used in any way that could counteract the game and the purpose of the hunting law. I think that those wordings are very good. They give me a little better sense that you have not intended to use the money for anything other than what the purpose is. The fact is, Madam President, that the money for the Wildlife Conservation Fund is collected through our hunting cards, which we solve every year. Those who solve hunting cards are the hunters in the country, including drifters, if they take part in meat and other things, as well as dog drivers. The fee is SEK 300 per year, and the money will be used just as the Minister has described in the answer. I can tell you in terms of information where the money went in 2014, so that you get a picture of it. The Swedish Hunters' Association received 51.8 million, the Hunters' Association 6.8 million, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency 24.9 million, the police 39.2 million, the County Administrative Boards 700 000 SEK and the Swedish National Veterinary Agency 3 million. They have spent a lot of money on overall information and information about practical hunting and game management and more. It's important that we still hold that part. That is why we and, above all, I was very worried when I saw the Minister taking the initiative for a review. In view of the fact that the Minister has said earlier today that there is a heavy burden on the Government Office and that it is difficult to set up investigations and reviews because there is a lack of money, that it takes time and everything, I have to ask the Minister: why has this particular review been given priority over all the other investigations and other things that we have requested from Parliament? Instead, an investigation has been launched that no one has actually asked for.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-368	Madam President, I would like We've got a lot of work going on. The issue we discussed in the previous interpellation debate is something that the Government Office is working on, and we are also working on this issue. This assignment has been carried out by the Swedish Hunter Association for nearly 80 years – it has been carried out since 1938. It is a large organization with 150 000 members, spread throughout the country, so that the League is represented throughout the country. Regional roots are clearly established in the organisation, which in the case of the general mission in many respects is a prerequisite for managing it properly. I would like to say once again that the Hunters' Union has done so in a commendable way. This review does not at all concern the assessment of the Union's performance of the mission, as I mentioned, but is about the forms and that we should have a legally secure process. It has actually been questioned whether it is legally secure, so that is one of the reasons. But it must also be a transparent process. That is one of the reasons for the review.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-371	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll just have to ask the minister a follow-up question. The aim is for it to be transparent, says the Minister. That part is obviously good. But for the sake of clarity, for the audience listening to this and for those who read the Minutes afterwards, I would like to ask: can the Minister guarantee that the money will not end up with organisations whose main objective is to combat hunting and wildlife conservation? It would be good if I could get the Minister to say yes to that question. Transparency can be good. However, I did not think that this was perhaps the most prioritised issue, given all the other issues that we should perhaps have dealt with in the Ministry of Industry and on the Minister's behalf in relation to wolves, wildlife authorities and other things that we have discussed in previous interpellation debates – it might have been more of a priority. One final question: when is the Minister expecting the review to be completed?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-374	Madam President, I would like I had hoped to be here this afternoon. Instead, however, I have listened to parts of the previous debates from a somewhat shrill broadband line on a somewhat shrill train. That's why I'm running late. However, I have managed to hear that Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has announced proper measures to create order in the game management, as is requested. I have also heard that several bourgeois parties, especially the Moderates and perhaps especially Sten Bergheden, are in complete lack of their own politics and are now merely falling into populism. If I had been involved in the debate this afternoon about, for example, a game agency, I would have told you that the previous government, which had a finance minister named Anders Borg, did not spend any money or work at all on a new game agency. It is not with another authority that we are creating more order and order if there are some ambiguities in other authorities. I believe that we must then ensure that the authorities that we already have are in order. Rural Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has replied very well, namely that, according to us Social Democrats, it is the regional administration that we should prioritise, ensure that it works and strengthen. Then, personally, I can also push for the relocation of additional government agencies, such as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, to Östersund or other parts of the country. I think that creates further order. It is in the regional presence that the general mission of the Hunters' Association gives so much back to game conservation. It is also through the regional presence and the voluntary commitment that we are getting more politically than if, as has also been demanded from certain authorities, this is being procured. I believe that the general mission that has worked well for almost 80 years shows that the Hunters' Union has done this very well. I note that the Hunters' Association has asked for a dialogue on how we take the general mission forward for many years, so that the general mission can be successful for many more years. When it comes to such a dialogue, Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has announced that you should look at this – what has worked well and what you need to improve or have an additional dialogue with the Hunter Association about. I believe that the Hunter Association and its members have the capacity to distinguish between the membership of the Hunter Association and the general mission of the Hunter Association. I know the Hunter Association for many years, and it is a very professional organisation. It is, above all, an organisation that has a presence throughout the country. It is something that we from this house have missed on many other fronts.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-383	Madam President, I would like Once again, on the issues raised about the use of funds, I want to be very clear. Of course, it is not possible to use the Wildlife Conservation Fund for any purpose that is incompatible with the aim of hunting, that is, to promote game conservation. Organisations whose purpose is to oppose hunters and hunting can by no means receive funds from the Wildlife Fund, as this would be contrary to the aim of the Hunting Act. The fund is managed by Kammarkollegiet, but it is the government that decides how the funds should be used. I do not want to anticipate the review taking place in dialogue with the Swedish Hunter Association, which itself has expressed that there is every reason to have a dialogue on this. We will see what this will result in in the autumn, so that we can then take a decision on the matter.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-385	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his clear answer. That's exactly what I asked for. I will comment on what the Social Democrat Isak From, who has now arrived at the debate both a little late and a little ill-read, said. But it's nice to have you here, Isak From. What we discussed earlier, however, with regard to a game agency and other things, it was perhaps not so clear from the government parties that they wanted to do this. I welcome the fact that you think this is a good proposal and that we can both envisage even delocalising activities from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which means in principle. The hunting investigation also concluded that this part should be removed from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and placed in its own authority. But that discussion, Isak From, will you then take your minister to resolve this and make sure that these investigations get you started. We do not need to take time to hold this debate in this House. I really have nothing more to add, given that I think I have received a good answer from the Minister at this point in time. It is still strange that priority should be given to investigating this. If it is very important for the government to do so, you will have to look at this and get it transparent in relation to these missions. But I think that the Minister should in future give priority to the assignments that the Swedish Parliament actually gives in the first place when it comes to announcements and other things and perhaps put the money and the power to make these things clear before embarking on other issues where there is no demand. Thank you for the debate.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-389	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his clear answer. It is clear that the general mission has been very important. It is very important that we have a voluntary commitment, and it is very important that we have hunters who at ten o'clock on a Saturday night can go out and track a game that is going on. It is also very important that from a hunting perspective we have the opportunity to inform about grazing injuries and about feeding, so that it is done in the right way. It is very sad that we have hunters who are being threatened. That is something that we in this House must take very seriously. It's not okay. I have to say, Sten Bergheden, that the Moderates did not spend any money on any new wildlife authority either in government or in opposition. Sten Bergheden will therefore perhaps lobby into his own party if the Moderates at all costs want to continue to create further confusion by adding another authority. I have nothing more to add about it. I see that this government takes overall responsibility for being active throughout the country. This is something that this country has missed in the past for a number of years.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-393	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden calls for a better priority to be given to the money and for it to be used for the right investigations. These are tough priorities every day because of the minus of 67 billion left to us by the Alliance. Hunting and game conservation are extremely important for Swedish rural areas. It is also important that they work for urban environments. We have, not least, traffic accidents that are a part of it, and they can actually happen almost anywhere in our elongated country. Then it is very good that we have an organisation that has a regional foundation all over the country, and it has actually been the Swedish Hunter Association that has handled this in an exemplary way for many years. I want to put it very clearly. Of course, these are issues that involve many people and about which there is discussion. I think that is very good. I promise that I will work to ensure that we get a good solution in dialogue, not least with the Swedish Hunter Association. I thank you for a good debate.
i-GhCvtyzG2nAo2xFsqbCagP	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson asks which of the 60-66 action plan milk will be implemented until 22 May 2016. Edward Riedl asks whether it is my position that the 87 points on the list of measures are sufficient to save Swedish milk producers. Daniel Bäckström asks what concrete measures I and the government will take in the spring of 2016 to support the milk industry and to provide a level playing field with other EU countries, whether we will compensate farmers financially for the additional interest costs incurred as a result of delayed payments of EU aid and whether we are prepared to discuss with the banks and find solutions that Italy has made, with the exemption of interest and amortisation for two to three years for dairy farmers. In February 2015, I called a meeting with representatives of organisations, companies and authorities with links to milk production. The initiative was taken in the light of industry concerns about the critical situation in many Swedish dairy companies. A joint dairy action plan was developed in which operators in the sector defined short- and long-term measures to strengthen dairy businesses. I see it as very valuable for the industry to come together in a common strategy, and my view is that all strategies need to be continuously developed in a changing world. The objectives and actions of the Action Plan are driven by the commitment and willingness of stakeholders to act and are linked in the longer version of the Action Plan to the various actors. However, this is not reflected in the shorter version quoted in the interpellation. Of the seven measures Magnus Oscarsson points out, four of them, 62, 63, 65 and 66 are linked to LRF Milk and LRF. I am therefore concentrating on the proposals for action addressed to the government. Action 61 proposes that the government be responsible for investigating whether a reduction in the employer's contribution for a company's first employees in small businesses is a cost-effective measure to strengthen the competitiveness of these companies. The government wants more one-man entrepreneurs to take the step and dare to hire their first employee. Therefore, the Government has referred a proposal to reduce the employer's contribution for the first employee. The proposal means that individual traders should only pay the old-age pension contribution, 10.21 %, to the employee's allowance during the first 12 months. The new rules are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2017. In the case of measure 60, which deals with competitiveness and the taxes on the means of production and the other measures in the action plan, the measures in the action plan for milk are one of several elements in the work on the food strategy we are working on. In this context, I would like to mention the work on the national food strategy announced by the government in the 2015 budget proposal. The strategy will contribute to making full use of the potential of Swedish food production. The aim of the food strategy is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and the profitability of food production while achieving the relevant national environmental objectives. The strategy will also contribute to increasing the proportion of organic production and consumption of food and provide better opportunities for consumers to make informed choices. In connection with the Government's presentation of the proposal on the national food strategy by spring 2016, the Government also intends to present public efforts to strengthen the Swedish food chain. Measure 64 proposes that the Ministry of Industry and the National Agricultural Administration, together with the County Administrative Boards, ensure appropriate procedures linked to the management of aid so that payments can be made on time. It is part of the Swedish Board of Agriculture's mission to pay out the subsidies as early as the EU acquis allows. 2015 was an exceptional year. There have been major reforms and a lengthy negotiation process. I regret that the 2015 aid is paid later than usual. I expect that the situation for 2016 aid will be better. Both the Government and the Swedish Board of Agriculture are working towards increased possibilities for advance payments of the 2016 support this autumn. I would also like to add that Sweden has managed to pay out aid earlier than most other Member States.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-405	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for his answer. The background to my interpellation is that the situation has deteriorated further during the winter and the closure of farms continues. Every week, on average, five dairy farmers end because it is not economically feasible to continue. At the end of January, the world's largest milk exchange Fonterra reported that the forecast was being further written down. At the beginning of February, the milk price index fell by 7.4 per cent. With a further reduction in milk prices on the world market, we can expect an accelerated exclusion of Swedish dairy farmers. The crisis situation for dairy farmers is further deepened. The price of milk is constantly lowered and is now down to about 2, 50. That's what the farmer gets for 1 liter. In the transaction after all the intermediate stages we pay consumers about 10 SEK. For the farmer to go plus minus zero the farmer should receive 3.50 - 3.60 SEK per kilo. So we are talking about at least one crown too little for every pound of milk. On 1 April, the newspaper ATL reported that Swedish milk has become the major loser in the EU. Unfortunately, it wasn't a April joke. Soon a year after the milk quotas were removed, it is clear that Swedish dairy farmers are losing competition. While milk weighing in the EU has increased by almost 5%, production in Sweden has decreased by 3%. In particular, production in our competitor countries is increasing Ireland, the Netherlands, Denmark, Poland and Germany. There's no light in sight. The light we see in the tunnel is a big train. Many dairy farmers I've talked to testify to a lack of liquidity. Some are allowed to sell land to get money, and some only pay the interest on the invoices. We'll see how the dairy farmers shut down their businesses if they can. In some cases there are bankruptcies. I understand that the Minister for Rural Development has been out, like me, meeting many dairy farmers who testify to the same thing. In a week, the government will come with its spring budget. Can all the dairy farmers who are watching the debate right now and who are hoping for a small straw expect to be compensated again this year, as did the government last year?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-411	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to our interpellations. The situation of Swedish dairy farmers is disastrous. Five Swedish dairy farmers a week may close down due to a lack of profitability. Swedish farmers are competing today with all other dairy producers in Europe. They have much better conditions for everything from diesel tax to laws and regulations for their business. All in all, Swedish milk becomes more expensive to produce at the same time as there is free price competition within the European Union. Long-term, it can never work. In this case, Swedish milk production risks being knocked out if we do not act politically, because it is essentially political decisions in Sweden that have put the Swedish dairy farmers in the situation they are currently in, in the less competitive situation. We have a uniquely strong animal welfare in Sweden, which in combination with high environmental requirements and high taxes explains why Swedish milk is more expensive than the one we import. Swedish politicians have first decided on a strong animal protection that drives up production costs. Then politicians from the same parties, locally in municipalities and county councils, decide to trade milk from countries with poorer animal welfare because it is cheaper. This really doesn't make any sense. Last year, in my opinion, the Minister for Rural Development took a cooperative approach towards Swedish milk producers. It created a lot of expectations outside this house. So far, however, the development of the dairy farmers has not turned around, and I do not think that they have, at least so far, noticed much of the good intentions they had. Basically, it is a question of tackling an unreasonable competitive situation that we have politically put them into. Together with the milk producers, the Minister drew up 87 points to be implemented in order to save Swedish milk production. Against this background, I have asked the Minister whether he thinks that will be enough. Madam President, I would like How many of these points have the Minister and his government implemented so far? It's a simple question that could get a simple answer in here.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-418	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to add my thanks to the Minister for Rural Affairs for the response in this House to the three amendments tabled. I am aware that it has been Easter celebrations, many working days and certainly a very intensive programme, but I can see, Madam President, that I have not received any answers to the questions I have submitted. I therefore hope that in this debate, the Minister for Rural Development can now thoroughly and objectively go over the question by question and tell us how the government views the respective question. The situation is extremely serious when it comes to Swedish milk production. We are in the fifth quarter of a milk crisis, and the settlement price continues to fall. It has been tough for a long time, and the forecasts now are anything but positive. The declarations and commitment have been awaited by those who are expected from the government to make proposals for action and long-term planning preconditions. In my interpellation, I asked what concrete measures the Minister and the Government will take in spring 2016 to support the milk industry and provide a level playing field with those in other EU countries. Will the Minister and the Government work to do as Italy did and find ways to work with interest and amortisation relief for the next two to three years? In view of the situation in which many people have had to wait for payments, both for compensatory aid and for other subsidies, in a situation where liquidity is extremely strained, there are costs for the individual farmer. My question was whether the government would consider taking interest costs as compensation, for it is the state and the EU that are causing the individual to suffer. One might consider which other sector would allow itself to accept that the State treats this type of aid and compensation in the way it treats the agricultural sector and milk producers. The Minister replies that 2015 was an exceptional year, that it has been difficult to predict exactly how the regulations and other things would be. We have discussed this before, not least linked to the conditions that were in the application process in spring 2015. The Minister expects that the situation of the 2016 aid will be better. Both the Government and the Swedish Board of Agriculture are working to be able to advance before the autumn so that the individual can receive the grants or support earlier. In practice, this could therefore mean that the individual now waiting for the 2016 aid would receive next year's support earlier. I think it is more important to focus on what measures and information the government has to present than to focus on that there are other countries that have made this worse. This is a major failure, and an enormous amount of effort is needed here and now to mitigate the crisis that is going on.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-424	Madam President, I would like Agricultural and food production is an original basic industry, which in the world and Sweden will also be a future industry and whose production needs to steadily increase with population growth, an increasingly drier climate in large parts of the world, crop asphalting and more. Sweden is in an excellent position to increase its food production after decades of decline in heavy areas such as milk and meat. We have nutritious soils, plenty of precipitation, skilled agricultural entrepreneurs and food industries, as well as excellence for good environment and good animal welfare. In 30 years Sweden has increased its food imports from 20 percent to about 55 percent and is the most import dependent country in Europe apart from small-putt countries. Not to reverse the downward trend now, but only passively increase food imports from countries with generally poorer environmental and animal welfare rules would be a betrayal of animals and the environment as well as the responsibility for contributing to Sweden's and the world's food supply. Since the 1980s Sweden has the business concept of having the world's strictest rules for animal welfare and the environment, which also gives a more expensive food. The state is also pushing to constantly set higher targets for the proportion of organic and organic production, whose qualities cost food an additional 25 to 60 per cent. Ecomats production has also increased significantly from almost nothing in the 1980s to today's 6-7 per cent of the market, thanks to growing political demand from the public sector, from the market and through high environmental support. The usual modern environmentally friendly Swedish agriculture, perhaps the world's best, has, however, reduced its production by about 25 percent during the same time, which is a decrease that is like ten times greater than what organic production has increased with. This means that the total has fallen sharply. Pig and beef production has fallen sharply, and milk production is now, as the intervention really shows, in a major and deeply serious crisis, draining dairy farms on capital and leading to bankruptcies and closures. And the bankruptcy of a farmer, Minister, is absolutely devastating because, in principle, loans are always guaranteed with their personal finances and therefore the farm and the company lose and often have to carry millions of debts on in their lives. Many common dairy farmers who have made millions of investments over the last decade, most often encouraged by politicians, advisors and banks, now see their reality in ruins when the milk price is at the 1980s level. The EU is now discussing various measures. Many EU countries are also acting to help. France lowers social security contributions and in Italy the government and banks have agreed on the amortisation and interest relief for a few years. In Sweden, the government has spoken a little about loan guarantees, but very little has happened. The competitiveness inquiry, which was set up by Eskil Erlandsson and which made very good proposals, is in a grind bag. We will see what comes out of the food strategy. But nothing has happened yet, so it's a lost year. It is good that this issue is raised in the Swedish Parliament and that there are several of us who are discussing it. I know that the Minister for Rural Development is in favour of these issues, but he must bring the whole government, including the Minister for Finance and the smaller party. I support the questions put by Daniel Bäckström. It is up to evidence, and I hope that the food strategy will surprise me.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-437	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister, and I thank the interpellants for choosing to lift up the tough situation of dairy farmers. For the last two years, I have had the privilege of riding around the Minister's home course. I have visited dairy farmers in Norrland and thereby got a slightly different perspective. For me as Ystadbo and actor it has been valuable to get an insight into what conditions exist in other parts of the country. In Norrland there are major challenges in terms of climate, and it is more expensive to build. On the other hand, the feed will be very good in this part of the country. More than in many other parts of the country, milk production here provides an important basis for creating jobs in rural areas where there are not many other businesses. The dairy companies are therefore very important in northern Sweden. Last Thursday I visited Norrmejerier's cheese production in Umeå and other dairies. I got two clear messages with me. One was what a challenge the distances in northern Sweden are. Milk trucks drive a total of 285,000 miles per year. Each milk truck drives 33,000 miles a year. It's a lot of distance. A clear contribution was therefore: Make sure that there is no mileage tax, and ensure that long journeys are introduced! I am not going to ask the Minister about it, but I would like to say that this would be a good thing. The second message was that there is great concern about a shortage of milk raw materials in the future. I spoke to the newly appointed CEO, and he said that their biggest concern is that they won't be able to get their hands on milk raw materials. Just since the turn of the year, the weight of milk has decreased from 6 to 10 percent, which is alarming. What is also of concern to Norrmejerier and many farmers around the country is the new division of national and compensatory aid within the LFA areas. Let me take a concrete example from Ångermanland. Boteå municipality was previously located in area 2b but is now located in area 4 and receives 45 öre in national support. Torsåker, on the other side of the river, was also in 2b but is now located in area 3 and receives 85 öre in national support. Junsele, northwest of Torsåker, was previously located in Area 1 but is now located in Area 3. You understand that a downgrading with reduced national support has quite a significant impact on many companies and dairy farms around northern Sweden. In Västernorrland it is about minus 2 million, and in Gävleborg it has been calculated that it is minus 5 million. There are large sums of money that affect the conditions in important parts of the country. The map has been redrawn after a temperature period. However, there are requests for the map to be redrawn and based on average temperature instead. There is an opening for it on 1 July this summer, and the Minister has said at Question Time and hearings that he is willing to redraw the map. Will you look at the LFA areas, redraw the map and make a new proposal?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-449	Madam President, I would like There were many questions beyond the questions of interpellation to which I have just replied, and as you will understand, I cannot answer everyone in this speech. After all, it was a Christian Democrat, a Moderate and a whole three Center Partyists who bombarded me with questions. Let me start by saying that it is not a milk crisis in Sweden alone. There is a milk crisis throughout the EU and globally. I have good insight into not least the European countries, and in many countries it is even worse than in Sweden – even though they do not have such strict rules. Let us not focus solely on rules to resolve this crisis, because there is an imbalance in the whole milk sector globally. The situation of dairy farmers is extremely difficult because of this imbalance and because of EU sanctions against Russia and its counter-sanctions against the EU. This creates major problems not least in Finland and in the Baltic countries, which had large exports to Russia. At low prices, there is always a structural change. This is the case in all sectors, whether we are talking about the flour industry, the steel industry or anything else. At low prices, companies are being shut down. In 2015, there were no more companies out of business than it has done on average in the last ten years. It was actually slightly fewer. But if we look at structural change historically, it has often been low-valued or completely depreciated companies that have been decommissioned. Today, well-invested and modern future agriculture is being knocked out with young and well-educated farmers. It worries me and the government a lot. We have taken a lot of measures to reduce the pressure. We have referred the proposal to reduce employers' contributions for the first year, which could benefit farmers. As far as the national envelope, which the EU distributed, is concerned, Sweden co-financed 100%. That's a total of 152 million. We fully compensate for the diesel tax increase plus we spend another 7 cents. There are 300 million every year for three years, that is 900 million. We'll double the methane support by 30 million. We've gone in with 150 million for increased cloven-hoof care for dairy cows. The cash is SEK 800 per animal per year. We are investing in advisory efforts for dairy companies and giving 300 million to the Innovation Partnership to bridge the gap between researchers and practitioners. We are making export efforts, for example through a Food Attaché in Beijing for 2 – 3 million and through 10 million for the export approval of facilities.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-458	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Minister for his reply. I very much regret that EU support for 2015 has not yet been fully paid out. Every time I travel in the country, I meet farmers who are still waiting to get money. It is money to which they are entitled and which is important to them right now for them to receive cash. Instead, they risk waiting until November of this year. It is not reasonable that a well-organised state such as Sweden should not be able to resolve this properly. Here the Minister for Rural Development must give a better answer. Within the EU, there is now a debate on raising the so-called de minimis level for how much support a Member State can provide to a farm. I assume that the Swedish Government will support these ideas. In any case, Sweden can start paying additional compensation to dairy farmers up to the minimum level this year. It is very important that the government in its additional budget for 2016 presented now in one week's time makes use of this opportunity so that the money can start being paid out to the dairy farmers as soon as possible. We Christian Democrats had already set aside funds in our draft budget last autumn to increase milk aid by SEK 335 million in 2016. Unfortunately, we have not received any support for this. Now the government has the chance to propose in the spring bill measures to save the milk industry. I appeal to the government and the Minister for Rural Development to take it if you think that Swedish milk production is important and that rural areas are important. Give a signal today to all those who are waiting for you and the government to understand and want to listen. My question to the Minister is again: is the government prepared to start paying the minimum compensation that other countries are thinking and discussing?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-465	Madam President, I would like Since there are many interpelllants, I understand that the Minister has no time. Nevertheless, I hope that he will use his next speech to try to answer as many questions as he can. Now I see that there is another Social Democrat reported to the debate. I hope that his party colleague, Isak From, will contribute to this. I am the first to agree that the Alliance Government could have done more for Swedish dairy farmers. There is no doubt about it. But we did some things. We removed the taxes on fertilizers, reduced employers' fees, and so on. The government represented by the Minister implements or plans to implement deterioration in those areas and in some other areas. Perhaps the most serious is increased diesel tax with continued indexation. It's possibly like a concession to the Green Party. It risks continuing over a long period of time to undermine the competitiveness of dairy farmers. In addition, if the government enforces a kilometre tax, it will hit the northern parts of Sweden that both I and the Minister represent and come from very hard. My question remains: how many of the 87 paragraphs have the government actually implemented? I understand that the world is changing. However, some of these must still have a bearing on competitiveness. The Minister himself referred to reduced competitiveness for one-man entrepreneurs. As I see it, the first employee is probably not the solution for the vast majority of dairy farmers I have met. They are not at the moment on the threshold of thinking about making new appointments. Instead, many of the people I meet are thinking about how to make the business go together and not how to be offensive. It answers the way I see it, Madam President, to the very wrong question. I would like to ask the Minister whether he thinks it is reasonable in the long term that Swedish dairy farmers should compete with other milk producers in the European Union who have lower environmental standards, lower animal welfare legislation and lower taxes than those in Sweden.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-472	Madam President, I would like I don't think this makes any sense. It makes no sense that this is the case. The question is, what does the Minister think? Depending on his opinion, what does he intend to do to deal with it?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-473	Madam President, I would like A large part of the response from the Minister for Rural Development is about the forthcoming food strategy and the ongoing work being processed in that perspective. It will be very interesting to look at the concrete proposals in a few weeks and months' time and see what it means in the short and longer term for competitiveness and development opportunities for Swedish agriculture and not least for the milk industry. We listened to the Minister for Rural Development's description of the state of the industry in Sweden. I hope it was a neutral picture that was reproduced, because it was not much of a crisis consciousness. The fact that there are other countries that may be in a worse position is not something that takes away the focus on how important it is to work here and now as much as possible to take concrete measures to facilitate the situation. There are no answers to what the government is prepared to do in spring 2016 to concretely here and now provide better conditions in the short term but also in the long term for Swedish milk production. It's probably not much else to wait either. It would be very important and valuable for the Minister for Rural Development to go through in detail and specify what concrete measures the Government has taken and intends to take for the spring of 2016. This can be done on the basis of the completed Competition Investigation presented in spring 2015. There may also be other good ideas on the part of the government that make it easier in practice for dairy businesses. The situation is extremely tough. It is an important rural and entrepreneurial issue. It is also about great values for the Swedish food supply both in peacetime and if we should end up in other situations in the future. What is our readiness? What Swedish production work is there to lean against if something should happen? That is something that we are really discussing in total defence planning and in civilian preparedness linked to the defence issues we have to deal with. Here agriculture and Swedish food production are an extremely important and central part. Vulnerability is great today. With a gradual decline in Swedish production, dependence on the outside world is increasing. Here are also more questions than the answers. On behalf of the Center Party, we will continue to monitor this and work towards constructively contributing to good proposals and good decisions that have an impact. We have previously been looking at the reimbursement of diesel costs and other things. It is also about continuing to focus on regulatory simplification and to have clarity and predictability when it comes to the management of EU grants and support. Cost increases must not affect the industry any further. We really need to ensure that there are proposals and measures that provide a more favourable situation. It is also about the possibility of financing investments. A great many people in the dairy industry today are working hard to obtain capital for new investments. It is also about investments that could strengthen both production and the economy in the business.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-480	Madam President, I would like The Alliance government, led by the Ministry of Finance, pushed some years ago for an increase in the effective diesel tax of SEK 600 million, which must also be seen as a mistake afterwards. Few tractors have been converted to renewable operation. For the more than 98 per cent of Sweden's farmers who have conventional tractors, 15 per cent of the total net income of agriculture goes to the much more expensive fuels that Swedish farmers have compared to other EU farmers, despite the 10–20 øre reduction per litre that the Minister managed to fight for. That's good, but it's not enough in any way. Milk production involves high fuel costs. A reduction in diesel taxes or their return to levels ten years ago would bring agriculture around half a billion SEK per year, which I think should be done as soon as possible. It's a plus estimate for society. Without dairy farmers and other farmers, the state does not receive any taxes from them or any food industry that provides jobs. Other countries are acting. There hasn't been much going on. The government did not support the Center Party's proposal for lower diesel taxes or for the EU to contribute temporarily to reducing surpluses. Will the government support voluntary production restrictions or use the possibility of open national aid? Will the diesel tax be significantly reduced? Will the environmental programme be used for targeted environmental payments to dairy farms? That is a lot of questions, Minister. But here comes advertising: On 15 April there will be new interpellation debates on this. The Minister has plenty of time to think this through and answer in detail the questions I have asked in that interpellation.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-486	Madam President, I would like I cannot thank the Minister for the answer, but I look forward to it in the next round. The Minister said in his speech that we should not focus on regulations. But it is difficult not to do so in the situation we are in. We see that for a year most other countries in Europe have increased their production while Swedish farmers have reduced their weight by 3%. It is clear that we must then think about what has gone wrong and what it is that makes us unable to compete. The regulatory framework is part of this. Unfortunately, we see today that there is rather little trust from the state and the authorities in the ability and willingness of entrepreneurs to work with animal welfare and to carry out environmental work in a good way. We could certainly do a great deal on our part, on the political side, in reducing the regulatory burden. A concrete example of this is the proposal for regulatory relief in the grazing requirement presented today by the Swedish Board of Agriculture. I hope the government will support it. One important issue is the pressure on costs. It is great that the government has realised that there is a high tax burden and that it wants to make reliefs. Perhaps I would have preferred the government to have supported the Center Party's proposal to lower for all companies, and not just for one-man entrepreneurs, for the first employee. But all the steps are good. There is a call for concrete measures. I would like to come back to the concrete measure that I see as relevant and possible for the government to implement. There is a window: on 1 July there is the possibility of submitting a new proposal on a map for the LFA areas to the Commission. Based on annual average temperatures instead of average temperatures over a period of time, a much better outcome would be achieved.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-492	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for all the answers. Thank you also to the bourgeois debaters for giving us the opportunity to debate these important issues. I'll answer some questions. During eight years of the years between 2005 and 2015, the Alliance ruled. That's when half the country's dairy farmers disappeared. In my municipality, almost 45 of the beer farmers have disappeared since the 1980s. Today we have three left. That this would be something that is suddenly beginning to happen now that we have a S-led government is not true. It must be made clear that it is fortunate that we now have a new government. What would have happened if the alliance government had continued? They had already quit. They did not give priority to the development of the new agricultural programme. It wasn't even ready and filed. It is in this situation that we are now sitting. It was no better, Madam President, for the Swedish democrats to lay hooks both for us and for the dairy farmers. I'm sure you didn't mean for your own alliance budget to come into effect. This also meant that there was, among other things, less money for the Swedish Board of Agriculture to work with the new subsidies. It was less money for biogas investments. This is the way you can find new bones to stand on – that farmers can also produce their own fuel. Madam President, I would like Me and my comrades have visited two new farmers in Virestad, Kronoberg. Johanna and Martin started a dairy farm during a burning milk crisis. Of course it's tough. The co-sponsors they want to do are above all that the regulatory simplifications reach out to the farm and do not stay on the county boards, at LRF or at the Swedish Board of Agriculture. You have to make sure they reach out. They also want to ensure that farmers can benefit from payments for grazing animals. I get a little worried when I hear Edward Riedl insinuating that it would be reduced demands that would help Swedish dairy farmers – that it would be a poorer animal welfare that would somehow help Swedish milk production. It's not like that. We also have a meat production that is strengthened, and it is important for farmers to have more bones to stand on. Today, the Swedish meat is of high quality and on the rise. This is because consumers have become aware that our Swedish farmers deliver quality. This is something that consumers are asking for. This is not the first time the price of milk has been low. But there is also another thing that policy now has to work on, and we will do so through the food strategy. It is strange that Arla lowers prices to farmers while all consumers asked say that they want to pay more for Swedish milk. Then there is something quite obviously crazy, and then together we need to produce regulations and labelling so that consumers can make the right choice. More farmers may also have to start their own dairies and develop their own brands so that the customer and the consumer can make a choice. The customer wants to pay for quality. Arla obviously doesn't want to pay the farmers, but the customers want to pay for the milk.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-501	Madam President, I would like I'll try to answer all the questions now. I don't think you, Magnus Oscarsson, would have expected to get some answers about the WAP tonight. You can't. As far as EU aid is concerned, however, we should remember that of 9 billion was already paid out at the beginning of January 7 billion. Most of this money is paid out in March, April and May. About 200 – 300 million will be left until November. Please note that most of the money is paid out! Sweden is among the five best countries in the EU-28 on paying out money despite the fact that, when we took office, we had an extremely sloppy CAP application with 333 outstanding issues. I promise you, it worked day and night at the Department and the Board of Agriculture to get this through. That's it. They have also worked day and night to get as much money as possible. The ambition is to be able to pay out a record amount of money in 2016 already in October of this year's support. Okay, there will be a little bit of 2015 support in November. Edward Riedl is asking about public procurement. The government is currently working on a new law on public procurement, which should be able to impose requirements on criteria for environmental considerations, animal welfare and more that should be able to benefit Swedish products in a completely different way than before. We have also put a new authority in place – a procurement authority that will support the public in order to be able to procure the products that we all hope will be traded. Edward Riedl asks what further deterioration there will be. Is there any more on the diesel tax? When your party colleague Anders Borg was Minister of Finance, the diesel tax was increased considerably twice. The reduction in diesel tax to farmers was significantly reduced four times. What does the Competitiveness Investigation say? The biggest dilemma for Swedish farmers' competitiveness is diesel tax costs. What has the Red-Green Cooperation Government started with? We have started to turn back, but it is not so easy to turn back any amount when you handed over an economy with minus 67 billion. It's not that easy. V i has started on the journey, but it's tough. Daniel Bäckström asked about the exemption of interest. Different countries have different models. We are fully co-financing the national envelope, and it is far from all the EU countries that have done so. We have neighbouring countries close to us that do not co-finance a single crown. We chose to co-finance 100%. Don't just focus on regulations, because then we'll never solve the problem. Daniel Bäckström also wondered what measures we are taking. Then read the minutes! I've listed what we've done once, and I won't do it twice. Staffan Danielsson said that we are dependent on imports. Yes, we are very dependent on imports. I participated in the exercise many years ago on a national food strategy. Unfortunately, the alliance government rejected the proposal for several years in succession. Now we have started a food strategy. I will come back to further questions.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-514	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Isak From that I have never ever said that all the misery on this earth is the fault of the Social Democrats. But you can never get away from the fact that you are in charge of this country right now. Last year came the Competitiveness Investigation that many had been waiting for. It showed you what you should do. It showed that one of the biggest concerns for Swedish dairy farmers is that they must not compete on the same terms as other EU farmers. The state has put a large backpack on each Swedish dairy farmer's back. In that backpack there is higher diesel tax and other higher excise duties. There are regulations that only exist in Sweden, like grazing requirements. There is also a bureaucracy that is terrible and costly. A farmer told me yesterday when I visited Norra Sandsjö in Nässjö municipality: Every morning when I wake up I think of which law or rule I will break that day. That's how detailed it is, and that's how complicated it is to be a farmer today. It's not supposed to be like that. The Minister for Rural Development and those of us who sit here as Members must create confidence in the future for our Swedish dairy farmers. What does the Minister intend to do to ease the extra burden on Swedish dairy farmers? And will the government take on the proposal of the Competitiveness Investigation and ensure that there are not only words but also actions?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-519	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister and the other interpellers for a good and important debate. Unfortunately, I miss some of the answers from the Minister that are needed to deal with the milk crisis that we are facing. I tried to say clearly that it's not all this government's fault-- it might be nice to know when you're sitting over there at Rosenbad and having your meetings-- but you're in charge right now. Five Swedish dairy producers a week stop their activities due to a lack of profitability. It is not a lack of profitability because you would be less efficient or less good, but it is because you have been burdened by politicians with some things that are difficult to handle. That is what Isak From raises in his debate where he deliberately tries to misinterpret me as if I wanted less animal protection. That is absolutely not what I have said. I do not know if my colleague Isak From may have listened poorly, but what I am trying to explain is that perhaps Europe's best animal welfare and toughest environmental requirements have a price tag. This price pays Swedish dairy farmers in terms of lower competitiveness than the European colleagues. That's what it's all about. It is not a question of reducing animal welfare rules, reducing environmental requirements or anything else in that situation, but this results in a lack of competitiveness in Sweden. Then the question is, how do we deal with it? The minister had a very high tone. It may well be worth reminding anyone who listens to the fact that the government represented by the Minister actually took over one of Europe's most well-managed economies. Even today, you can actually act. Madam President, I would like to inform the Minister of that. Public procurement can already be conducted in municipalities and county councils according to the Swedish environmental protection rules and with Swedish animal welfare requirements. So what the Minister wants to do is perfectly feasible today.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-525	Madam President, I would like I'd like to take this opportunity to sum up a little bit. One of the proposals mentioned in the reply from the Minister for Rural Development is the announced reduction in employers' contributions on 1 January 2017. It would be interesting to hear the Minister for Rural Development describe what concrete effects he expects it to have for Sweden's milk producers specifically. Otherwise, we'll follow up on what it's going to be. The Minister for Rural Development points out that Sweden is one of the five best EU countries when it comes to paying EU aid on time. Yes, it may be a way of misleading rhetorical and shifting the focus from failure to pay out before the end of the year, preferably in November December, to March April and for some grants and support even later, towards the end of the year. To say that one is among the five best is a measure, but it is not a measure for Swedish production. The situation now requires focus, leadership from the government and initiative. If more farms are knocked out, which is unfortunately the scenario now, it will continue to affect the availability of small calves for meat production and biodiversity with fewer grazing animals and insects and the recycling of agricultural areas. This will have a very negative impact on the Swedish countryside. It is a good thing that the Minister for Rural Development and the Government are now focusing on what measures in the Competitiveness Investigation they actually intend to put forward proposals for. One of the questions that has not yet been answered came from Kristina Yngwe. How does the government intend to deal with the LFA issue in terms of compensatory and national aid? The question has been asked several times in this debate, and we repeat it and expect an answer. Thank you for the debate.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-530	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Edward Riedl that grazing animals in our meadows provide added value. It brings added value that makes consumers want to pay a little more. In fact, it also adds value to the dairy farmer, because it is the dairy cows that feed the calves, and the bull calves go directly to meat production. The dairy cows also usually go to meat production then, when they have stopped milking. That's what we need to take care of. Consumers will not choose Swedish if we have the same requirements as the rest of Europe. It is the better requirements that bring added value. I agree with Daniel Bäckström on the environmental benefit, the environmental objective Open Landscapes. If we don't have grazing animals in our meadows, they'll grow again. Then we'll have other troubles. So we must help each other. I have visited a number of dairy farmers in Västerbotten, especially in Bjurholm where there are some functional generational changes. What you have to take away from there is that the biggest concern is that the banks are not interested. Another concern is that the farmers who want to take over cannot get to all the land because old farmers remain on the land support. It is more important to retain rent subsidies than to give new farmers the opportunity to take over. That's what politics has to do in front of it. The biggest revenge today is that we can't handle the generational change. There are many young people who want to take over and work for Swedish countryside.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-534	Madam President, I would like I'll try to answer all the questions. I concluded with the National Food Strategy, Staffan Danielsson. When Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister on 3 October 2014, he read the Government Declaration in the Chamber. He then said that Sweden should have a national food strategy. It's a great and important thing. As far as loan guarantees are concerned, we worked very intensively, on proposals from the industry, trying to find a model that could work. However, the EU acquis and solvency rules put an end to it. So we did not want to launch it. We were in complete agreement with the bank and the industry that it was not possible. With regard to the Competitiveness Investigation and the diesel tax, it was worthwhile that Eskil set up the Competitiveness Investigation. But it also revealed that what the alliance government did was devastating for Swedish agriculture, to make such large differences in diesel tax costs. That's what we've started to graze now. Staffan Danielsson then says that I must bring the Minister for Finance with me. Eskil didn't bring the Minister for Finance. I hope he tried. But Eskil's Minister of Finance said he didn't believe in Swedish production farming. Now we have a finance minister who believes that. Read the list I read out! Count it up! Already billions have been added to Swedish agriculture. I don't think I have time for all of Kristina Y ngwe's questions. There have been 19 million more for the Norrland peasants. Not since 97 - 98 has the Norrland aid been fully utilised. And three-quarters of the Norrland peasants are winners. There are those who are losers. But we've minimized it to a maximum of 12 cents. And we're looking over the map to make it better. But it is definitely the first time since the 1990s that the Norrland aid has been fully utilised. Thank you for a good debate! I believe in Swedish agriculture and Swedish dairy farmers.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-543	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that exercises with Patriot in Sweden are carried out. Swedish authorities conduct a continuous dialogue with their American counterparts on the design of exercises and other collaborations and on how we can further develop these activities. The Government decides on the Swedish Armed Forces' participation in exercises after presentation from the agency. No request for exercise activities linked to the anti-aircraft system Patriot on Swedish territory has been received.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-545	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Hultqvist, for the answer to my interpellation! The background to the interpellation is a statement by the head of the United States Army Forces in Europe, General Ben Hodges. A few weeks ago he stated in the Swedish media that he would soon like to see exercises where the anti-aircraft system Patriot was added and deployed on Swedish territory. The purpose of the exercise would be to prepare for a defence of the Baltic countries in the event of an armed conflict in our neighbourhood. Madam President, I would like Ben Hodge's statement is, of course, linked to the scenario that the Rand Institute in the United States came out with a few months ago. They had outlined what a possible defence of the Baltic countries could be like. In Rand's example, four American combat aircraft divisions based on Swedish soil were, hear and behold. There is probably a great deal of consensus on the fact that Sweden has a great deal of interest in terms of the possibilities of defending Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. And the offer made by General Ben Hodges is in line with the Memorandum of Understanding with NATO on host country support which is currently on the table of Parliament and which the government has proposed. It is also fully in line with the unilateral Swedish declaration of solidarity that we have made, not only against the EU but also against the Nordic countries. I would argue that this is a logical consequence of the security policy – that security is built together with others – that both the alliance government and the current government have pursued. Now the Minister for Defence says that there has been no formal request from the US or NATO for any exercise with Patriot based in Sweden. I believe that the Minister for Defence also realises that this kind of request will never be made unless the person who makes it feels completely convinced that he will receive a positive response. Madam President, I would like Now that the Minister has noted that the request has not been received, my logical follow-up question is: how will the government react if such a formal request is actually received?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-551	Madam President, I would like I don't usually speculate on different types of possible exercises or different types of possible scenarios. I usually try to start from the factual realities that exist. If an exercise is to be conducted, we should prepare it in advance and then be prepared to stand for it. Now we've got information through a TV show. I have also been asked in various contexts how to comment on this. I simply note that no such request has been made to Sweden. As far as the transatlantic link is concerned, we have a parliamentary decision indicating that we should work together in terms of interoperability, international operations, materials, exercise activities and research. These are the five points we have said. We have made it clear that the transatlantic link is important for the balance in Europe and in relation to Russia. We have noted that we are developing our military cooperation capability. We have also noted that we have a new security policy relationship by Russia's annexation of Crimea and thus disrupting the European security regime. All this is the basis for the changed strategy for Swedish defence development. We will enhance our military capabilities and deepen our cooperation. It is also about our neighbours. It's about Finland. It is about the Baltic countries, Poland and the Nordic countries. It is about a European perspective, a transatlantic perspective and the partnership with NATO. Well, that's pretty much how we work. It is the policy that has the majority in Parliament, and that is what we are implementing. To comment on a planned exercise that has not been prepared in the department, however, I do not.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-557	Madam President, I would like Now, the head of the U.S. army forces in Europe is not just any sub-officer. It has to be assumed that this was well thought out and probably politically based on the US, so it is probably not exactly a whim. When this is made public, it points to the strong will of the United States and NATO, and it also points to a very great need. As the Minister for Defence was concerned, we are now living in a time of increased tension in our neighbourhood. I think the Secretary of Defense made a good review of what should worry us. It is quite clear that such an exercise would strengthen our bilateral relations with the United States, our transatlantic link. It would also develop Sweden's combat forces and abilities in various ways. When you listen to what the Minister of Defence says about building security with others, it is almost like a confirmation, as an extrapolation, of what I say. A Swedish positive attitude to such a proposition is fully in line with the policy pursued by the current government and carried out by the previous government. It is fully in line with both the Memorandum of Understanding with NATO and the Declaration of Solidarity between the EU and the Nordic countries. When the Minister for Defence formulates himself in the way he does, I feel that he is fundamentally in favour of increased cooperation with NATO and with the United States, with which we have special bilateral relations. I hope that those who listen to this debate will come to exactly the same conclusion as I do. Such a talk would of course be warmly welcomed by the Swedish Government. With that, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-562	Madam President, I would like I can only say that in the defence decision we said that there will be an operation on Gotland with about 300 soldiers. There will also be anti-aircraft exercises in that area, and this was carried out last autumn. It is a priority measure under the defence decision, and we will continue to work on that. The positioning done on Gotland also has bearings on the Baltic states. Control of maritime and airspace in that area is, of course, something that has a direct impact on the Baltic States. As for the exercise in question, I have said what I have to say. I would therefore like to thank you for the debate.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-564	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to inform the Parliament of the detailed arrangements for the acquisition of the NGU and what measures I intend to take to ensure the acquisition of NGU to Sweden in the event that no export of the submarine is made. The Government has informed the Riksdag about the Swedish acquisition of next generation submarines in, among other things, the spring supplementary budget 2010. Given that the state's agreements with industry are subject to both defence secrecy and commercial secrecy, I cannot comment on the conditions for the acquisition in further detail here. The combined underwater capacity is an important safety interest for Sweden, as the previous government already stated in the spring 2014 amending budget. This assessment was then the basis for the procurement of the next generation submarine and Saab's purchase of the Kockum shipyard from Thyssen Krupp in June 2014. It is now in our common interest that we can secure national underwater capacity in the long term. Underwater capability is an important strategic ability to protect Sweden and to maintain our military capabilities and supply lines during both peace and crisis times. I assume that the authorities and industry will do their utmost to keep the financial framework decided by the government last summer and that the next generation of submarines will be delivered on time.
i-VBaqoELk7xB7YJC5xBNeNf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation! About twelve years ago Sweden was in a situation where we had ordered six corvettes of the type Visby. But at that time it became apparent that the financial framework for that project had been blown up by far. The result was that instead of ordering six corvettes, Sweden ordered five corvettes and equipment for a sixth corvette. Madam President, I would like I mentioned this as an example of how material procurement works. If the financial framework is not kept, the acquisition itself will be put at risk. Now the Government says that the state's agreements with industry are subject to both defence secrecy and commercial confidentiality and that he cannot further comment on the prerequisites for procurement in detail here. It is a formulation that suggests that the Minister for Defence may nevertheless consider informing the Defence Committee of the reservations and conditions that apply to the Swedish acquisition of two submarines of the next generation. If Peter Hultqvist is willing to inform the Committee on Defence, possibly under professional secrecy, my question will be: Why has the Minister of Defence been at least half a dozen times to the Committee on Defence – since the government decided to acquire the two submarines this summer – without telling us about the conditions and reservations that apply to procurement? Madam President, I would like I am also a little surprised by the reference to defence secrecy and commercial secrecy. Now the Defence Committee received this information from the Swedish Armed Forces who had apparently made their own assessment that there were no reasons for confidentiality. Finally, I was a little amazed at the wording of the Minister's reply at the end of his reply. He writes that he assumes that the authorities and industry will do their utmost to keep the financial framework decided by the government last summer. The assumption that Swedish authorities will do their best to keep the financial framework is quite normal. But surely the industry cannot be bound by such hopes. When we have concluded agreements with industry on the acquisition of two submarines, I assume that we have established the way in which this is to be done and the framework that applies in an agreement. Then it is just a matter of being commercial and claiming that agreements entered into apply. I do not understand what the Minister for Defence means by his appeal to the Swedish industry. It consists of limited liability companies, and they are accountable to their owners to maximize their profits. They have no other purpose.
i-AVYnDuuY19qeTp5UnH6oyR	Madam President, I would like The Parliament decided 2 010 on what can be called a basic authorisation. This involved the acquisition of two submarines as compensation for two submarines of Sörmland class and the mid-term modification of two submarines in Gotland class. The financial framework is not parliamentary. On the other hand, the government must remain within the financial authorisation framework set out for all investments. Over the years, the process has also been described in the budget proposals submitted. On 19 March 2015, the government decided on the position of two submarines for a maximum of 8.2 billion. It was the government that established the framework, not the parliament. The government decision says: In connection with half-yearly and full-year financial reports, the Swedish Armed Forces will report a follow-up to the acquisition. The report shall include any material deviations, such as quality, quantity and delivery mode compared to the planning that formed the basis for the Government's procurement decision. In addition, measures taken to address any delays and costs incurred shall be reported. Cost increases shall be compensated by reductions in ambition so that the overall financial framework can be maintained. ..................................................... As Widman talks in other contexts about how defence equipment can develop in terms of cost – and I think it is also true that the industry can be a part of this – I think it is important that this kind of marking has been made in the government decision that has been taken. The framework that lies is what we believe should apply, and that is what the agreement is about. My firm opinion is that the government has acted within the limits of the appropriations given by Parliament, and that is the position we have informed in different contexts.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-579	Madam President, I would like My question remains. Does the Government intend to inform the Riksdag of the reservations and conditions that apply to the acquisition of the two Swedish submarines? That question has in no way been answered so far, I think. It is important to recall that the specialization decision taken last summer by the Riksdag states that we will acquire two copies of the next generation submarine, the NGU – A26, as it is also called. There are no reservations whatsoever. However, the general rule that applies, as the Minister of Defence has just read out, is that cost increases must be taken within the framework, i.e. by lowering requirements qualitatively or quantitatively. That's what makes me so worried. There are strong rumours in town that the cost frameworks that apply to this project will not last at all. Well, let's get back to it and see what it looks like. But when one makes oneself dependent on export, there are of course risks that can result in that we do not get two new Swedish submarines for the Swedish defence. With regard to the expectations of exporting submarines to other countries, Madam President, it is probably the case that such purchases in other countries take a very long time. If we cannot now see any evidence that Parliament in Europe or elsewhere is dealing with the issue of the acquisition of Swedish submarines, there is probably much to suggest that such exports may not be able to occur. Suddenly, Madam President, we are in a situation where the development costs of this highly advanced underwater platform cannot be shared with any other country and must be borne by Sweden and its taxpayers themselves. If that is what the Minister for Defence says, that in that case you may reduce the quantity or quality, the end result is that Sweden does not acquire two submarines without 1.5 or 1.3 submarines. And that would be the given state of our near world right now very unfortunate.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-583	Madam President, I would like There is no condition for the acquisition of these submarines. As regards JAS Gripen E, the Swedish acquisition was bound to another country to acquire Gripen. There is no such condition for the acquisition of submarines. The government has moved within the framework of the appropriations we have, that is, the authorisation I have given for 2010. Then, of course, we are looking for partners when it comes to both this production and other productions. Exports are fundamentally positive. It is fundamentally positive to be able to develop different types of defence equipment together with other countries. We are actively working to find partners. But it's not the same as having to listen to rumors in town. I am not going to enter into any discussion about 1, 2, 1.5 or 1.8 submarines either, but I am starting from the decisions that have been made and expect delivery according to them. That's the focus. Then it's always the case in this kind of big business and big productions that you get in situations that you possibly have to handle in different ways, but you have to take a stand on that then. If you choose to speculate, listen to rumors and think about such things, you can eventually sneeze yourself into a deeply conspiratorial world. You can even be wrong in part.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-587	Madam President, I would like Now it's not just rumors on the town. The committee has been properly informed on this matter by senior representatives of the Swedish Armed Forces. Now the Secretary of Defense says that our acquisition is not conditional on export. That makes me ask the question, Madam President: if there is no export, how will it affect the price of the submarines that Sweden intends to procure? Madam President, I would like I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that this acquisition of submarines is included in the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base, which came on 28 February this year. The Swedish Armed Forces requested the acquisition of JAS 39E for a financing calculation in which several of the parameters included are outside the Swedish Armed Forces' influence. There is therefore a great risk that other necessary material purchases will be affected if major changes occur in the calculation. – – – The corresponding conditions also apply to some other major or strategic material projects as well as to projects related to essential security interests. The Swedish Armed Forces also ask the Government to decide on a special price and salary recalculation for the acquisition of a new submarine system. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This shows that the Swedish Armed Forces are clearly concerned about the development of costs in the acquisition of submarines that Sweden has made. My question on this point to the Minister for Defence will be: Will the Swedish Armed Forces be satisfied with a special price and salary recalculation when it comes, for example, to the acquisition of a new submarine system, so that the other activities can be held harmless?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-591	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you that the wording of the city was originally Allan Widman's own. He's not gonna try to push me on that one. I just said you shouldn't listen too much to rumors in town. To make this very clear: The acquisition of submarines cannot be equated with the acquisition of JAS 39 Gripen E, where the Swedish acquisition was bound by parliament to another country to acquire Gripen. There is no such condition for the acquisition of submarines. That's what it looks like. I am not going to go into anything that approaches the form of a concrete agreement, as this is covered by confidentiality. However, Mr Widman's questions are approaching that point. It is my responsibility to be able to distinguish between what is open information and what is not. That is why I am not going to confirm information that has been mentioned in various contexts. We will have to work on this issue in the years to come. I have said in various contexts that we can certainly expect changes, increases and other events with regard to our equipment projects. It will not be great news that this can happen, as it is something we have experienced over the years in many different types of projects. I also see in front of me that we need to work on this project, and then I think it's just as well to say that it's very important that everyone involved pulls in the same direction. In this case, it is a matter of not putting oneself in a situation where the arrangements made for the cost framework break.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-595	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take with regard to the defence grant so that the Swedish military defence can be manned during the defence decision-making period. The single most important thing during the defence orientation period up to 2020 is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. As the government stated in connection with the defence policy orientation decision in 2015, there are challenges with regard to the Armed Forces' personnel supply system, which leads to a continued need for reform. The Swedish Armed Forces' evidence indicates, among other things, that there are significant challenges and uncertainties regarding the possibility of fully staffing the armed forces with personnel. Against this background, the government has taken a number of measures. Among other things, the Government has decided to introduce a new category of personnel into the human resources supply system, consisting of non-employed personnel who are placed in war under the Total Defence Obligations Act. A new longer basic education is introduced in 2016 to enable those who have completed the training to be placed in war. The Government has also decided that the Swedish Armed Forces may call in total defence personnel for refresher training and that during 2016 the Swedish Armed Forces will ensure that the military units are fully staffed with war-placed personnel. In addition, the Government has set up an investigation to propose a long-term sustainable supply of personnel for the military defence. The investigator shall be based on the needs of the war organisation and the Swedish Armed Forces' recruitment force and, among other things, propose an appropriate balance between duty and voluntary activity, as well as how the production capacity of the Swedish Armed Forces and other relevant authorities should be adapted. Increased use of the obligation of total defence should complement voluntary action when the needs of the war organisation cannot be safeguarded by voluntary recruitment alone. Dedicated goat shall be reported by 30 September 2016 at the latest.
i-HNos22A5xgcN5n6PHWWiDW	In addition to the budget base on 31 March 2016, the Authority withdrew the proposal in the part relating to a transfer to the appropriation for the acquisition of equipment and installations. The base is now being analysed in the Government Office. The Government will take a position on the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base in connection with the budget proposal for 2017.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-600	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to the interpellation is that according to the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base for 2015, basic military training with 4 650 recruits would have been carried out. The recent annual report for 2015 shows an outcome of 2 214 such training programmes. The result was thus slightly less than half of the target set. Consequently, for the first time in a very long time, the number of officers and soldiers employed in the army forces decreased last year. Despite the fact that the basic training activities decreased sharply, the Swedish Armed Forces nevertheless made a minor over-endowment. It becomes quite obvious to an outside viewer that the Swedish Armed Forces will not be able to fill up with employed soldiers by 2020 and that the financial planning of the agency may not be focused on this either. I feel that I receive some support from the Minister for Defence when he notes that the Swedish Armed Forces' evidence is indicating, among other things, that there are significant challenges and uncertainties regarding the possibility of fully manning the armed forces with personnel. The Minister for Defence refers, among other things, to an ongoing investigation into the supply of personnel that is now in the defence sector and is about looking at how to weigh off a so-called mixed system where volunteering is combined with some form of duty. It is absolutely right that the mission should be reported on 30 September this year, but as far as I understand, the investigation has not been given a mandate to look at any legislative changes. At the same time, I hear both the Minister for Defence and his fellow party talk not about the old total defence duty but about a new modern duty. My question is this: is it the view of the Minister for Defence that the legislation will also have to be reviewed in a special investigation after the current investigation has completed its work? As the Minister for Defence pointed out, the Swedish Armed Forces, which only a month ago proposed to transfer money from the unit operations to, among other things, the supply of equipment, has now withdrawn the proposal. It's a little surprising. Madam President, I would like When you look at the supplementary budget base that came on 31 March, you can see that the withdrawal is conditional on the dissolution of another budget in the field of defence, namely 1:4, and that money from there can be transferred to, among other things, the equipment budget, where we know that the risks lie in the coming years. In other words, it can be said that the effect that was to be achieved with the proposal that was put forward by the Swedish Armed Forces a month ago is now achieved by dissolving appropriations 1:4 and transferring money from there to the supply of equipment. In the Agency's financial planning, we can see that the acquisition of equipment after the dissolution of appropriations 1:4 is reinforced by almost 2 billion in 2017.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-608	Madam President, I would like With regard to the investigation that the government has set up, the directives provide for an increased use of the obligation of total defence and how duty can be used to ensure recruitment when voluntary activity is not enough. That is the initial value on which the investigation is based. The party I represent has been critical of the current staff supply system ever since it was introduced. We have pointed out a wide range of shortcomings, and many of the problems we have pointed out have also come to light. Since we came to the government, a new category of personnel has been introduced into the personnel supply system consisting of non-employed personnel who are placed in war under the Law on Total Defence Obligations, so-called GSS/P. A new longer basic education is introduced in 2016 to enable those who have completed the training to be placed in war. The Government has also decided that the Swedish Armed Forces may call total defence personnel for refresher training, which has also been carried out. The Government has decided that during 2016 the Swedish Armed Forces will ensure that war units are fully staffed with war-placed personnel. It is about concrete placements and that individuals are told about their war placement orders. In addition to this, we have the review or investigation carried out under Annika Nordgren Christensen's leadership, which will be presented at the end of August. It is based on the fact that we believe that the current system does not hold up according to the calculations that were originally made. We do not believe that bandage filling is the right one, and we do not believe that the stability of the system is as it should be. We therefore conclude that something has to happen, why we have given directives to look at the Norwegian and Danish mixed systems, which are particularly interesting and where a professional organisation is combined with a duty. I will not anticipate the investigation, but we will have to come back after August when we have received the investigator's results and start from that. As regards the budget base and the corrections that have been made to it by the Swedish Armed Forces and the decisions taken by the Swedish Armed Forces, I can only say that these are things that are being prepared in the Government Office. We will evaluate the proposals that exist and come back to the budget proposal. That is how we will continue to work on this. I can only say that it is interesting that Allan Widman is very clear in the debate, even in previous debates, that he is keen to erase the kind of decision that the previous bourgeois government was behind and that he wants to help pave the way for a new, more stable staff supply system. I would particularly like to thank you for that, as a point of view. I hope, without prejudging anything now, that we will eventually be able to have a broad majority in Parliament in order to stabilise the system. I think it's necessary. It is primarily a question of basic military capabilities.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-617	Madam President, I would like I think Peter Hultqvist's answer is satisfactory in the sense that the direction of a reformed staff supply seems to be logical and correct. However, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, this is what is usually termed a delay in law. When I listen to representatives of the Swedish Armed Forces – and high-ranking representatives of that authority – I hear how one has a focus on being able to launch a complementary duty system somewhere around 2020, that is, after the current defence decision-making period has expired. That is what makes me ask the question whether further investigations will be required after Annika Nordgren Christensen is finished. She has not been given a mandate to propose any legislative changes. Nevertheless, I hear both the Minister for Defence and his fellow party speak of a new, modern law of duty. All in all, I am very concerned that, for many years to come, we will not be able to have a fully usable and man-made defence. It is also clear to me, Madam President, that if we do not achieve more than half of the basic military training that is envisaged in the Swedish Armed Forces and yet cross-appropriation, then there is no room for a fully staffed, voluntary defence in the current defence economy. That is why I ask the Minister for Defence, with regard to the defence appropriations, what measures he is prepared to take to ensure full staffing of military defence. The Liberals, Madam President, took the decision at the country meeting, our highest decision-making body, in November 2015 to work towards a minimum of 2% of GDP in Sweden in the long term. We believe that this is nothing less than what is needed if we are to have our defence staffed and if we are to increase our operational capabilities in the long term. The Minister of Defence is now managing a defence settlement for his own party and four others, and I can see that the financial reinforcements that took place in connection with that decision are being eaten up very quickly by increases in the area of materials, for example. When you make these rockads with the Swedish Armed Forces' grants – a grant for maintenance of materials and transfer money to material acquisition and unit operations – you achieve exactly the same results that you wanted to achieve by bringing money directly from the unit operations to the material procurement, but of course it looked bad that it was proposed by the agency only a few weeks into the new defence decision period. The truth is as it always is: we have in the defence, Mr President, to live with the fact that when we procure equipment we enter into binding agreements with third parties. It's a deal you can't get out of. If the State does not fulfil them, companies may go to court to ensure that compliance is carried out by the State. This situation means that savings are always made on what is currently said to be prioritised by the government, namely basic training activities and basic training of soldiers. This has been the case in history, and judging by the answers I am receiving today, it will remain so in the future as well.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-624	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the instrument of duty, I would just like to remind you that it is the government that has the decision – not the parliament. As far as the danger of delay is concerned, I have often debated the question of the pace of the possible introduction of a new system with Widman. Now it was 2020 that someone had an idea. When the investigation is presented in August, it is time to discuss the practical circumstances and possible timetables. Let us return to that question. It's important to me that when you implement this type of change it should work– there should be no haste, and there should be no joy calculations. That was the case with the current staff supply system, and that is why we are here today. That is not how we should do it again, but we should do it thoroughly and carefully and make it work. I am not making any promises about any precise dates or any precise transport route to change this, but we will come back to that when we have all the facts on the table. But I am well aware that we must do this at such a pace that we really have stability in the system. Then it is not possible to wait indefinitely or drag it out unnecessarily, but then you have to be able to make decisions. I repeat that I hope for broad support once we get to that point. With regard to the future economy of a possible such system, we will have to discuss this also when we have come up with all the facts on the table and when we can make calculations, see different scopes and start discussing numeraries and systems, what it should look like. We'll have to get back to you then. When it comes to going up to 2% of GDP, I can only say that it takes 40 to 50 billion. That is an enormous amount of money, and it must be produced in some way. I am simply saying that this is an enormous ambition that is difficult to realise. Then it's also a matter of putting things up so that you really manage to deliver – it's at least as important as getting money into the system. As far as the various armed forces' analyses of their money, accounts and appropriations are concerned, I can only say that the Authority has made its proposals. We will assess them and come back later in the budget proposal.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-631	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Defence realises that the uncertainty that we are now living with is actually a matter of urgency to get the staffing of the defence on the ground. I will also say as chairman of the Defence Committee that it is with satisfaction that I read that the government is now demanding the authority to make war deployments in full by the war organisation in 2016. In fact, there is still quite a lot of resources left in what is called the conscription magazine. I am convinced that I will bring the rest of the Committee on Defence with me on a follow-up to what the Minister of Defence is now promising, namely full staffing of the Swedish War Organization in 2016. The Secretary of Defense obviously does not want to answer a question. It is quite right, Mr President, that it is the government, five ministers, who alone can decide to reactivate the Swedish total defence duty. That's all it really takes. But now Peter Hultqvist and his colleagues are talking about another kind of duty, a modern duty. I regard this as something other than the obligation of total defence which is currently enshrined in dormant legislation. That is why I will come back to whether Annika Nordgren Christensen's investigation must be followed up with a new investigation that also looks at changes to the Total Defence Obligations Act. If that is to happen, Mr President, I see in front of me that we do not have a mixed system in Swedish defence until somewhere beyond 2020, and I consider that to be a risk taking in the current world situation. I thank the Minister for Defence for the debate.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-635	Mr President, I would like to I have responded to this earlier with a total defence obligation, but I repeat: we have set up an investigation into the increased use of the total defence obligation – as I said earlier – starting from it and how duty can be used to ensure recruitment when volunteering is not enough. So we are basing ourselves on the obligation of total defence.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-636	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte has asked me how I see the use of resources in the economy increasing significantly over the next three years, but the deficits are holding fast. In addition, he has asked me if I see a danger in putting Sweden in such a position through a deficit policy in a boom that, once the recession strikes, the public debt risks increasing sharply. When this government took office, there were significant deficits in public finances. In 2014, the general government sector showed a deficit of SEK 61 billion, which was the largest deficit since the 1990s crisis. The unfunded tax reductions carried out by the previous government were a major factor in this relationship. Since the government took office, fiscal policy has changed in a more responsible direction, which has contributed to a sharp reduction in the deficit. At the same time, Sweden is in the middle of the situation to give a secure existence to the large number of people who fled from war, persecution and oppression to Sweden in 2015. This implies unforeseen and, in the short term, inevitable increases in expenditure which temporarily weaken public finances. The government, through the sharp reduction in the deficit in 2015, has significantly improved the conditions for Sweden to be able to meet the expenditure increases without cuts or tax increases. The increase in expenditure places demands on the continuation of public finances. Financial savings shall return to balance and surplus. It is important that there are margins to meet a sharp deterioration in economic development. The Government therefore intends to continue to pursue fiscal policy for the remainder of its term of office, which will help to strengthen savings at a pace that safeguards socio-economic balance without jeopardising sustainability or confidence in public finances.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-640	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing quite well, you have to say. It is very positive for the Swedish people who are to a large extent in work and who feel safe in their personal economy. But it is also a positive statement of strength for the Alliance after nine years of alliance budgets. Because even if the Alliance lost the 2014 elections, we actually got our budget through for 2015. It was only last autumn that the Minister of Finance received a tax increase and a subsidy increase. And above all, it is only after the end of the year, in the last three months, that the policy of the Social Democrats has been applied. The fact that Sweden is doing well and that Sweden's economy is strong is therefore positive for the Swedish people and a decision of strength for the Alliance. Having said that, however, there is still much to be said that we should be concerned about the future. Sweden is unfortunately heading in the wrong direction. We have a government that is pursuing a policy that will make us stand significantly less equipped than we have in previous decades once the recession strikes. In order to have the resources to stimulate the economy in recession, you have to save in prosperity. If you don't, you're going to increase your public debt. If you spend in good times and spend in bad times, you will eventually systematically live over your resources. This is what has hit large parts of Europe and has delivered the sovereign debt crisis that we had a few years ago, when Greece in particular, but also other European countries, was on the verge of bankruptcy. We are now beginning to see this type of irresponsibility in the Swedish government. For decades we have had a regulatory framework with a so-called surplus target, which means that there is a requirement to save in good times. This regulatory framework is still in place, but the government and Magdalena Andersson do not care to maintain it. Although during the election campaign she promised to keep it, she has changed her mind and is now going to work towards phasing out the surplus target, although we just heard from the Finance Minister here that she might want us to return to surplus. If so, that would be a positive response, and the Minister for Finance would be happy to develop this. But that is a new message from the Minister for Finance. This means that Sweden will be less equipped for the future, as the government does not keep track of public finances. On top of that, we have something very worrying. In addition to fiscal policy, that the parliament and government decide to stimulate the economy in recession, they also have monetary policy, which means that in bad times the Riksbank can lower interest rates so that people get lower housing costs and thus more money and more space in their household funds. The Riksbank will probably not have this opportunity in the next recession because, in a boom, we already have a negative interest rate. This places additional demands on the Minister for Finance to take responsibility. She's not. She's doing the exact opposite. This means that although Sweden is doing well, there is much to suggest that we should be very worried about the future. The reason for this is very clear, it is the irresponsible policy of Magdalena Andersson.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-646	Mr President, I would like to After eight years with a moderate-led government, when we saw the deficits increase for each year that was set at the Ministry of Finance, we have now had a turn. We have a government which once again pursues a responsible economic policy and ensures that we are in order in public finances and not borrowing for major tax cuts. That means we've got some room for manoeuvre. It is precisely in order to be able to face unexpected expenditures and events that it has been so important for me as Finance Minister to conduct a tight and responsible economic policy. In a situation where many people have applied for asylum in Sweden, we will, of course, use this room for manoeuvre, so that this fact does not mean that we need to make drastic cuts in welfare or carry out very drastic tax increases. Nor is it something that I hear the economists are asking for. My question to Fredrik Schulte is, of course, whether the Moderates intend to propose substantial cuts or large-scale tax increases to deal with the increased expenditure that many people have applied for asylum in Sweden have contributed to. As far as public finances are concerned, the government has set up a parliamentary inquiry which will now review how to shape the surplus target in public finances in the future. It will be exciting to see what that investigation concludes. My assessment is that it is time to change the target set in the 1990s in a situation where v i had a public debt of over 80% of GDP. But even with a changed surplus target, we should of course return to both balance and surplus in public finances. Even if this committee were to reach a balance target, it should of course also have a balance target in surplus.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-651	Mr President, I would like to During the last two interventions by the Minister for Finance, she has, to be the Minister for Finance, made some rather startling factual errors. She just said that during the time of the Alliance there was a deficit every year. No, the Minister of Finance, it wasn't. She said in her first post that the deficit in 2014 was the biggest since the 1990s crisis. Then I have to ask the Minister of Finance if she is not aware that we had a financial crisis and that in 2009 we had a deficit that was almost three times the size of 2014. Also in 2013, we had a deficit of 131 billion, more than twice as much as we had in 2014. The fact that the Minister of Finance does not keep track of these figures is quite astounding. We also had a recession in 2004 which, if you adjust for inflation, meant a deficit that was almost exactly in line with what we had in 2014. How we can have a finance minister who so flagrantly does not know what the situation is and has looked like in Sweden's public finances is, to say the least, outrageous. It is also shocking that the Minister for Finance is standing here in the speaker's chair trying to show that she has indeed halved the budget deficit. As I said in my opening speech, and as the Minister of Finance should reasonably know, she did not get her budget for 2015 through the Parliament when this so-called halving was carried out. It is great that the Minister of Finance wants to take credit for the Alliance's policy and for the Alliance's budget. That's a good thing. But the fact that she claims that it would be her own policy is, to say the least, stretching the truth. On top of that, Mr President, if we were to look at Sweden's public finances in 2014, if Mona Sahlin had ruled Sweden, and if Magdalena Andersson had been Finance Minister during the last term of office, if we were to sum up the eight years of opposition policy, the Social Democrats wanted us to borrow even more. The difference was that instead of prioritising the borrowed money and the incentives in the way the alliance government did, Magdalena Andersson wanted to increase the contributions significantly. It was something that had permanently excluded and made it unprofitable to work. The picture that Magdalena Andersson is trying to paint of history is not correct, and she is guilty of serious factual errors in the speaker's chair. When the Alliance stepped off government power, Sweden had Europe's strongest public finances. Now the government went out a few days ago and said that it would be given 10 billion more to the municipalities. We have seen that when this has happened in the past it is not always until the welfare money goes. All politicians want to invest in welfare and the municipalities, but Magdalena Andersson is completely ignoring the need to keep public finances in order. If there is a recession, there will be no muscle to parry it, and Magdalena Andersson will thus conduct a policy that does not take responsibility for Sweden in the future.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-662	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte is upset in the usual order. This government is pursuing a responsible economic policy. We take responsibility for public finances in the same way that Social Democratic governments have always done. As Fredrik Schulte has said, it was a financial crisis during moderate government ownership, and Social Democratic criticism is not mainly directed at the policy pursued during the financial crisis. It is not a question of the size of fiscal policy, although we believe that it would have been better to make other efforts in times of crisis than to cut taxes most for those who earn the most. Our criticism is not about the scope of fiscal policy, but about the fact that the loan continued to be subject to major tax cuts at the end of the last term of office despite the upward trend in economic activity. It is not a responsible way of pursuing economic policy. For the third time in modern economic history, a bourgeois government left behind large deficits in public finances. It is a good thing that we have now been able to see a shift in politics and that this government is taking responsibility for public finances. We also see in the projections how the finances are being strengthened as and when. Of course, there is a temporary cost bump because many people applied for asylum. Given Fredrik Schulte's entry into the debate, I wonder whether Fredrik Schulte and the Moderates intend to finance the temporary increase in costs due to asylum immigration via drastic cuts or very sharp tax increases.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-667	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance is locked in talking about what has happened and trying to shift responsibility to the Alliance. On every occasion she gets, she points out that here and here the Alliance was wrong. Magdalena Andersson is now in control. Now she is at the helm at the Ministry of Finance, and now she is responsible for Sweden's economy. The fact remains that we are in a boom, and Magdalena Andersson chooses not to save in these good times. It is not something that I or the Moderates should answer for, but Magdalena Andersson will answer for. That is the policy she pursues. When it is time to present budgets, we from the Moderates will present our option to the Swedish people and to the Riksdag. But already in the budget that we presented last autumn for 2016 we were more restrictive on the part of the Moderates. We will not propose anything but efforts when it comes to welfare issues. The big difference between the right and left in this House, between the Social Democrats and the Moderates, is not the question of welfare but the question of subsidies. Magdalena Andersson's major political achievement will have been the biggest grant increases in at least three decades. She makes it systematically less profitable to work, i.e. increases taxes for those who work to make it more profitable not to work. This is where the big political difference lies and in the view of taking responsibility for Sweden in the future. Magdalena Andersson does not do that when she chooses to waste in good times.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-671	Mr President, I would like to It is a fact that historically many people are on the run in the world and historically many people went to Sweden last autumn to seek asylum. One can of course discuss whether it means a finance minister who is wasting money or whether it means that Sweden has taken a great responsibility for the refugee crisis in the world. Personally, I think that the responsibility that Sweden took on last autumn is something that we should be proud of, although it will of course affect public finances in the near future. This is where I asked Fredrik Schulte my question. In which day Fredrik Schulte's criticism ends, of course, depends on what proposals the Moderates themselves intend to present to the Riksdag. If Fredrik Schulte criticises me for not implementing major cuts and very large tax increases because many people are seeking asylum, and if the Moderates will propose a completely different policy, there is relevance in Fredrik Schulte's criticism. But if the Moderates will not propose very substantial tax increases or cuts of SEK 30 billion, of course Fredrik Schulte's criticism falls flat to the ground.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-673	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me what information I have for the country's old-age pensioners who have been promised reduced taxes and whether I am counting on more similar reforms in the future budget. The government considers that the unfair difference between the taxation of labour income and the taxation of pensions introduced by the moderate-led alliance government should be abolished. In a first step, the government has strengthened the increased basic deduction for older people so that pensioners over 65 years of age are not taxed higher than employees under 65 years of age on income up to approximately SEK 120 000 per year. The increased basic deduction was also reinforced for those with pensions up to SEK 240 000 per year. The government's reform means that with the lowest pensions they pay lower taxes this year than they would if the government did not make the change. The Government's ambition is to take further steps to reduce tax differentials between labour income and pension.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-676	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your answer. I'm not a man who uses harsh words unnecessarily, but if I'm to be honest and straight, it wasn't much of a response. In the 2014 elections, the polemics were tough. Many things were promised from most parties. That's usually the way election moves are. Not least Magdalena Andersson used a rather harsh rhetoric about Sweden's economy in general, and she gave the impression that the barns were empty and Sweden was almost bankrupt – this despite the fact that in many comparative economic figures the OECD has just praised Sweden as an example. It is only to be noted that this has now settled quite well, at least economically, according to the government six months later. One of the promises made in the election campaign was that the situation for pensioners would improve. A clear promise was that pensioners with a pension of up to 20 000 a month, 240 000 a year, would receive a tax relief. But now the Taxpayers' Association, SBF, has concluded that this was not the case. The tax was reduced only for those with a pension of up to 17,000 per month, while all those who were above received increased tax. But the main issue in my interpellation was not this but what the pensioners' total economy looks like after all the pluses and minuses. According to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, our pensioners and senior citizens are affected by the government's increase in the maximum tax rate, a reduction in the tax credit, a reduction in the tax cut-off rate for state taxes, a reduction in RUT and ROT deductions, and a higher cost of hiring people over 65 and, last but not least, that which hits many pensioners, an increase in petrol and diesel taxes. In addition, many municipalities and county councils have increased the tax, which hits all pensioner economies directly. I am not going to blame the government for the increase in municipal taxation, but it still affects the elderly with full force. All of this together means that both pensioners and for that reason many wage earners receive a lower net pension or salary than before. My basic question is: what do the Minister of Finance and Minister of State Magdalena Andersson intend to do about this?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-681	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by pointing out that the change in the ceiling of the RUT deduction does not affect people over 65 years of age. This government has clearly prioritised pensioners in its policy. When the Moderates began to talk about the pensioner tax and the fact that they felt it was important that pensioners should pay higher taxes than employees, we Social Democrats have always been very sceptical about the idea that pensioners who have worked a long life and have to go down in income when they receive a pension should pay higher taxes. The idea from the Moderates was from the beginning that it would bring a lot of new jobs. Or was that any other reason for implementing the special pensioner tax? I never understood the idea behind it. I also find that to be questionable in principle. That is why we have wanted to remove this unfair tax gap, the unfair pensioner tax. I am pleased that we were able to take a first such step in connection with the autumn budget. Unfortunately, last year's budget was stopped with this tax cut by moderates and Swedish democrats. But it is not just reduced taxes that the government has implemented to strengthen and improve for pensioners. We have also increased the housing allowance for those pensioners who have low incomes. We have made a special effort to increase the quality of care for the elderly of SEK 2 billion, which means that more pensioners will be able to get a little more time with the home care staff. We will also introduce free health care for pensioners over 85 years of age. So we have a number of initiatives for pensioners, and I think that is something that is important. Of course, I can see that we will be able to take further steps to reduce the pensioner's tax when the economy so permits.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-686	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Magdalena Andersson! Now we are back in the old rhetoric of trying to throw out that the Alliance Government has increased the tax on pensioners. The truth is that in 2006, when the old Social Democratic government handed over to the Alliance government, the tax on pensioners was 16.45 billion higher than when the Alliance left 2014. Since I have sat all the way in the Social Security Committee and in Parliament, I have a pretty good track of this. The tax was 16.45 billion higher in 2006. It was the tax that was in force at the time. Then a lot has happened. We have had job tax deductions, which, of course, have benefited employees. But the tax was not higher under the alliance government. It was 16.45 billion lower. I've used the parliamentary investigation service to find out if it's going to be plus or minus in the pensioner's economy – and that's the basis of my interpellation – after the new Red-Green Government's proposal for 2016. I'm going to read inside about the cases where pensioners are going to pay home help or special accommodation, and that's a number. It is above all those who need help at home but also those who need help with accommodation and so on. I will begin with an unmarried woman who has an average gross national pension of over 16,000, net 12 800. She receives a housing supplement, but even if she receives a small tax reduction of SEK 43, the home service fee is SEK 220. She's going with minus $17. The married woman we often talk about who is a guarantee pensioner and has worked half-time is also a common case in Sweden. She has a pension married at 7,800 gross, 6,700 net. She only gets 50 percent of the post-ads supplement because she's married. The treasure 164 plus is what it becomes in reality. The home service fee, 220 kroner, is the same as for the others. Even this woman doesn't go plus. Then we have a fairly ordinary married man who has worked for 40 years and has a gross 17 600 pension, net 13 500. The housing supplement is of course zero when you come up in such numbers. The tax becomes – listen and be amazed and that's what you boast about – 11 kroner plus. With a home care fee, if this person needs it, it will be minus $250. In all these three cases, it's minus, and that's how it looks very often. And now I have not counted on the increase in petrol tax, the reduction in ROT and RUT deductions or other cost increases. I have also not included any tax increases in county councils or municipalities, for which I do not, in itself, blame the government. But that is the reality for many pensioners. That is why I remain in my position. Unfortunately, SPF, Parliament's Investigation Service and Taxpayers' Association are right: Pensioners are in most cases reduced by all variables affecting pensioners' finances. This is something other than what the government rhetorically promised in the 2014 election campaign.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-695	Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out once again that the change in RUT does not affect people over the age of 65, but only people under the age of 65. The ceiling remains for those over 65 years of age. I think it's important to keep an eye on the sizes it's all about here. The pensioner's tax reduction we make costs about SEK 2 billion, SEK 2 000 million, and the change in the maximum rate increases revenue by approximately SEK 200 million. We reduce the tax revenue of the pensioner collective by SEK 2 000 million but then increase the revenue by SEK 200 million in home care and on the maximum rate of care for the elderly. Then you should know that we also spend 2 000 million on increased quality in the home service. It is thus an increased rate that gives about 200 million in revenue, but the increased expenditure for elderly care is 2 000 million SEK. Of course, there are many pensioners who will find that the home help staff who come to your home may have a little more opportunity to stay and have a cup of coffee and hear about the grandchildren after cleaning, washing, showering and all the other things you need to do. It is also important to point out that pensioners have had a rather substantial increase in their pensions this year. An average pensioner has had an improvement of an average of SEK 500 per month, and I think that many pensioners find it a good addition to the checkout.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-698	Mr President, I would like to After this debate, I can see that, unfortunately, we have ended up in classical rhetoric where, as usual, the questions of the interpellier are not answered. I can understand this when organisations such as the Taxpayers and SPF and the Swedish Parliament's investigation service have calculated that many pensioners end up on a par with the government's policy. I regret this because in many cases it affects the weakest people for whom every crown matters. The Minister of Finance points out that the pensioners have made a profit. However, if you look at what the government spends on pensioners in total and take from pensioners, the government will take 3 billion or 3 000 million, to use the same figures as the Finance Minister, and will pay back 2 billion or 2 000 million. It is, in my opinion, a minus equation for pensioners. I also regret that I have not received an answer to the questions about new investments or expenditure on pensioners in this year's budget proposal. It would have been an excellent opportunity for such an answer. The fact that pensions have been raised is very important. I'm a member of the Pensions Group, and I'm pleased to hear that. But the Minister of Finance should know that it is not due to today's government but to a delay of two years. The Swedish economy two years ago is now giving a ruling. So the old alliance government did a pretty good job. Thank you for the debate.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-702	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware that there is a broad political agreement behind the pension system. An example of the strength of Swedish politics is when broad cross-block collaborations can create security and stability for the economy and for the pensioner collective. Both the interpellier and I can be proud of that. We have higher taxes for pensioners than for wage earners. As Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng said, they did not actively raise taxes for pensioners, but they chose to lower taxes for those who work and often have significantly higher incomes than pensioners. It was felt that it was more important to reduce taxes for those with high incomes than for pensioners with lower pensions. It was a clear choice made by the Moderates. Why this was done has not been answered. I started by asking that question. I understand that it was thought that it would give many jobs if pensioners paid higher taxes than employees. However, this did not happen because unemployment rose, long-term unemployment rose and youth unemployment rose as a result of eight years with this tax gap between pensioners and wage earners. If we ask the Swedish people if they think it is right that pensioners pay higher taxes than employees, most people answer that it is wrong. On the contrary, they feel that pensioners should have lower taxes. I think it is quite wrong for pensioners to pay higher taxes. All our old people have worked hard, worked hard and built up the society we're all so proud of. That the Moderates then wish that they should be punished with higher taxes when they retire, I find it difficult to understand.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-707	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I have taken and what measures I intend to take to include Kommunsverige in the work on open data and whether I feel that the municipal sector and SKL are susceptible to the work that needs to be done to achieve the full potential of open data. Initially, I would like to say that I share Erik Ottoson's point of departure on the potential of open data. I would like to see an in-depth dialogue on this. Access to and re-use of public information should be easy. Open data can in particular contribute to solutions to societal challenges. Ultimately, it can lead to entrepreneurs and companies creating innovative solutions that provide new jobs. The municipal sector is an important part of the work on open data, and there are a lot of activities going on. In order to exploit the potential of open data, we need to be better at coordinating work in the public sector. Last autumn, the government decided to cooperate with SKL and the municipal sector, as Erik Ottoson has heard from my colleague Mehmet Kaplan. The intention is to create an innovative public administration. Among other things, we will work together with SKL and in collaboration with the private and non-profit sector on the development of tomorrow's mobile e-services. Open innovation processes, open data and agile development are fundamental starting points for this cooperation. The Government has also established a Council for Digitalization of Public Sweden where SKL participates. The Council serves as a forum for coordination between public authorities at both central and local level. Government activities need to support the digital development of Swedish growth and welfare. Against this background, the Government has decided that a number of authorities should be development authorities in given areas, for example for a simpler process of civil engineering. In these assignments, municipal experiences of open data will record. It can also lead to increased coordination of work on open data between the relevant authorities and municipalities. In this year's regulation letter, Lantmäteriet has been commissioned to map benefits and costs that arise in society as a result of the agency's implemented and upcoming efforts on open data. This work also carries a great deal on the municipalities as they make extensive use of Lantmäteriet's data in their own services. In addition, the National Archives in their regulatory letter have been tasked with presenting the measures taken in connection with the regulatory authority's right of regulation for so-called PSI lists. The purpose of the lists is to make it easier to find which data the authorities can provide. The regulations of the National Archives can also be guiding for municipalities even if they are not obliged to comply with them. We have seen this before in the field of archives. In this way, the work also contributes to higher coordination and standardisation between the state and the municipality. In conclusion, the government has changed the work to promote digitalisation and open data. These efforts testify to the fact that there is a great sensitivity of SKL to collaborate in order to achieve the opportunities with the digitisation of public Sweden and around open data.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-719	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. It is a good answer that describes that the government is working on these questions. Let me elaborate a little. Open data are public data to be provided in a machine-readable state in order to be rapidly processed, searched and used. That is why standardisation is very important. Then it becomes complicated when you have to deal with so many different authorities, especially in Kommunsverige. Sweden's 290 municipalities have every authority over their public documents and in what format they are provided. In its reply, the Government describes in part how this is being done, and that is, of course, welcome. He also describes the advice that has been set up by his colleague Mehmet Kaplan in order to work with the digitisation of public Sweden. That too is a laudable initiative. When I talk to those who are active on this issue on the ground, they call for leadership. The government has shown that it has the intention to show leadership in this, but let me encourage the Government to use additional instruments to demonstrate even clearer leadership. I have in previous interpellation debates with the Government and his colleague, Mehmet Kaplan, called for a clear, leading executive central function to coordinate this more effectively. A council for coordination can certainly have its advantages, especially when dealing with 290 infrastructural municipalities. There are also within the framework of public administration, where there is a clearer command structure, opportunities to lead the work on this in a very clear way and to set clear requirements for standardisation, in which data formats it should be provided, or at least requirements for interoperability between different systems to create these conditions. I would like to press for something further in this context. It is not just about what private companies can create for new services, which I and the Government have discussed in the past. It is also a question of what further improvements in efficiency without deterioration in quality and, rather, of quality improvements for the public administration that this could entail. To exemplify this, we currently have a situation in which authorities exchange information with each other in a very difficult way. It shall be requested from the single authority by the other. It should then be picked up, sent over, and then read. If it wasn't exactly what you had in mind, another request should be sent. It takes a lot of working time, takes a lot of energy and costs a lot of money. With standardised data access and with interoperability between more systems, it is greatly simplified. For this to happen, a more executive management of the work is required. In the digital age when the digital process goes much faster than the political and bureaucratic process, we need to adapt to speed and not digitalisation.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-728	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson highlights several important aspects. Standardisation is such an important aspect. If we are to succeed in becoming a world leader in this area of open data and the re-use of public information, we must work on standardisation. We now have work going on in the Government Office and an assignment given to the National Archives. We're gonna have to get back to work. I welcome the views that exist. It is also important not to regard local self-government as a problem. I understand that there is a huge interest in the municipal representatives working with digitalisation. We have a close dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. The letter of intent between the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council is proof that the Swedish Municipalities and County Council take the issue of digitalisation seriously. They are actively working to find collaborations with the government where we can help each other. That is also exactly the attitude of the government. Here the authorities are important. We need to make greater use of the state authorities in the digitisation work. We need to standardise the state making available of open data. I am convinced that the mission given to the National Archives is an important step, and we will have to move forward. Here it is worth saying that we have also given assignments to the Swedish Service Centre to work with efficiency through digital methods. This shows that there is a efficiency potential in the government sector if we use digital solutions. It is closely linked to open data issues. We have taken the legal action. Now there are legal conditions to continue working with open data. The aspects highlighted by the interpellier are aspects that are important and which we will take into account in the further work.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-733	Mr President, I would like to Take it, Minister, for the follow-up defense! I feel that we are fundamentally looking at this very similar in substance. What I am rather focusing on is: what structures do we build up to deal with the rapid changes that are taking place in such an area as digitalisation, and how does the state apparatus absorb them as well as possible? It is a little bit here that we believe we will need to develop our working methods. What the Government describes are methods for implementing this in a good bureaucratic spirit. I myself have a faiblesse for bureaucracy. But it may not always be the most flexible way of operating. That is why I am looking for a somewhat more executive function so that without having to wait for the next time a regulatory letter is to be written, we have the opportunity to take initiatives on various issues in order to create standardisation, consensus and coordination in the area of digitalisation. This applies, for example, to open data. It is not that only we have done what the Government now describes, if it is locked up, is at home in some way on the issue of open data. Data sets, data types and the way in which the information is used change over time very quickly. If we are to be really honest with ourselves, it is not that Sweden is at the forefront of many other countries in this area. In some parts we do. But there are many other countries that are considerably ahead of us today. When you scrape a little on the surface of what has been the concept of success in those countries, it is clear rapid news that does not need to be threshing through too many machines but without restricting some form of democratic governance for that matter. You have to be very careful about doing that in such a situation. That's why I'm possibly looking for a more executive function that has the ability to deal with new issues when they come up. It should be done while trying a little bit to look around corners and predict what is coming. What public Sweden here must do is keep up with business. The business community is considerably better at looking around corners, which the Swedish state structure may not be really world famous for. It is somewhere where we must try to catch up not only here and now on this, but also on how we work on issues that are not yet on the table but that may or may not even be apparent yet.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-741	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson once again highlights important aspects that are about how to get the public administration and not least the state administration to work executively and operationally on digitalisation issues. The order chosen by the government is to have the digital council that assists the government with knowledge and strategic evidence. This means that the government has the potential to get the regular structures of government to work with digitalisation and open data. What must be the aim is for us to get all the government authorities to work continuously on the issues related to digitalisation. Digitalisation can no longer be an issue outside the ordinary structures and activities. Digitalisation is actually a method for streamlining and developing government and municipal activities. It must therefore be included in the ordinary authorities. The government has chosen the method to take the help of experts in this area and then simply get movement through government management. Of course we have some challenges. We must be honest and admit this. The model we have with the municipal self-government means that we must work even more closely with the municipal sector, because the municipalities have autonomy in this area and in all other areas of administration. I understand that the local government sector has a great interest here. I do not face opposition from the municipalities in terms of digitalisation and work with open data. Now we meet all the municipalities and county councils in the country and ask the question: What structures do we need to work with together to develop? It is not the case that the municipalities state that they see the government's actions in this area as a threat to local self-government. There is even pressure from below to now work with us. I welcome that, and that is exactly what we are going to do. We're not at the forefront enough. Some researchers say that we were at the forefront somewhere in the mid-00s. We are not going to speculate on what happened back then in 2006, but we have definitely lost momentum with regard to digitalisation over the last ten years. It is time to get to grips with this, and that is exactly what the government is doing.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-749	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your commitment to this issue! We both share the view that it is very important. It is a question of what effective measures can be taken and what progress can be made in virtually every policy area. The Minister of Finance was just here. She usually looks for money where you can find it; it's a little bit in the role. I think this is a place where, with small funds, you can initially get great results in efficiency and better management in the long term. I am pleased to hear the Prime Minister describe the pressure from Kommunsverige. It's a little bit here somewhere there are both advantages and certain dangers. The pressure from Kommunsverige means trying to find solutions at municipal level. If it does not meet from the central level with the corresponding coordination measures, there is a risk that more and more individual solutions will be introduced. In the Government's response, for example, he takes up the process of building the community, where municipalities have a great responsibility in terms of planning monopolies, planning, building permits management and so on. Standardisation of such a process would probably have a major impact on housing construction in Sweden. This is something where we already see that several municipalities are moving in slightly different directions because there is no clear force that has coordinated the whole thing. This has happened over the last one or two years, when it has really started to take off. This is a concrete example of where we need to take a fairly clear leadership from the central level to show where we are going so that developers operating throughout the country should not have to relate to 290 different computer systems to submit the request for building permits. It would create an enormous amount of efficiency and probably even more housing if one could only relate to one system and solve everything there.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-754	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson is absolutely right; it should be said. This is exactly what we need to do, and it is in line with the policy we have in this area. We need to work more together with the municipalities, with the authorities and with the Riksdag to find the right solutions here. We will be at the forefront of digitalisation. We'll be at the forefront of open data. We have great conditions. Few countries in the world have these conditions. We have a lot of public information. We guarantee the quality of public information. It is now time to make available and re-use public information in order to both develop the public sector and create better conditions for business to develop products and services around the information available through the public system. This is an important journey. We are also engaged in dialogue with the business community. I am currently having conversations with many Swedish companies active in the field of IT. There is great potential here, but then we must dare to work on standardisation to a greater extent. That is also the focus of government policy.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-757	Mr President, I would like to In the light of the appointment of the Division Committee, Michael Svensson has asked me about the motivation behind the appointment of the Committee, the facts and statistics on the advantages and disadvantages of moving towards fewer and considerably larger regions, and the ways in which democracy is improved and developed by the formation of larger regions. Edward Riedl has asked me if it is the position of the Government that Umeå should become the region capital of the northern region. I will respond to the amendments in a joint response. The issue of the region has been investigated several times, most recently by the Committee of Responsibilities and the Report on State Regional Administration. It is clear from these investigations, among other things, that the current classification of counties and county councils is largely no longer appropriate. The recent report of the Highly Specialised Care Report also proposes fewer health professionals. Several of the county councils are too small to cope with their tasks both in the short and long term. The county administrative boards also have similar problems. The purpose of setting up the Division Committee is to create an effective division and organisation that brings lasting benefits, inter alia, through better adaptation to demographic, nutritional and environmental conditions. The division will also provide stable economic conditions in the newly formed county councils, better coherence between citizens' needs and their ability to exercise democratic influence, and increased opportunities for accountability. An important part of this is to give those responsible a fundamentally stable structure. It is also of the utmost importance to look at this issue from a long-term perspective. The studies carried out have highlighted the importance of taking these measures before it becomes too difficult for those responsible to deal with different challenges. The state must therefore assume its responsibility to ensure that Sweden has a functioning social organisation. A new division means creating county councils with a better economic base for necessary investments and county councils that will be better able to provide citizens with equal care. In addition, modern knowledge development is promoted in county councils. The division will also create good conditions throughout the country and not only in the metropolitan areas. A new division thus means greater opportunities to hold the whole of Sweden together by giving county councils and county boards more similar basic conditions. There are several good arguments that larger county councils also bring about a strengthened regional democracy. A clearer link can be established between citizens' needs and those responsible for the activities compared to the wide-ranging interaction that exists today. Decision-making processes can be more efficient and transparent. The experience from Skåne and Västra Götaland, which has been highlighted in the above-mentioned studies, shows that citizens' influence can increase in large regions. When it comes to where the county council will have its seat, this is formally a matter for the county council to decide based on the municipal autonomy. Although the Division Committee is not responsible for making a proposal on this matter, the mandate of the Directive may be relevant to the matter. The Committee shall carry out the necessary investigation under the Divisions Act. This means that the Committee must take into account the factors affecting the issue, such as population development, nutrient geography, the impact of the divisional change on municipal services and municipal economic and municipal democratic issues. In particular, the Directives require the Committee to analyse aspects that should be taken into account in the selection of the city of residence and, where appropriate, to propose residences for the new counties. It also states that the Committee's proposals should be well established with stakeholders and that it is of particular importance that the Committee engages in dialogue with and gathers the views of, inter alia, the municipalities and county councils concerned. This means that the Division Committee will provide a basis that may be relevant for the county council's decision on where the council can have its seat. I do not, therefore, intend to anticipate the work of the investigation on this or other issues.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-769	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps we could ask ourselves whether it is the Axel Oxenstierna of our time that stand before us, or perhaps Valdemar Atterdag, which I do not hope for. Just because a division is old doesn't mean it's bad. I agree that we need optimal and effective governance of the state and the country. I think we need a strong, albeit limited, state. The two large municipal mergers we have had in the country have shown that a critical mass – even more so today – is needed to meet the challenges of well-being. So it has nothing to do with regionalisation. On the other hand, I think that Sweden needs to be regionalised both as a Member of Parliament and as a slipperyer. For all regions need to be given the same mandate as the regions we have today. We should not make a difference between county councils, regional federations and regions. I think that goes without saying. Contrary to what the Government says, the statistics show that certain medium-sized county councils and regions are doing just fine. This applies to Halland, Jönköping, Östergötland and Kalmar, to take the four best examples. Of course, I will also take this opportunity to thank the Government for its answer. If we had not been in this House, perhaps I would have called it something that is not appropriate to mention here. I don't think I got that much answers to my questions, to be honest. What happens to the citizen's perspective? How will any political party cause a leisure politician to travel 1,000 miles [120 km] in Norrland? Yeah, it could be that far. What is the connection, for kinship, between Laholm in the south and Torsby in the north in a new Västra Götaland region? I think that the investigation raises far more questions than it answers. Västra Götaland would go from 49 municipalities to 70 municipalities. I think it is a chimare to say that there would be an increased popular anchoring. I would like to give an historical perspective with an example. The school was municipalized in 1989 - 1990, and it was not decentralised because many of the decisions previously taken at the school were centralised to the municipality. That is how I think it will be in this case too. I think it is important also to think about another thing, and it is whether the Government has in all its wisdom considered whether Sweden should really go from being a united state, a nation state, to becoming a federal state. What happens to future governments and parliaments if even more power is handed over to the regions? I think we're on a sloping plane then. I would also like to have an answer to another question. Is this proposal to be implemented voluntarily, or does the government intend to force the change through the whole country?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-780	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Although I myself find it difficult to see how larger county councils called regions will be able to answer the challenges of the future in health care, I, for my part, only intend to touch on regional capitals in future major regions. I have colleagues who will certainly continue to touch on other aspects of this. A formation of a possible large region in northern Sweden will face a lot of challenges. One of them is that it is about a large geographical area. Half of Sweden with a population under 1 million will be joined together. It will pose a lot of challenges at its head. It will be of great importance where one chooses to place a possible regional capital in such an area for the obvious reason that one should have relatively good accessibility from the entire region to the regional capital. There should also be good opportunities for recruitment of staff. In northern Sweden we have a lot of distances that present challenges. There are not large labour market regions and opportunities for commuting are relatively limited. If the government has then decided to push through this large-scale reform from above, without volunteering and without seeking the support of voters for the reform, it can, with the same logic, ask the Government if it should not then also point out regional capitals, not least in the northern part of our country where it will be of great importance where such a port is. I intend to highlight Umeå, which is geographically relatively central in this possible large region in northern Sweden. Umeå is the largest city in Norrland and is also one of the fastest growing cities in Sweden and has been so for a long time. Umeå has a large university. The University Hospital for Northern Sweden, Norrlands universitetssjukhus, is also there. All of this together ensures that we have a high level of competence and good recruitment opportunities. In addition, there are relatively good opportunities to get to and from Umeå within such a possible large region. Mr President, I would like to If the government draws maps from above, the government should also be able to point out regional capitals. For northern Sweden, the Minister should point out Umeå if one now chooses to pursue this reform. I would like to know what the Minister's argument is against choosing Umeå as a regional capital.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-787	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your spontaneous reply. I can sometimes feel that these discussions on regional issues and major regions that come up with some regularity are almost bordering on voter contempt. If we are to be honest – and we are supposed to be – we can ask ourselves: Which voters have ever highlighted the big region question as the answer to Sweden's challenges? We have challenges in terms of migration, we have challenges in terms of exclusion, we have challenges in terms of the housing market and we have challenges in terms of healthcare and more. I have never heard any voters mention large regions as the answer to this. In the situation that we have in Sweden today with a number of major challenges, I may find it a bit strange and also quite remarkable that this is the issue that the government chooses to prioritise. As far as the theoretical arguments are concerned, for only theoretical arguments are used for the major regions, they are above all about three things. It is health care, infrastructure and growth. I would like to receive an answer from the Minister in this regard. We can start with medical care. As Michael Svensson said, it is definitely wrong to state in the debate that large regions are needed for more appropriate health care. My constituency Region Jönköping County, together with Halland County, comes without exception in all comparisons made only in terms of the quality of public health care. I'm very proud of that. Should the Minister's arguments have been right, it would have been our major regions that had provided the best health care in Sweden. That is clearly not the case. Large regions inevitably lead to less accessibility, less choice and, above all, less satisfied citizens. I would like real arguments for large regions from a health perspective. Halland County and Jönköping County are proof of the opposite, and it is not only the case that you have as good health care as the major regions, but you have much better health care than the major regions. Mr President, I would like to I am addressing the second argument for large regions, namely infrastructure. One can sometimes believe from the general debate that we will be able to invest massively in infrastructure in all parts of Sweden through major regions. But let us remember that there will be no more money for infrastructure just because large regions are formed. It's just that there are others but not fewer who should share the total cake. I would like a comment from the Government on the infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to The third and final argument is growth. There is no evidence whatsoever that population growth is higher. Jönköping County together with Halland County is, as I said, proof of the opposite with regard to this. Can we leave the theoretical arguments for this and go into real, fact-based arguments for why the inhabitants and my voters in Jönköping County would benefit from a large region? It is not that the other county councils in the large region would certainly be a guarantee that Jönköping County's health care would be improved. We are already ranked as the county council that has the absolute best health care. Again, I want to hear real arguments.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-797	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Civil Affairs! We are debating the issue of major regions. I am not the first in the debate. It is clear that there are many of us, not least from the Moderates, who are involved in this matter. Major regions and gigantic mergers of a bureaucratic nature have been debated politically for a long time. It is a question of politicians, politicians and for whom there is minimal interest and poor public support. Unfortunately, the government misses the goal and focuses on giving two people the task at this point to quickly investigate, draw new map images of Sweden and some hashisk-wise redraw the Swedish geography without a clear strategy. It is geography and not content that has been the focus of the discussion. Since it is really county policy and health policy that is the main thing, the focus should rather have been on how we should give the Swedish people a better health care. How do we achieve greater and better growth throughout Sweden? Infrastructure can be part of it and also public transport. How do we improve it? But these discussions do not answer that. We Moderates do not believe that the major regions solve the challenges that exist at regional level, at least not at this stage. I'm sure it can happen in some isolated case. But we cannot see how what has now come to light would lead to improvements. We need to work together. I'm from Värmland. We need to work together in all directions. Östra Värmland will definitely have to cooperate east towards Örebro, towards Västmanland, even towards Gävleborg. Södra Värmland will have a natural collaboration, which we have today, with the Västra Götaland region. There is no doubt that our western parts need to cooperate across the Norwegian national border. And our northern parts are adjacent to Dalarna. I think we need to work together in all directions. We need more cooperation. We need more choice. We need more growth. That is how we will improve the situation. Unfortunately, the focus has not been on how to improve the business. It also went wrong geographically, with the maps presented over Sweden. My colleagues have been into it. If you want to connect, as Michael Svensson said, you link Långflon in northern Torsby with Laholm in southern Halland. It is a stretch that corresponds roughly to that between Stockholm and Stavanger in Norway. There's no historical connection. There's no geographical connection. As much as the Green Party wants, we will never have high-speed trains between Långflon and Laholm. Nor is there any evidence of how health care, growth or democracy would be better if you moved the county hall in Karlstad to Vänersborg or wherever you put it. The same applies to Halland. How does popular anchoring improve? How does health care improve? How does growth improve? And how does this improve the situation for our citizens at all? As Mats Green said, the regions are getting bigger, but there is no more money. What is the Government's response to the voters? How does it provide more health care in Torsby by moving decisions further away from the voters?
i-010aad093d27bb5d-807	Mr President, I would like to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi stands here like a Sven Duva and faces a sudden moderate stupor. I'm rushing to his rescue to provide fire support. I would even like to commend the Minister for Civil Affairs, who is doing a good job on the regional issue and on the public procurement of food in our municipalities. In Östergötland we say when we want to praise someone that he could have succeeded much worse. I'm 68 years old. I have been discussing the regional issue for 10 – 15 years now, in different constellations. It has been regional committees and so on. I don't want to discuss it for another ten years without coming to a conclusion. I think the question is ready to land. I do not believe that this is a big and deep, popular issue for referendums on the exact region to be included in. It is an issue we need to discuss politically and find good solutions to. Axel Oxenstierna fixed the end of the 1600s sometime so that we got 22 counties. It has been like that for more than 300 years. A change is needed. We have released some regions, which are large and powerful: Skåne, Västra Götaland and Stockholm. But then it's stopped. Michael Svensson took Östergötland as an example and said that you are doing just fine on your own. We have good medical care, together with Kalmar and Jönköping. And I sincerely hope that we will continue to have that. But my opinion as Östergöte is that we are falling behind Skåne and Västra Götaland. This is also the view of other parties and politicians in Östergötland. Skåne and Västra Götaland own their infrastructure issues and can draw power from the state and handle matters better than we can handle in the divided area between Skåne and Mälardalen, which has Vättern in the west. If this order persists, we are concerned that some strong regions are drawing power from Stockholm and are increasingly handling their affairs while the county regions are too small. The Moderates want to start over. It is clear that they do not like strong and fewer regions that can draw power from Stockholm and relieve pressure on municipal mergers. It's a long way from Torsby to Halland, isn't it? But without regions it ends up at national level. And it is even longer between Haparanda and Skåne. I can assure you of that. I see regions as an important continuing instrument for managing regional issues, health issues and so on. As I said, it is clear that the Alliance did not succeed in this. We did not fully agree on the matter. I think it's time for a regional division. I hope that Parliament will be able to gather behind this. It would be sad to continue discussing this in a new alliance government. We need to put energy on other things. I have understood that there is quite a broad consensus over the country and in Parliament on the issue. I therefore hope that it will land there and that my honourable moderate colleagues may in the long term realise the greatness of what is going on.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-818	Mr President, I would like to While Staffan Danielsson hastens to help the Government, the wind around the issue becomes not only stronger but also colder. I do not see large regions as panacea for the current problem. I would like to look like the Prime Minister to Alexander the Great. When he could not disintegrate the Gordian knot, he took out his sword and with the famous alexander he ended and stood for the solution. With an alexander hem, the government plans to divide Sweden into six regions from having been divided into 21 counties. The six new regions involve rationalisation, hospital closures, smaller staff, longer distances for patients and poor communication services. Should such a delicate task be handled centrally, with an alexander hem? Or, in order to show respect for the citizens, should current activities be improved by means of initiatives that come from the floor? I would like to reflect on this by saying here and now that the government's plans are characterised by a lack of democracy. It does not show the necessary respect for the citizens who will be affected by the government's plans. Why such time for referrals, input and impact assessments on such a delicate project? That's what I'm asking myself and a lot of people with me. Like my colleague Mats Green, I come from Jönköping, which is an excellent region and which, not least in health care, makes the best efforts there are. It is constantly being observed in the country. Jönköpingers like their region. Why should we be forced to merge with others? Why can't we control our own future? We have proved that we are capable of doing so in the existing organisational sketch, if the term is allowed. Can the Council of State in this House account for the real reasons for this hastened-up action? Is it democratic motives, economic motives, efficiency motives, socially driven motives, or is it perhaps the government's motive for power? What are the reasons for changing Sweden's image for the worse? Not only do I think so, but a lot of people do. Even the government's party friends in the country are reacting. It would be interesting if the Government were to highlight the motives for the democratic deficit.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-826	Mr President, I would like to Thank you all, Members of Parliament, for this debate! Several of our counties are too small to be functional from all points of view. That is not my opinion; it is a conclusion from the 1959 county inquiry. This issue has been investigated through the 1963 regionalisation inquiry, the 1974 county inquiry, the 1992 regional inquiry, the 1995 regional committee, the 2007 committee of responsibility and the 2012 state regional division inquiry. Much can be said, Mr President, on the issue of the region, but that it would be a hasty, a quick process, is a bit excessive. This issue has been discussed since 1958 when work on the 1959 investigation was started. We have had a solid discussion over the past 10 – 15 years on how to ensure the equivalence and efficiency of the Swedish administration. It is not that there are no challenges in Swedish administration. We have among the highest urbanisation rates in Europe with enormous effects on the public sector. It creates regional divides that we should be very concerned about, which pose a threat to the equivalence of Swedish welfare, which is essentially a threat to the cohesion of our society. We have a demographic development that we share with the rest of the Western world. Fewer and fewer people are going to support more and more people while the consumption of welfare services is increasing, while citizens are demanding more and more of health care – this is because we are becoming richer and because prosperity is increasing. Then we also demand more of the welfare. This happens at the same time as healthcare technology develops every day. What is highly specialised medical care today will not be able to do so in ten years' time, because technological development will have gone even further. Mr President, I would like to I spend quite a lot of my time going around to meet the country's municipalities and county councils. We agree on one thing, and that is that we have serious challenges in the Swedish public sector. The answer to these challenges cannot simply be tax increases and privatisations. We also have a duty to the citizens to constantly work with the modernisation and development of the public sector. We should agree, Mr President, that it is the public sector and systems that are to be adapted to the people, not the people that are to be adapted to the systems. Movement patterns have changed. This should mean that the state should take responsibility for modernising the public sector so that its structure meets the needs of today's society. It is therefore not without reason that a united board in the Swedish Municipalities and County Council courted this government after the change of power and said: Please, do something about this issue. We've been discussing it for too long. It is not without reason that this government decided to choose a model where we have dialogue with all the county councils and municipalities concerned. It is not a process that is driven from above. Two negotiating persons, one with a state perspective and one with a county council perspective, have sat down to work together with all relevant actors. Sweden will be regionalised. We're going to decentralize. I am proud that I belong to a government where we have said that regional development responsibility is going out to the regions. I am proud to belong to a government that has said that regionalisation is not a threat to equivalence, on the contrary. It is the decentralised welfare model that holds our society together. Then it's time to stand up for it, too.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-835	Mr President, I would like to I think that the review of all investigations from 1958 shows that this division – which Axel Oxenstierna and others achieved in the 1630s or 1640s – was quite good, but that history can be left behind. I wonder why they want to do this now. I think that the country and the government should see the other problems and challenges that exist in the country and that need to be resolved. They are not solved by a new regional division. The critical mass is found in municipalities. However, we should discuss in a completely different way how many small municipalities with 3 000 – 10 000 inhabitants will meet the challenges. Today there is some interaction between small municipalities, but I do not think that is enough. It is the major reform that we should instead be discussing. It would be interesting if the Government could explain something to me. Just because you merge four Norrlandslän with red numbers, how can it suddenly turn into black numbers? What is the Gordian knot that the Government intends to solve with an alexander? It's very serious if we're on a sloping plane. Staffan Danielsson belongs to a party which is in favour of decentralisation, but I do not believe that this will lead to decentralisation. The citizens, from whom we are set to serve and gain confidence, and the municipalities will see it as a centralisation. There may be voluntary cooperation. I can imagine that Blekinge, for example, would like to be part of another region. This may be the case, but the perspective I have so far taken note of raises a great many questions and concerns. I would like to say a quiet prayer that the government, as the previous government did, stopped this investigation in the trash, because that is where it belongs. I have asked a number of questions, and many are in the debate. I may be among those politicians who are not the very best at answering all the questions straight and simple. With the permission of the President, I hope, I have taken a copy of my questions, and I wanted to hand it over to the Government, so that he might think about them for the next speech.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-843	Mr President, I would like to The Minister has three minutes to reply. Not once does he mention Umeå. I think that's weak. During the three minutes the minister has at his disposal, Umeå is not mentioned with a single syllable. If the Minister does not want to point out where a possible regional capital should be located in a possible Greater Northern Land, one could at least require the Minister to answer the questions about what would be important in such a future regional capital. Does the size of the city chosen matter? Is education and the healthcare structure that already exists important? Do skills and recruitment opportunities play a role in a future regional capital? Is geographical accessibility important? This is an area of half of Sweden. Is it important that all citizens have reasonable access to the regional capital? Mr President, I would like to I would very much like to know what the Minister thinks. Then he will be very happy to mention Umeå in his next speech. I very much hope for that. I'll stay for a little while to see if that's the way it is.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-846	Mr President, I would like to I have questions from my constituents in Jönköping County, and I too am calling for proper answers. Regarding the still rather theoretical arguments: In what way will there be more inhabitants of Aneby municipality for moving the regional capital to Kalmar? That's a question you have to ask yourself. I would like to move on to Michael Svensson's question on the proposed Norrland region. In what way do the red figures in the county councils become black just because you draw other maps and merge regions? The only way to ensure that this can happen, Mr President, is to close down hospitals, centralise hospitals and close down health centres. The only way in which economic gains could be achieved in large regions is, in all honesty, to reduce the number of hospitals and health centres and reduce accessibility. Otherwise, you can't get that calculation together. Again: Start making real and important arguments! If we have now discussed this issue since 1959, there is probably a particular point, Mr President, in that no government has finally said that this is perhaps not really the big question for the future. Finally, I would like to comment on the Government's argument that this is inevitable. I suspect, if I am going to take a parable, Mr President, that somehow it was inevitable that the Titanic would sail. That's not to say it was a good idea to be on her.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-850	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Civil Affairs! We have been debating this issue for many years, as I said earlier. Basically, I hope that we will not debate it for so many more years. But when the discussion comes up again, I hope that the minister who is in favour of forming large regions will say: When we debated this in 1959 and all the other years, even in 2016, we said this, but still did not come to the fore. I agree with Staffan Danielsson of the Center Party that it is sad that we will continue to have a debate even if we have a future alliance government. We put an end to the last time because this was not the solution to the problems of the present. Creating large regions would not have solved the challenges of healthcare, growth issues and the challenge of urbanisation. As Staffan Danielsson said, it is of course longer between Kiruna and Ystad than it is between Laholm and Långflon in Värmland. But now it is not the case that I stand here and advocate that we make the whole health care national. We have county councils today, and it's done at county level. In the future, some people want this to happen at the level of gigantic regions. I think Staffan Danielsson has a good intention. I believe that this is about the desire for us to move power down, decentralise Sweden and transfer more power from central level to regional level. That is what my question to the Government is about. Because I don't believe it. I do not believe that we will move labour market, education, growth and other policies from government level to regional level. Is it the view of the Government that future governments will evict responsibility and renounce power and determination in favour of the regions? I don't think so, and that's why I think this is a bad idea.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-854	Mr President, I would like to Talking is great! Sometimes you don't get along completely. Christian Holm Barenfeld argued that Värmland should cooperate in all directions, as has been done for 300 years, with different counties here and there, Norway and so on. Certainly the counties could continue to do so. Then there's no need for a change. But no, I think time has gone away from this. It's too little, too fragmented and too unstructured. We have released Skåne and Västra Götaland. These regions were formed quickly and uncomplicated, and they exist. Who wants to go back to the former counties? If we put a stop now, we are blocking other Sweden's opportunities for equally rational division. It won't hold. Without reform, there is a risk that the regional level will disappear, that power will be concentrated with the state and that the municipalities will be smaller and larger. That is what the Moderates are aiming for, and that would be much worse, in my opinion. I am safeguarding the regional level, but there must be modernisation. I fully agree with the Government's committed speech and argumentation. I know that the Moderates are using the positive values of the Center Party: bottom-up, decentralisation, the small scale. I'm glad about that. But there is a goat's foot hidden in the argumentation. The aim is to have a stronger and more centralised state and fewer and larger municipalities. I want strong regions that can draw power from Stockholm and enable us to keep the vast majority of today's municipalities for a long time to come. Therefore, I hope that the Government and the Government, in cooperation with the Riksdag, will succeed in landing in a decision before the Alliance's next takeover. I hope that an alliance government will take over and cooperate very well once we have dealt with this issue.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-857	Mr President, I would like to Great drive characterizes the government's narratives. I know that one. I am engaged in the political task of believing that a democracy starts and is based on place and place. I want to communicate that to my constituency. It is not by means of centrally produced maps, but by the local forces that determine whether the plans are successful. You have to have people with you when planning such changes. That support lacks the government. I will return to the historic lands. If the reform is carried out, the Government can go down in history in the same way as the old General Pyrrhus, who won a victory but sacrificed his entire army. I believe that this is a great sacrifice, while at the same time the democratic deficit will shape the action of the government.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-859	Mr President, I would like to We probably have among Europe's most decentralised welfare models. The operations and direct decision-making power over welfare activities have been transferred to the municipalities and county councils. The question has to be asked why Sweden has succeeded in this. How is it that we have managed to have an effective welfare that is decided close to the people? Because they were able to cope, dared and managed to implement a municipal reform in the early 70s, which created municipalities that had a user base that made it possible to decentralisation of welfare. When welfare was expanded during the 1970s it could be done out in the municipalities in a decentralised model. This was then supplemented by national regulation and equalisation between municipalities, which enabled us to ensure equivalence. It is probably one of the strongest aspects that we have in our model, that we can guarantee equivalence in public welfare activities. It is not that this change is not implemented at the county council level. Things have happened since 1959. The problem is that it has only happened around the big cities, which Staffan Danielsson was in on. It has happened around Stockholm, when Stockholm County Council was formed, it has happened around Gothenburg, when Västra Götaland was formed, and it has happened around Malmö, when Skåne was formed. The question is: should we allow big cities to leave, or should we take administrative measures to ensure equal growth and development throughout our country? The question is: can we turn to the citizens and say that it will matter where in the country they live in terms of the quality and accessibility of health care? Or should we have units capable of developing health care and maintaining and improving quality there? If we now come to the conclusion that we must ensure equivalence, we must go to the knowledge that exists. It is not my opinion that we need to have a certain user base, but it is a conclusion that has been drawn up after careful investigation work in several investigations. It is also knowledge that we can gain from the experience of Denmark, Norway and other European countries. We have knowledge of how large the patient base should be in order for us to ensure equal and effective healthcare. The question is: should we manage to base political decisions on knowledge, or should we let it go? If we let it go, as we have done over the last ten years, the regional divide will grow in our country. There are those in Swedish politics who do not see the regional divide as a problem, but this government sees the regional divide as a major problem. We are going to take the measures that we can take to reduce the regional divide. We do this when it comes to the localisation of government jobs, we do so when it comes to support for Swedish municipalities, and we will do so in terms of the modernisation of the public sector. We shall defend the decentralised welfare model, but in order to defend it it must have a modern structure that meets the needs of today's society. It is the Government and the Riksdag that have the duty to carry this out.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-867	Mr President, I would like to I suspect that the Government is flattered by all the parables – Alexander the Great and Axel Oxenstierna, although Valdemar Atterdag may not have been meant as flattery. But I don't think the government understood that either. When I read in Lund many years ago there came out a book called Lie, d fucking lie and statistics. Forgive the swearing! This means that you can show exactly what you want with statistics that suit your purpose. It can also be argued on this issue that Sweden is going in the completely wrong direction if we do not do exactly as the Committee proposes. I don't think so. We're a small country, about 10 million. I think it is one thing for Germany, which has 90 million inhabitants, to have its federal states. Somewhere I think we need to discuss size advantages. There is no correlation between large regions, development and good results. It is about other things, about administering Sweden and ensuring that there are good processes and collaborations. Several of the questions asked to the Government remain to be answered. How are we going to get leisure politicians to stand up in these gigantic regions? Is there going to be two or three-day meetings? Should you go 100 km from Laholm to Torsby, or should it be Gothenburg? If Umeå does not become a regional capital, where will it end up? I would like answers to a couple of questions. It is voluntary or forced to push it through. The Social Democrats in Halland have been talking about a referendum. How does the Minister feel about that? Will the result, whatever it may be, be respected? Then I think it's important to think about this with a united state as a federal state – then I think we're on a sloping level.
i-010aad093d27bb5d-872	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the debaters for a very interesting discussion. This shows that there is incredible commitment to this issue, and it is fundamentally positive that we actually care about the structure of public administration. This structure also affects the quality and development of activities. In particular, efficiency affects democracy in public activities. The process that we have had behind us and that we have before us is a process in which two negotiators appointed by the Government conduct a dialogue primarily with the county councils in question. There is also a dialogue with municipalities and other actors operating locally and regionally. This process can be described as a middle line between the previous government's approach, which called on the county councils to take care of it themselves, and the model in which the map is drawn in the capital. We have a dialogue where we work together to develop a solution that meets the needs we have. One aspect has not been touched on here today, Mr President, and that is that the state regional division is unique to each authority. That is the effect of our failure to address this issue. Having a system where all state authorities have their own unique regional division and where we have county councils that do not correspond to the state divisions is not a good solution if we are to have good coordination and cooperation between the state authorities and between the state and the municipalities. That is another reason why we have to deal with this, and so far I have not heard any argument against that aspect. Incidentally, I love Umeå, but I will not interfere in the debate on regional capitals. We have the decentralised model we have, and that also applies in this process. I look forward to seeing the talks that the county councils in Norrland are currently conducting.
