i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-0	Mr President, honourable Members and others who follow this debate. At Mammaforum in Bergsjön, Gothenburg, women who have had children meet and talk about big and small and share experiences, just like in any mother group. But for many of the participants, this particular mother group is the only contact with Swedish society. Everyone I met there the other week wanted to get into Swedish society as quickly as possible, learn the language, get to work and not let the early years make this impossible. But not everyone could do it. One of them had been in Sweden for six years but still did not have the opportunity for education. Another had been here for four years and felt isolated when she had a baby. And one asked why she had to stop SFI when she was on parental leave. They wanted to do the right thing, but the Swedish system put sticks in the wheels. It is ten times more common for a foreign born to become dependent on subsidies than a native born. Unemployment is four times higher for a person born outside Europe compared to a person born in Sweden. As recently as yesterday we saw the Employment Service say that unemployment among foreign born people is increasing. Stefan Löfven refuses to see this. In Sweden 2016, where Stefan Löfven is Prime Minister, the equivalent of 1 million will soon risk being stuck in exclusion, dependency on grants and a sense of hopelessness. In Stefan Lövven Sweden there are 130 areas where less than half of the working age work. It has severe consequences for the people affected but also for increasing insecurity. Hopelessness is holding fast, and the feeling of powerlessness is spreading. First, the dreams are extinguished for the outsider. But then the benefits come and crowd out the jobs and welfare. In Malmö, for example, the municipality pays more for income support than for salaries to preschool teachers. This is the reality of Sweden, and this development must be broken. Languages and jobs are needed for the way to work and independence, otherwise this path will be overwhelming. We have the right to make demands of anyone who comes here to Sweden that she or he does everything in his power to make himself employable. However, we must also have high demands that politics increases the number of roads to the first job. For in a Sweden that is strong and holds together, everyone should do the right thing, and in a Sweden that is strong and holds together, no one can be left out.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-8	Mr President, I would like to Just before noon. On the night of July 16, this year, the Rescue Department received a call about the smell of smoke in an apartment in Gottsunda, Uppsala. The fire department was not far away but was delayed because it could not enter the area without a police escort. When it arrived, a man was found dead in the apartment. If his life had been saved if the fire department had arrived earlier, we will never know. But in Sweden you have to know that the ambulance, fire brigade and the police come when they are needed no matter where you live. Today there are areas where you don't dare call the police, where cars are set on fire and people are afraid to go out. Every third municipality is forced to hire private security companies to provide security in its public environments. There are many everyday crimes, but they rarely lead to punishment. Only one out of every eight cases of assault is cleared up, and the dissatisfaction within the police is so great that only in the first six months of this year 240 policemen chose to quit. Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. In Stefan Lövven's Sweden, police officers, ambulance drivers and firefighters meet on their way to the emergency, not with gratitude and helpfulness, but with stones. There are many police officers who do a brilliant job, but there are far too many police officers who are no longer able to go to work. This development must be broken. But the Prime Minister closes his eyes and seems satisfied with how he and his government do the job. There are no proposals to solve the problems. We Moderates invest in our budget ten times as much as the government to improve the police's ability to do their job, so that the police can be at least 2 000 more, so that the police will have more civilian employees who can investigate crimes and get sufficient equipment and that the police will be given the opportunity to get 2 000 SEK more per month in salary. The security in Sweden must cover everyone, no matter where they live.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-12	Mr President, I would like to This morning about 1,200,000 children went to school. There the way begins to enter Swedish society, regardless of what parents you have, where you come from or how long you have been in Sweden. But there are schools where not even half of the students reach the knowledge goals. Why are these schools still open? When students are not taught to read, write and count properly, school not only takes away their self-esteem for the moment but also their opportunities for a better future. In Stefan Lövven Sweden there are students who go to school but in practice never have a chance to get approved. They will have a very difficult time going into adulthood and going into the labour market. Everyone has the right to a good school, but no one has the right to expose students to the risk of not learning what they need. Swedish students need more teaching – one hour more a week in primary school, and one hour more math in secondary school. Teachers must be paid well and time to be teachers. Whether the school is municipal or private, Sweden must introduce zero tolerance against bad schools.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-15	Mr President, I would like to On Friday 7 October, a Russian ship Iscanderbots carried through the Baltic Sea to Kaliningrad, just 500 miles from here. Uncertainty in the outside world is very close to us and takes many forms. Even inside the walls of the Parliament House there have been questions about which powers actually govern the Riksdag offices, and how. Russia's actions in the immediate region and the terrible situation in Aleppo, Syria, but also the continuing threat of international terrorism, remind us of the uncertainty in our surrounding world. If you look at the reality and the world around you, you are naive if you think that the migration crisis is over. Then you have to take responsibility. You need both to know what you want and to be able to exercise leadership here at home, otherwise you are governed by others. We need a long-term sustainable migration policy. It cannot be based on the hopes of other countries' actions, but requires both leadership and positions here and concrete ability to influence other countries in order to achieve results. In a serious security situation, we need not only to strengthen the Swedish defence, to which we Moderates have contributed, but also to invest in our international cooperation. The door to Swedish membership of NATO must then be open. But Stefan Löfven wants to keep it closed. It also shows how he prioritises. The care of one's own party is apparently more important than the responsibility for the country. Mr President, I would like to In Stefan Lövven Sweden, the equivalent of 1 million people will soon risk being stuck in exclusion, dependency on grants and a sense of hopelessness. In Stefan Lövven Sweden there are schools where not even half of the students get sufficient knowledge. In Stefan Lövven Sweden, blue light personnel meet with threats and stone stones. Sweden is heading in the wrong direction, and the only one who is satisfied with this development is the Prime Minister. Sweden needs a new alliance government that takes reality and the outside world seriously and has the ability to implement reforms that Sweden needs. Leadership is not to turn a blind eye to what is unpleasant or to exploit people's concerns, but to take anxiety seriously and take reality and the outside world seriously, and to present and implement solutions to our most important societal problems. We Moderates present a budget that makes it more profitable to work. We spend more than 60 billion on school and welfare in the next few years, as opposed to the government's 40 billion. We invest more than ten times as much as the government to strengthen the police. It is possible to do all this in politics if one wants to and prioritises, and it is possible to do so without borrowing in prosperity. We Moderates do not turn a blind eye to reality but take it seriously. We are prepared for debate, we are prepared for criticism and we are prepared to discuss what is needed to build Sweden stronger. That's why we have a plan for a stronger Sweden.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-22	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the name, Stefan Löfven, was the largest part of the content of the speech. Thank you for your attention. Otherwise I can note that you describe quite a lot of problems you have been with and created and are responsible for, Anna Kinberg Batra. You started quite strongly with those who have been here for six years, or for four years, without getting help. That's 130 areas of alienation-- well, they increased sharply during your time. Supply aid increased sharply during your time, and school results fell disastrously during your time. It was a good opening, Anna Kinberg Batra – it was clear.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-24	You reduced taxes by 140 billion instead of giving priority to jobs, schools, welfare and the climate. In addition, you left behind a huge hole in the state budget. The gaps grew, and the school results dropped as I said. Unemployment rose, and youth unemployment was record high during your time. It was simply a decommissioning of the Swedish model you were working on. We have changed direction now, from tax cuts and cuts to investments in the construction of society. Many challenges remain; there is no doubt about that. We have far too many unemployed, but 120 000 more people have actually had a job to go to since we took office. At school alone, we have another 13 000 employees. We have almost wiped out the budget deficit you left behind. The Swedish people voted out the moderate tax and cutting policy, Anna Kinberg Batra. After the election loss, you said you would certainly renew yourself. I wonder: What about the renewal? We in Sweden have major problems in and concerns about Swedish healthcare. Instead of investing in Swedish health care, cut it down. In what way do we create better healthcare in Sweden by lowering taxes and cutting down, Anna Kinberg Batra?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-27	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister stands here and shows his two parades this autumn: to be very pleased with the state of affairs and to talk about himself. I myself intend to talk about social problems this morning, during this autumn and during the two years we have left for the elections. You're in charge now, Stefan Löfven. You were prime minister for two years. What I mentioned in my introduction and want to continue discussing is what we should do to improve Sweden based on the situation we have now. What if you were serious about the jobs and, for example, put forward proposals that made demands and gave people the opportunity to go from exclusion to work, Stefan Löfven! What if you had said something like that in this line shift and in the TV debates – or in the presentation of the budget bill, which on the contrary is a powerful effort to contribute to those who do not work? This is financed by borrowing in boom. What do you build, Stefan Löfven? You build nothing but a bill that those who would need welfare in the future, such as children and pensioners who would need strong Swedish public finances, will have to pay when we take over from you after the 2018 election. I think it was good that you brought up the welfare, Stefan Löfven. It gives me the opportunity to recall once again what our draft budget looks like. In the next few years, we spend EUR 60 billion instead of the government's 40 on strengthening the opportunities in the municipalities to strengthen the school and cope with the integration challenge we are probably just at the beginning of. I would like to ask you if you can take the opportunity to say something concrete about how we are going to fix and improve the schools where today half or less than half of the nines get sufficient knowledge, Stefan Löfven. What do you want to do with them besides standing here and being content and talking about yourself?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-33	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to invest more resources in public and in our welfare on the total. You are talking about gross and you are adding 60 billion, Anna Kinberg Batra, but you are not talking about how much you are drawing away from the municipalities. It would be appropriate for you to do so. In addition, you have a budget that is not even funded. Look over it one more time! While all five opposition parties are cutting back on health care, we are adding SEK 3 billion to the county councils. In addition, we make special efforts and investments in staffing, cancer care and maternity care. Now we will continue to work to strengthen the health centres so that the care becomes more accessible. We work with patients, strengthening their position through patient contracts, and so on and so forth. Moderate medical care we have seen more than enough of here in Stockholm County. You didn't answer my question, Anna Kinberg Batra. How does health care get better with tax cuts and cuts? Answer that question!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-36	Mr President, I would like to The issue is not relevant because we spend nearly 20 billion more than the government on strengthening for municipalities and county councils in the next few years. It's important, especially when you're at the beginning of an integration challenge-- which I'm seriously worried about you turning a blind eye to, Stefan Löfven. What happens if you close your eyes to it and tell it that only some people are affected? Then you close your eyes to a risk that Sweden is torn apart and that almost 1 million people become dependent on benefit systems instead of getting a first job. Those who listen now heard from the Prime Minister the amount of words you can get in in one minute. It was and so on and so on, but it wasn't a word about how more people can get their first job in Sweden or how we should strengthen knowledge in school and the security of society. That requires leadership, Stefan Löfven, and so far you have had two years to show that you are missing.
i-En3HferKvfsNh8vZsTZbJR	Mr President, I would like to Good morning, Anna Kinberg Batra! It is often the case in these debates, as we also heard in the line that preceded this, that there are a lot of words. The question is what words really mean. What does what they say here mean? For example, we just heard Anna Kinberg Batra say that Sweden needs a new alliance government. I don't know how many chances Anna Kinberg Batra has had to convict the government Löfven over the past two years, but she hasn't. It is thanks to Anna Kinberg Batra and her alliance friends that Stefan Löfven is still Sweden's Prime Minister. What, then, are the words really worth, Mr President? The issue of government is something that has been very much discussed, not least in recent weeks. It is a huge debate about who wants to cooperate with who, who absolutely does not want to cooperate with who and so on. So Anna Kinberg Batra wants to form an alliance government – after the elections then, if I understand it correctly. I'm thinking about how you think you're gonna get this together. The most important issue for voters right now is immigration and integration policy. Three out of four alliance parties want to increase immigration to Sweden, while the Moderates have made a very large number of the fact that they are now tightening up their immigration policy. I'm sure you've won some voters on it, but how do you get politics through? How can you get politics through with the help of the Center Party, Liberals and Christian Democrats, all of whom want to increase immigration to Sweden? How does Anna Kinberg Batra expect this to happen? What does that compromise look like? Or is it that the words we have heard from Anna Kinberg Batra and her party colleagues over the past year really don't mean much?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-43	Mr President, I would like to I think that Sweden cannot go back to an unsustainable situation, as we found ourselves in autumn 2015. That is why I began a review of the moderate migration and integration policy on the day I was elected in January 2015. We need a long-term sustainable migration policy. I want to lead the next government with parties that share a foundation of values about how we break exclusion, how we get more in work and how we build Sweden stronger in a very worried world. I have exactly the same attitude as the Prime Minister on the government issue: you take responsibility for your party and for those you want to cooperate with. How other parliamentary parties vote, they have to answer for themselves. I am no more interested in starting cooperation with the Swedish Democrats today than I was yesterday. This has political reasons that I think most people here know but about which I would like to speak seriously to the Swedish people. You can't break alienation with a party that puts a new Swedish record in increased contributions to those who don't work. You cannot build Sweden stronger in a troubled world with those who reject NATO and the EU when we need international cooperation most. Nor can you form a government or enter into cooperation with a party that can never take responsibility for the fact that security risks occur in the Riksdag Office, because extreme statements happen to be made or because anti-Semitic movements happen to be aroused. These are some examples just from the last week. That is why I am no more interested today than I was yesterday in starting cooperation with the Swedish Democrats, and that is why I am seeking a mandate to give Sweden a new alliance government.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-49	Mr President, I would like to That's what we've heard. That's nothing new. Anna Kinberg Batra has repeated that many times before. My question was, rather, how to bring this alliance government together in the next step. As has been said, immigration and integration policy is the most important issue for voters at the moment. This is also the issue that has dominated the domestic debate of the last year, as a result of the irresponsible policies of Moderates, Social Democrats and others in recent years. How do you intend to get this together if you do not agree when forming this strong alliance government? The Moderates have a view that they are obviously fighting for, but the other three parties actually think the opposite. How do you get this together? What does that compromise look like? The Center Party has talked about 40 million immigrants to Sweden. Is the compromise 20 million immigrants? What does the compromise look like, Anna Kinberg Batra? How do you get this together? How are you going to put strength behind the words about a stronger immigration policy that we have heard over the past year?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-53	Mr President, I would like to It was when we Moderates had reconsidered our policy, when we were able to put forward proposals and also gather the alliance friends that we pushed the government ahead of us to take the necessary steps in autumn 2015. It is also well known how the parties have voted this year. It is completely out of the question that Sweden is going back to an unsustainable situation. We need a serious and long-term sustainable migration policy. The reason why I want to form one together with the alliance parties is, once again, the community of values in that we need order and order in Swedish reception. We also need order and order in the Swedish labour market, where you can go from contribution to work and take seriously the major integration challenge we have before us. Then more people must get their first job rather than it pays better not to work. Nothing new, said Jimmie Åkesson. Nor do I see any new reasons for starting cooperation with a party whose policy harms Sweden. This applies to the Swedish Democrats, and it also applies to the Left Party. That is why I seek the voter's confidence in a new alliance government. Sweden would need that.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-56	Mr President, I would like to Today is a small historic day. This House, the Swedish Parliament, will vote on the Paris Agreement. Anna Kinberg Batra has spoken for ten minutes and stood for a long time in the speaker's seat without once mentioning the greatest challenge of our time: the climate threat. Nor have I heard the word 'environment' come over the Prime Minister's lips during this time. 2016 is likely to be the hottest year ever measured in human history, and the world has agreed to limit global warming. Here is China, here is the United States, here is the European Union, here is India; here all countries are behind a transition to a fossil-free economy. At the same time, the Moderates are presenting a budget motion to reduce the tax on fossil fuels by 8 billion by 2020. It also wants to remove all measures on the climate and the environment presented by the government. You want to remove every four crowns. They want to remove the entire support for climate change that can benefit charging poles for electric cars all over Sweden. This is not a green tax exchange; this is what I call a brown tax exchange! I would like to ask Anna Kinberg Batra why petrol should be cheaper when we have to switch to a fossil-free economy. Why is there a need for less climate policy in Sweden right now? And how will your policy help the destiny of our time – the climate?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-60	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Leadership in a troubled world requires leadership in the climate as well. That is why I am grateful to Isabella Lövin for raising this issue. Today is a big day in Sweden. It is important that we work together both here and in the outside world in order to reduce fossil emissions – that's why in our budget exercise we increase the funding for international climate action and add 50 percent more. That's also why it's good that Isabella Lövin and I are now making sure to stop the early retirement of nuclear power, which gives Sweden and Swedish industry energy supply without fossil emissions. Otherwise, we would force down industrial jobs in fossil energy sources or stop industrial jobs here. Isabella Lövin represents a party that went to elections to resist economic growth. What happens if you drive jobs and industrial production out of environmentally friendly, sustainable, ambitious Sweden? Competition, for example, consists of China and other European countries with poorer conditions and much higher levels of fossil emissions. We have a responsibility both here and abroad to have sustainable production, sustainable transport and – yes! - to be able to take the car to work. A new car emits a lot less than, for example, a Volvo Amazon did when we were children. New technology and growth, Isabella Lövin, and energy with limited fossil emissions is absolutely excellent and important for the climate!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-65	Mr President, I would like to Then I got the answer – it is nuclear power and new cars, which are going to go on petrol, which is the solution. I find it rather distressing that a prime minister candidate does not have better answers to the greatest challenge of our time. Nor do you have a response to what concrete measures you intend to take. You are removing 25% of our climate budget. You are talking about increasing international efforts, but you are spending 20 times more on reducing petrol tax than on reducing emissions in developing countries. Here the government is one of the most ambitious in the world to support developing countries for a transition to a fossil-free economy. China and India are currently more ambitious than the Moderates are in terms of seeing the future and that we need to turn into a fossil-free future. You have absolutely no action at home on how to reduce emissions here. You are talking about developing countries, but what measures are you proposing here? You have a fossil policy, Anna Kinberg Batra!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-69	Mr President, I would like to It was under a moderate Prime Minister that we became the country in Europe that has the highest share of renewable energy – I am proud of that! Where does it come from? It does not come from fighting jobs and entrepreneurship. Instead, it comes from affirming technological development and growth, giving opportunities for Swedish engineers, for example, to be involved in developing new energy technologies. Engineers from Chalmers are involved in helping countries in poorer parts with much greater fossil dependence to develop their technology. There we are again, Isabella Lövin! I think it is important that it emerges here what the Green Party's resistance to Swedish transport looks like. I think it is important that this message reaches out throughout Sweden, where most people have a very long way to a train station, for example. We need rail transport, but we also need jobs and industry with the best technology and as little fossil emissions as possible. Feel free to stand here and resell nuclear power if you like, Isabella Lövin. But the fact that we have industry and jobs – and jobs that people can go to – reduces our emissions, and that is the key to a better climate.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-74	Mr President and Anna Kinberg Batra! There are very good healthcare in Sweden, but there are also clear shortcomings and challenges. We have queues in everything from emergency rooms to vital cancer surgery. We have staff who stop because the labour situation is too tight and hard, and wages are often not very high. For us, health care is a right. In cooperation with the government, we make significant investments in the budget of county councils, such as maternity care. But for the Moderates, health care is a market among other markets. And your shop window, the very example of what it would look like throughout Sweden if you were to run the health care system, is Stockholm County Council. There you can see what a market-driven healthcare system means: running costs for everything from new hospitals to socks, over-establishment of health care where health is best and under-establishment where it is worst. We can also see how market-driven healthcare becomes an unreliable health care. There is a great lack of birth capacity in Stockholm. What does the moderate-led county council management do? You let a private actor start a maternity ward. What does the private delivery department do when you don't make the profit you thought? It's closing down for the summer, right in the middle of the birth crisis. Thousands of women who are going to give birth are worried. Many do not know where they will bear their child. Rather, the moment that would be one of the finest in life when you become a parent is surrounded by great anxiety because of this crisis. This gives the market women in Stockholm who are about to give birth. Anna Kinberg Batra! Is this a price worth paying for your market fundamentalism?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-79	Mr President, I would like to Even Left Party members didn't fall for that. Now we are not in Stockholm County Council but in the Parliament of Sweden. Let us look at the reality of what rich politics can do. Let us look at the draft budget. We Moderates spend 60 billion over the next few years against the 40 billion you were so proud of the other week or month. They are needed to meet a welfare challenge and an integration challenge in both municipalities and county councils around Sweden. I'm glad you're bringing up the situation with, not least, midwives and specialist nurses. You want to make life harder for them and take money out of their wallets. I don't want to. However, I want them to be able to increase and develop their skills. Therefore, we propose a degree bonus for nurses to attract more to the profession. It matters that you can do your job, that you can have competent employees and colleagues and that there is order and order in the welfare regardless of the performer. Listen to what Jonas Sjöstedt is saying here! He talks about the market and he talks about one of our county councils in Sweden, but he does not talk about how we as legislators should act to stop public or private actors doing wrong. Sweden needs to have order in its welfare, health care and school. We need legislation that makes it possible to have an inspection that tells us when it's wrong and we need proposals – it would cheer up if you had any – to improve the quality. What does the Left Party do for more quality and competence in healthcare, besides standing here and barking at me?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-86	Mr President, I would like to Among other things, the Left Party has received a major investment in maternity care. We have received new billions to the county council that are likely to be needed. But if you waste the money and let it disappear in private profits, they obviously do less good. You avoid the question that a market-driven healthcare system means that you tailor healthcare to the companies that will make money from it, not for those who need a birth or an operation. And when it doesn't fit anymore, when you don't make a profit anymore, then you quit. This is very concrete. It is something that your fellow party members have caused and want to cause trouble in more parts of the country. You must have something to say to the women who are about to have a baby, who are worried when a maternity ward closes and who may not get a place but are allowed to take an ambulance to give birth to their child somewhere else. Is it a price worth paying, Anna Kinberg Batra? You do not want to take the consequences of your own ideology and politics and what it actually means for those who are having children in Sweden today.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-90	Mr President, I would like to Last time I checked, the health care system was very much politically controlled, and that's how we can influence this. Let us look again at what we can do then and what separates the parties. I think it is important that the public commitment allows quality, that you get care on time and that you do not have to wait too long in queues. These are the ones that we have shortened during our time in government and that it is important to continue to shorten. Competence is needed in healthcare to get the help you need. That's why we want to improve instead of, like you, worsening the conditions for nurses, midwives and specialist nurses that care screams for in most county councils. We need order and hard work when things get wrong, no matter who runs the business. Jonas Sjöstedt doesn't usually follow up on that, but only argues against freedom of choice, the opportunity to choose that gave us, for example, 200 more health centres when we made it possible for more alternatives. All these should have good quality.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-94	Mr President, I would like to The images that reach us now from war Syria hit us like a fist punch right in the stomach. What we see is total destruction. It's similar to the tactics of the burned earth now. People are locked up in the besieged areas, hospitals are bombed, little children are dug out of the ruins, and humanitarian aid is not reaching. It's unbearable just to witness. Sweden is now doing everything in our power to ensure that the ceasefire prevails so that injured persons can be transported to safe hospitals and relief services can reach the hundreds of thousands of children, women and men who remain in Aleppo. Sweden uses all its contacts both in the EU and in the UN to bring this hell to an end. Anyone who opposes a truce assumes a very great responsibility. Helping to stop the bombings and sieges in order to create the conditions for a political solution in Syria will be one of the biggest challenges when Sweden joins the UN Security Council in January but also the most important. Never before has our everyday lives been affected so much by the challenges of our world – the wars, the refugee crisis and the climate threat. But we are also affected by the opportunities of the global economy, by digitalisation, free trade, by all new ways of communicating, travelling and living sustainable lives. The world is therefore both black and white. We face enormous challenges but also great opportunities. Here Sweden and the government have made a very clear choice. We don't choose isolation. We choose international engagement. We want to help create more free and equal societies, and we want to contribute to peace and justice around the world, because we know that we are stronger together. Mr President, I would like to It is now half-time in the term of office. When we gained the voter's confidence two years ago, it was because something was falling apart in our country. Youth unemployment was sky high. The school results were in free fall. There were housing shortages in more than 180 municipalities. The security of welfare had been eroded. The number of socially vulnerable areas had increased sharply. In 2014, we had fallen in the World Economic Forum's ranking of countries' competitiveness from place three to a tenth place. Sweden was lagging behind in the area by area. For eight years, priority was given to tax cuts before investments in the common. This is how Sweden is driven backwards. That's how the cohesion breaks down. That's how insecurity increases.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-102	Our government has changed direction for Sweden. Step by step, we build up what was torn down during your eight years. Society is now ahead of tax cuts. The welfare billions contribute to smaller children's groups in preschool and to the elderly having more time with the staff. We invest in school, 10 billion a year so that more can be hired. So far, in just two years, we've had 13,000 more employees in school. Mr President, I would like to Let's move on. We will also develop the Swedish model with better healthcare. Many people feel a legitimate concern that care should not be there when they need it. Minister of Health Gabriel Wikström has therefore been commissioned to work on a new accessibility reform for healthcare services throughout the country. Through, among other things, strengthened health centres, care should be brought closer to people. The patient's position should be strengthened with patient contracts, and the possibilities of digitalisation should be used to improve care and facilitate people's contact with care. A good healthcare system throughout Sweden requires more resources, not tax cuts and cuts.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-106	The work of the whole government is guided by an ambitious target for jobs: we will reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. I won't give up until we get there. I am not satisfied, despite the fact that the employment rate is the highest in Europe, despite the increase in business start-ups, despite the growth of the restaurant industry, although foreign investment is increasing and youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. I am not satisfied – far from it. Over 350 000 people are still unemployed, and many asylum seekers who are granted a residence permit will also be on the Swedish labour market in the next few years. We have changed the migration policy so that fewer asylum seekers will go to Sweden and more to other countries. It has produced results. Now the focus is on those who can stay in Sweden to learn Swedish quickly, start working and be able to do the right thing. It will require great effort; there is no doubt about it. However, I see the possibilities when the number of jobs in Sweden is growing. For this reason, 70 000 new places of study will be created at universities, adult education and universities of applied sciences throughout Sweden. We develop more easy ways to work, in the state, in the municipalities and in the private business sector. It is for the elderly with short education who have recently come to Sweden. Everyone who can work is going to work. It should also be possible to live on your salary. The working conditions should be good. This is the foundation of the Swedish model, and it is the Swedish model we are going to develop. Thanks to good real wage increases for broad employee groups, we have stable private consumption in the Swedish economy. We do not have low wages in Sweden. Instead, we have high growth. That's much better.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-115	We have a general welfare that makes it possible to combine family and working life. This is crucial for a high level of participation in the labour force. This is what you want to break in the bourgeois opposition, and you are cheered on by the Swedish Democrats. You say no to collective wages. You are even prepared to go as far as to go in and lower people's wages. You are cutting down on the welfare billions that are so much needed in municipalities and county councils. In your budgets, you propose tax cuts of a total of SEK 80 billion. Last year it was 64; now it was 80. You say no to stopping the houndless pursuit of profit that we have seen in welfare. You want to reintroduce the backlog of health insurance – the one who proved to have led to nothing more than the fact that the sick became poor and that the sickness rates increased. You want to seriously reduce unemployment insurance. Unfortunately, this is nothing more than a decommissioning plan for the Swedish model. I also see the very big challenges facing Sweden. But I want something completely different. I want to build on what is good for Sweden. I believe in a society that holds together, where we share each other's burdens but also each other's successes and where we care about each other. The beauty of that is that it's not just a beautiful idea– it's a success strategy. This is how the Swedish model is built. It delivers an equal society with a high standard of living, and it gives us strength in the increasing global competition. That is why the Swedish model should not be phased out; it should be developed.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-126	Mr President, I would like to It is October 12 today, but you can almost believe that it is May Day when you listen to the Prime Minister. However, I agree with him on one thing: anyone who can work should also work. That's a good thing to say. That is why we in the Moderates conclude that we will enable more jobs through better ways from grants to work, tripled RUT reform and many more ways into the labour market so that you can get that first job under orderly conditions. Instead, the government invests in 5 000 so-called modern preparedness jobs in the state, where you should, among other things, copy paper and scan documents in places such as the Radiation Safety Authority, the Board for Homeless Affairs and the Fortifications Agency. Although Sweden sometimes has a lot of bureaucracy, it is easy to wonder if there are so many documents that would be needed to give jobs to all those who are excluded. How many more simple jobs does the Prime Minister intend to create?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-131	Mr President, I would like to May Day is a great day. Anna Kinberg Batra should try to join at some point. You're welcome next year.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-132	It is important to take this seriously and try to get to grips with what the labour market actually looks like. The government takes the establishment very seriously. That is why, among other things, we are investing in a knowledge boost with 70 000 new training places. Today we have 100 000 jobs that are not added. What is the reason for that? Well, employers don't find the right skilled workforce. What's the signal for that? It's education. We have 70 000 new training places. We are investing in fast track for newcomers, for those who have vocational training and skills in jobs where we have a shortage. We also invest in simpler ways for the elderly with low education. We do so with subsidised jobs and modern preparedness jobs, but also for those with some shorter vocational training courses that do not require that much prior knowledge. Everyone who can work is going to work. The labour market is moving in the right direction, but we have a number of people who find it more difficult to enter the labour market. That's what we're gonna do. But we're not going to do it with lower wages. Those who have looked at this clearly say that if we are to reduce wages, they must be reduced so much that they cannot live on. Then you still have to have support or maybe two three jobs. This is not the future of Sweden. It is not the Swedish model. In addition, with this strategy, employers who do not currently have the right skilled workforce are still without the right skilled workforce. It is not the Swedish model. The question is, why are you so hard? Why do you want to phase out the Swedish model by reducing taxes, cutting down, continuing the profit hunt in school and pushing down wages and conditions? On 13 November, there will be a vote in plenary if you too are prepared to stop wage dumping with the help of Swedish tax funds. Are you prepared to do that?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-140	Mr President, I would like to That last question, to appeal for Swedish Democratic support for the government's procurement bill, may the Prime Minister bring Jimmie Åkesson. The Alliance's positions are known.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-141	May 1st next year I imagine that it is nice spring weather and that we write the answer to the government's spring bill, because if it continues like this, there will be no mention of the jobs in it either. That's a serious problem, Stefan Löfven. The number of people referred to today by the Prime Minister is hundreds of thousands of people in exclusion – over 900 000 today. We do not differ in terms of education. With regard, for example, to vocational training, we are the same in our proposals. What makes us different is if you take seriously the great alienation that risks tearing society apart, if you take seriously how difficult it is to get your first job in Sweden and if you seriously intend to give more people that opportunity. How do you really do that, Stefan Löfven?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-143	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates themselves have noted that the socially vulnerable areas increased during your reign, Anna Kinberg Batra. One of the major reasons for that is that you were careless with investment in education. You were so busy lowering taxes that you didn't even bother that people who needed an education to get on with it would get it. You ignored that, and that is why, today, 100 000 people are missing who can take the jobs that actually exist. Every time you think about this line shift, Anna Kinberg Batra, remember to compare unemployment trends during your time with that during our time! I don't look careless at this. We have to move on. It is not low wages that are the answer. You don't even know what happens to your low wages. You're like four of you playing blind buck. You put on your blindfolds, and you take a chance: I think it will be 16,000, and I think that will be the case. You do not understand this. Don't go into wage formation! It is not low wages that apply, it is low wages, low conditions and more jobs for the people.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-146	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! We have heard a few times now, not least in connection with Stefan Löfven and the Finance Minister presenting their draft budgets, that Sweden is doing well, that growth is high, that jobs come and grow and that everything is peace and joy. But today Stefan Löfven says he's not happy. I understand that. One group that I do not think is satisfied either is the poorest pensioners. I listened to Stefan Lövven's declaration of government, I listened to the presentation of the budget and I listened to his speech now, but he does not say anything about this group. At the same time, poor pensioners are a group that has almost doubled over the last ten years. Ideal organisations, such as the Stockholm City Mission, testify to a catastrophic situation in which people in Sweden today are forced to take help from the City Mission or other non-profit aid organisations to get food and not starve. We have a little more than 230 000 older people in our country today living on a income that is lower than that which the EU considers to be the poverty threshold. My question to Stefan Löfven is, is it supposed to be like that? Is it reasonable in a country that Stefan Löfven says should stick together? Is it really worthy of a welfare society like the Swedish one? I don't think Stefan Löfven thinks so. Then the question is: why do you do nothing for the group of poorest pensioners, Stefan Löfven? You're not doing anything.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-150	Mr President, I would like to With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, resources for health care and care are reduced. Many elderly people need care and care, and you are cutting it down, Jimmie Åkesson. How do retired people's lives get better when they reduce health care? We invest in health care and care. More than 99 per cent of Sweden's pensioners receive an average increase in income of SEK 500 per month, approximately. That's good. Unfortunately, some of the poorest have been reduced in income. I don't think that's good. In essence, I think that the system we have, in which the most deprived people follow the trend in prices, is right in essence, because it protects against price rises. But it has demonstrably also had the negative effect of reducing income in other times. I do not think that is to the full, and that is why we should review the basic protection of those who have the worst. But it would be honorable if the Swedish Democrats could admit that in autumn 2014 you chose to vote against a tax reduction for pensioners, Jimmie Åkesson. But then you were so preoccupied that, as you had put it, give them hell. It was your answer to how the situation in this House would be handled – give them hell. It was more important than standing up for pensioners. We had tabled a motion at Parliament's table which, if it had been passed, had already reduced Sweden's pensioners' tax rates in 2015. You voted no-- are you proud of that, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-155	Mr President, I would like to I am proud that we did what we could to remove an incompetent government. What Stefan Löfven says is only half the truth. The fact is that my party had also tabled a budget motion which contained a substantial tax cut for pensioners. It voted Stefan Löfven against. The Social Democrats have done so year after year. We are now presenting a corresponding proposal in which we will remove the entire pensioner's tax from 1 January 2017. Will you vote in favour of that proposal, Stefan Löfven? If not, are you proud that you are voting against a tax reduction for Swedish pensioners? I am pleased there, Mr President.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-159	Mr President, I would like to You should be, Jimmie Åkesson. You didn't even vote for your own motion. How can you trust the Swedish Democrats when you present a motion but vote for another one? It's not a very successful strategy. What the Swedish Democrats are doing, others have to think about. At least I don't get it. You had an opportunity to ensure that pensioners have reduced taxes, but you did not. The main question remains: You cannot explain how less money for the municipalities and county councils – to our welfare – will make our society better, not least for our pensioners. In fact, they are the ones who have ensured that you and I, Jimmie Åkesson, live in the country in which we live today. They deserve a good and safe old age. Then elderly care and health care should have more resources, not less, as the Swedish Democrats want. Let's go, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-161	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Sweden needs more jobs and stronger companies. Sweden needs more reforms that lower the thresholds into the labour market and ensure that companies can grow, start up and develop throughout the country. The Center Party was involved in carrying out a number of such reforms during the time of the Alliance. The RUT deduction was a job success, so was the ROT deduction. They have strengthened companies throughout the country. They have given more people a job to go to and have done black jobs white. Much of this is now destroying Prime Minister Stefan Löfven by cutting the ROT deduction from 50 to 30 percent. We are already seeing that the reduction has led to fewer companies in the ROT sector, fewer jobs and a worrying return from white to black jobs. One in four ROT customers has failed. This is a worrying development. The Center Party therefore wants to restore ROT at the turn of the year so that both the family and the pensioner can afford to renovate and so that jobs and businesses can grow throughout the country. The government hijacked the ROT deduction even though Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats promised something else in the election movement. Instead, this electoral breach should finance inefficient building subsidies in the big city – subsidies that even those who are going to receive them do not want. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson has also said that those who lose their jobs in small companies in Norrbotten, for example, can move to the big city and renovate the million-dollar programmes. That is a startling statement to say the least. This is a new form of social democratic tax exchange. You take from families with children, craftsmen, carpenters, painters and electricians and give to rich developers in the city. I would therefore like to ask Stefan Löfven: Why do the Social Democrats think it is more important to invest in inefficient and poor construction subsidies than to maintain and develop ROT companies in Värnamo and Ådalen?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-166	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by reminding you of some of the Center's achievements in government. One was the youth worker's contribution. It cost over SEK 100 billion and led to higher youth unemployment. The second was the investment in start-up slots. You sent in the private market to help the new arrivals. It ended with fiffles, cheating and fraud. Säpo had to go in and look at how things were really going with this. There are those – not the Social Democrats and I do not think any Social Democratically close newspaper – who have expressed it as saying that the Center has made this frivolous and systematic, that the state should be an ATM for financial crime. You have to be careful how money is spent. We make sure to expand RUT with gardening, IT and floating services, and it creates more opportunities. As far as ROT is concerned, we must be able to look at the whole construction sector. What's it look like? Carpenters, painters and electricians are not trained just to rebuild. They can build new ones, too. You left behind a housing shortage. We have a housing shortage in over 180 of Sweden's municipalities. That means that people can't move where the jobs are. Young people cannot move to where they have been given their place of study. They can't move. This hampers Swedish competitiveness. That's why we went down from third to tenth place. Now we want to build more. The forecast for next year shows that we will be up to 61,500 newly started homes. That's a 50% increase in three years. It is clear that an electrician might as well be on a construction site where new construction is being built as where it is being rebuilt. Or does Annie Lööf believe that electricians, carpenters and others in the construction sector are only trained for conversion? Doesn't Annie Lööf also think it's good that we're building new ones?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-171	Mr President, I would like to We all agree that we need more housing in this House, just as most people, apart from the government, think that building subsidies are ineffective. Only the government maintains that building subsidies are good. Even those who will receive them in order to build don't want them because they drive up the price of building. We've tested subsidies before. It's inefficient, it's expensive and it's bad. I want to see a housing building throughout the country, and it is remarkable that the Minister of Finance in Stefan Lövven's government says that the construction worker can move from Norrbotten to the big city to build housing. Now I'm going to give Stefan Löfven a chance to answer the question about the ROT deduction. I have still not heard why Stefan Löfven prioritises subsidising construction companies in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö at the expense of companies throughout the country and at the expense of small businesses, painters, carpenters and electricians throughout the country. They're resigning now. What does Stefan Löfven say to his friends in the LO Association? For it is companies and ROT companies in Ådalen, Värnamo, Norrbotten and Skåne that are affected.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-175	Mr President, I would like to The construction sector is struggling and moving, and it is evolving. That's because more is being built now. By the time you took over in 2006, the construction had gone up, and that was thanks to investment aid. The Boverket carried out an analysis of the investment aid, and it worked just fine. It was judged, if I remember correctly, that one third of what was built would not have been built without that support. You took it away, and just look at the results! What happened to housing in your eight years? It sank dramatically. The population grew; housing construction fell. Now we have introduced this support again, and what happens now? Housing construction is now increasing again. Is there a connection? There's a connection.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-177	When I go to Kalmar – not a big city, but I go to Kalmar, but they would surely be happy to be called a big city – says small construction entrepreneurs there: This investment support means a lot to us. Now we dare to build in Kalmar too.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-178	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! Equal societies are better societies. You and I both know that's the case. Sweden was once one of the world's most equal societies. But something has happened in the last few decades. In no other developed industrial country, inequality has increased as rapidly as in Sweden in recent years. Today we live in a society where a very small group of super-rich, a few people, withdraws and controls a very large part of the country's wealth. At the same time, millions of Swedes are thinking about how the pension or income from the temporary job should be enough for the most necessary. One engine of inequality is bourgeois tax policy. The tax cuts went to those who already had. They also receive the large deductions in their declarations. We have a corporation tax where the flower trade on the corner can pay more SEK in corporate tax than both Volvo and SKF do. We have no wealth tax and no inheritance tax. We have a property tax that is not progressive. Sick, unemployed and pensioners pay higher taxes than those who have income from employment. It is a system that the bourgeois alliance rigged to always benefit the rich. They'll always draw the prize ticket. I want a tax system that benefits ordinary employees, ordinary pensioners and ordinary small businesses and not the absolutely richest. That's how we get through welfare. This is how we build Sweden more equally. We want to. The question is: what do the Social Democrats want today? We can decide this in the budget. If you take your foot off the brake, we can build a tax system that ensures long-term welfare and that actually makes Sweden more equal. Are you prepared to make these changes?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-183	Mr President, I would like to We have just put a budget on Parliament's table, and it is clear what we think in fiscal policy. We have an investigation in progress to ensure that we also have fairer taxation of the financial sector, because there is much more to be done there. It has now become so popular among the bourgeois that although it is not possible to implement until 2018, they count on it in the 2017 budget. The most important thing for equality knows both you and I, Jonas Sjöstedt, are the jobs. We have both stood there on the factory floor, and we know that it is then that people can gain their freedom and develop their lives. It's the jobs, it's the jobs, it's the jobs. That is what governs me and all my political action. We are going to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. It will require action in the field of taxation, as we have done, but the most important thing is to ensure that business policy works. We must also include in this: What does our world look like? We are completely dependent on the conditions of a global economy, not least in the EU where we export about 70% of our goods. But the whole global economy matters. We'll have to take that whole picture in and see what it looks like. What are the competitive conditions? How will Swedish companies be strengthened? Then taxes are of some importance, but above all they are innovation and new products. That's why we're investing these resources. That's the most important thing. Ensuring people get into work increases equality at its most. That's my focus. We can make adjustments in taxes, yes. We will do so in 2018 when the financial sector will have to pay more, but that is not the main focus, but we ensure that both taxes and innovation, enterprise policy and labour market policy work. People are going back to work.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-189	Mr President, I would like to In terms of work and investment and the need for good welfare, we are probably quite in agreement, although the level of ambition may vary. I know what it means to have a job. I know what it means to lose a job when orders no longer come in. But the distribution is also determined by the tax system – who pays his tax and who receives such a large deduction that you actually do not pay the tax that you were supposed to do. Here's the difference between us. I do not think it is possible to get a more equal Sweden seriously, or to get an economy that works for everyone and not just for those who already have, unless you have a tax system that is fair. That the florist on the corner pays more dollars in taxes than Volvo is not fair. The fact that the large deductions go to those who have tens of millions of SEK and buy the largest properties is not fair. If we are to build a more equal Sweden and an economy that works for everyone, we must do this. Lift your foot off the brake!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-193	Mr President, I would like to I think that Jonas Sjöstedt can at least look at the budget and take in what we have done together. What a heavenly difference that is! Eight years of bourgeois budgets all the time led to those who earned the most also getting the most. Now we've turned it around. Now we have a Social Democratic-led government with the Green Party. You have also been involved in negotiating, Jonas Sjöstedt. Now we have made sure that the budgets give the most to those who earn the least, those who have the worst. We've turned the whole thing around. That's a good bet. The most important measure that we will be able to do is to ensure that people get to work. To do so, we will ensure that we have enough tax revenue so that we can pay for good schooling and good education. For it is for all young people who are going to work that A and O are going to work. We started that now. We must always ensure that we have tax revenue in order to have a strong business policy and a strong education policy. People are going to work. We shall also be able to cope with international competition. It's absolutely crucial.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-196	Mr President, I would like to I have noticed that the red-greens have already talked a lot about health care today. I think it's necessary. The healthcare queues for Swedish healthcare have increased sharply since 2014. It is also interesting that among the county councils in Sweden it is in the county councils where the Social Democrats rule that the queues increase most. The two county councils in Sweden that have the shortest care queues are Halland and Stockholm. There the Social Democrats have been away from power for a long time. But the county councils where care queues are now growing strongly are all social democraticly governed. Why is it that way, Stefan Löfven, that when the Alliance rules, patients get faster treatment but when the Social Democrats rule it takes longer to get care?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-199	Mr President, I would like to I read a terrible story in the newspaper Aftonbladet yesterday about a MS-sick woman who died in a public toilet. She was MS sick. She had applied for more support from the Social Insurance Agency, according to LSS, but had been denied this. Instead, she received fewer hours of support. The LSS reform is one of the largest freedom reforms in Sweden in modern times. It was introduced by the bourgeois government in the 1990s, despite economic crisis. The number of hours given in support of disabled people increased sharply under the alliance government, despite the economic crisis. The current government believes that it is a huge problem, that disabled people get too much help. You have ordered Försäkringskassan to reduce aid to disabled people in Sweden. Why have you ordered major cuts for the most vulnerable people in society, Stefan Löfven?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-202	Mr President, I would like to A lie does not become truth for repeating it. The government has not made any decisions on any reductions or changes to the rules. It is true that the government is reviewing the development of the costs of LSS. This is because the number of hours is increasing considerably. We will see to it that the people who need help get their help. They must have their support. This is a question of freedom for people with disabilities. There is no doubt about it. But we see that the number of hours does not increase as much as the number of people entitled to LSS. Then we think it is reasonable to look at what it is. Can we reduce administrative costs? We must constantly ensure that the support goes to the people who need it, not to anything else. The government has made no decisions whatsoever. We see that there are two precedents that may have affected the outcome. Therefore, the minister responsible has now asked the authority in charge of this, the Social Security Inspection, to quickly come back with an analysis of the reasons for this. We do not intend to impair people who need their help. It is interesting that the Liberals choose to reduce health care. You're in the tax bench race, Jan Björklund. If we need more and better health care, why should health care be given less resources? I can tell you how it happened in the county council where I lived before, namely Västernorrland. During the previous term of office we had bourgeois rule there too. The bourgeois rule of the county council of Västernorrland led to exactly the same thing that bourgeois rule in Sweden did – large budget deficits. They turned a budget surplus into a budget deficit. And there is now the new majority with exactly that problem, which was created by the bourgeois. In addition, it is not as easy to make this work in a county council with a small population as it is in a county council with a large population. In Stockholm we clearly see what bourgeois health policy means. Save us!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-209	Mr President, I would like to Stockholm and Halland have the shortest care queues for patients. Maybe it's even more important than how county councils are doing. Stefan Löfven says something that I have to ask a control question about. He says that the government has not made any decisions instructing the Social Insurance Agency to reduce the number of hours. I have read a regulatory letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency from the government for 2016– it may be false; I don't know. It says:中 Försäkringskassan will help to break the development of the number of hours within the assistance allowance. ..................................................... It is an obvious order for Försäkringskassan to become tighter in its assessments. But Stefan Löfven says that no decisions have been made. Isn't this right?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-213	Mr President, I would like to What I'm saying is that the government has not made any decisions on changed rules. But it is right that the number of hours should increase. However, the number of hours does not increase in relation to the number of people who receive help. That is not where the increase takes place. No more people get help. We stand up for the LSS. People who have these needs will have them covered. This is a deeply ideological issue for me. But we must at some point, in this system, as in everyone else, have the courage to look at whether it is possible to prevent a cost increase, so that in the long term we can show that those who need it will get it and that we can always guarantee it. That's what this government stands for.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-215	Mr President, I would like to We have heard in the Prime Minister's speeches and in the replicas how satisfied he is with investments in welfare and in health care. But Stefan Löfven is fleeing his responsibility as Prime Minister for the dramatic increase in care queues that we see. When the Alliance ruled Sweden, the Christian Democrats introduced a queue billionaires. When the Christian Democrats were in charge of the Ministry of Social Affairs, 16 of the 21 county councils were able to deliver healthcare within 60 days. Today, the results are crumbling, Stefan Löfven. Only six county councils are able to offer care within that time. We Christian Democrats have managed to reverse developments in the past. We want to do it again, by re-establishing the cue billion you abolished. You have to take responsibility for the increased care queues, Stefan Löfven. Now that you see how they are increasing, is it not time to put aside the blindfolds and restore the queue billions?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-219	Mr President, I would like to Care queues increased already when there were queue billions. The care queues point to something else. The embodiment is condemned by the Swedish Medical Association. For it did not result in people receiving care as needed. It was completely different things that governed. It was a matter of getting as much money as possible into your own health care facility. Then the doctors were forced to make other decisions than they would have wanted. That was the lack of the cue billion. The Medical Association has condemned it. Let us at least take that profession seriously and say that we should find another system. Care queues should be reduced. Then you can't be happy with what it looks like. I'm not happy, precisely because it looks so miserable after your eight years, Andreas Carlson. That is why ambitions must be higher. That's why we need to deploy resources. What are you doing? You're removing resources from medical care. Then it won't get any better. There is a link between resources and quality. We need to ensure that people receive the care they need. That's why we're developing. We need more resources for our health centres. They are closer to the patients. We have over 1,000 health centres around Sweden. We have about 90 hospitals. What if we were to review the possibility of transferring some resources from hospitals to health centers? Then the care would come closer. It will not require less resources, not less tax resources. It will require more resources for health care. That's how we have to work. We must bring more resources, bring healthcare closer, listen to the profession and put patients first. They should have a patient contact that leads to them knowing that they are receiving the care they are supposed to receive and that they receive it on time. That is how health policy should be developed.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-225	Mr President, I would like to V in the Christian Democrats have been extensive investments in health care and welfare in our budget option. We want to introduce health care teams, we spend more money on maternity care and we want to reinstate the queue billions. Unlike the professional billion proposed by the government, the queue billions focus on results, not just on getting an agreement in place. But, Mr President, when you listen to the Prime Minister in this debate, you hear about the resources that the government is lending to invest in health care and to solve challenges in health care. We will also solve the challenges at school. When you listen to the Minister for Rural Development, he says that you should use the 10 billion for municipalities and county councils to solve challenges in rural areas. And what about migration, Stefan Löfven? When you listen to the Prime Minister, it sounds like the boy with the gold pants who brings out the money for the money and that the 10 billion will solve all the problems. It's not serious, Stefan Löfven.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-228	Mr President, I would like to The truth is, we're spending more than 10 billion. The 10 billion are the welfare billions that we give to county councils and municipalities and say: You can control this money just as you want. We want to give them that freedom. In addition, we invest in cancer care, maternity care and more staffing. That's our bet. During your time, the number of well-being in relation to the population decreased. There's a difference. Then I just want to say, don't take the road to borrow! You took over a budget surplus, just as the bourgeoisie of the county council in Västernorrland did. You left a huge deficit. This is the third time in three attempts now that a bourgeois government cannot keep a budget in balance. There's something wrong with you. I think it's because you're not very good at counting. In 2017, you expect to use the taxes we want to impose on the financial sector, for example, which will be available in 2018. That's no way to run government finances.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-232	Mr President, I would like to During Sunday's party leader debate on television, I got caught up in something that Stefan Löfven returned to a number of times. He said something like this: You have to look at what reality actually looks like. It is a good quality of someone who intends to represent the voters and the people, where we are in complete agreement with Stefan Löfven and I. Let us look at what reality actually looks like. Sweden has 53 areas designated by the police as vulnerable areas. These are areas that could be likened to more or less parallel societies with their own social structures, often with elements of religious extremism, high crime and a high degree of insecurity among those living in these areas. The police and other bluelight personnel are having trouble getting in here and doing their job. The summer has also been marked by car fires and sexual crime while there is a crisis in Swedish police. Statskontoret recently made devastating criticism – this despite the fact that the police leadership itself had been involved in influencing the content of the report. In addition, we are almost daily met with testimony from within the police organization. They tell of something that is likened to almost total chaos. Stefan Löfven, who thinks it is important to look at what reality actually looks like, nevertheless chooses to give an extremely good addition to the police next year. Most of the so-called initiative that Stefan Löfven has talked about before his budget release is in fact only in 2019, i.e. when Stefan Löfven is probably no longer Sweden's Prime Minister. When the government presented its budget a couple of weeks ago it was pointed out that Sweden is doing well. If we look at what reality actually looks like, we are in a boom, but Stefan Löfven must borrow to finance his reforms. It is not responsible, and it is definitely not a sign that Sweden is doing very well, quite the opposite. More than 350 000 people in this country are unemployed. That is about 7% of the workforce. Stefan Lövven's promise of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 seems quite remote, even according to the government itself. In principle, it would take halved unemployment to achieve this goal. In the election campaign, Stefan Löfven promised 32 000 trainee jobs. So far, it's become a hundred. He promised 20,000 training contracts. It has so far become barely a thousand. He promised 20,000 extra posts to replace Phase 3. It has so far become about 400. The government's employment policy is – despite Stefan Lövven's claims – a big, complete fiasco. We see extremely long care lines. Every third patient must now wait longer than the 90 days of the health guarantee. Child cancer care is in crisis. There's a shortage of staff, doctors and nurses. There's a lot of pressure on maternity care and dental care. The whole of welfare is under extreme pressure as a result of irresponsible policies. Stefan Löfven refers time and again to the 10 billion he sends to the municipalities. But these 10 billion cannot be enough for everything. They are not even sufficient to compensate for the enormous costs that municipalities have had to bear as a result of irresponsible immigration policy. The number of pensioners living on an income below the EU poverty threshold has nearly doubled in ten years. We are talking about some 230 000 poor pensioners, people who are forced to rely on non-profit aid organisations in order not to starve. For these people, Stefan Löfven actually does nothing. At the same time, waiting time for a place in retirement homes is increasing. More than a third of the country's municipalities have a shortage of retirement homes today. We have a serious security policy situation with an increasingly aggressive Russia. Then Stefan Lövven's modest increases in the defence budget are not good enough. Much more is needed. We have a country that is being torn apart by segregation and polarisation as a result of decades of mismanagement of immigration and integration policies. Nevertheless, labour market statistics continue to measure the degree of integration. Special solutions and subsidised fake jobs continue to be offered, while at the same time choosing to ignore the really difficult integration problems that we face as a result of valuation conflicts and emerging parallel social structures. This is, according to Stefan Löfven and his government, quite uninteresting as long as people have an employment at least an hour a week, because then you are integrated, according to the government. Mr President, I would like to I could stand here for a long time and continue this list of what it actually looks like in reality. Stefan Lövven's politics rhymes very badly with what it actually looks like in reality. It scares me when I hear Stefan Lövven's beautiful painting of the state of our country while Stefan Löfven claims to describe what reality actually looks like. Mr President, I would like to It is not enough to say what reality actually looks like. Politics must also respond to reality in order to increase security both in vulnerable areas and in society as a whole. Then we need a real effort on the police and on the judiciary. Not least, a real effort is needed to improve working conditions for the police so that those who are police officers want to continue to be police officers and so that more people want to become police officers in the future. We must ensure that those who commit crimes and create insecurity are found and prosecuted. In order to fix jobs in the long term and tackle unemployment, it is necessary to put an end to patch-and-tag policies. We need to get rid of subsidised fake jobs in favour of real reforms and real jobs. We must reform Arbetsförmedlingen by refining the employment agency's mission. Let Arbetsförmedlingen be an employment agency, not an integration project! Invest in small and medium-sized enterprises where jobs are emerging! Introduce real apprenticeships for those who are far from the labour market! In order to tackle the problems of health care and welfare in general, more is needed than simply providing more than is actually small money for the municipalities. In particular, efforts are needed to improve working conditions, more training places and more targeted money for those areas of care that are most vulnerable. Mr President, I would like to In order to improve the situation of the poorest pensioners whom I spoke about earlier, an increase in the guarantee pension is required. In addition, we want to abolish pensioner's tax from next year onwards. In order to strengthen our security policy situation and face the aggression from Putin Russia, a massive effort is needed on our own defence capabilities. Integration is a long-term solution by making demands, strengthening citizenship and making available what we expect new citizens in Sweden to become part of. If you come from another country and want to build a life in Sweden, you have to adapt. Then you will learn the language, how our society is built and how it works. You will learn and accept the norms, values and rules that apply here. You're gonna have to set up, or you're gonna have to live somewhere else. Politics cannot do this for the individual. It is something that the individual himself must want and actively strive for – it cannot be done by politics. However, politics can make it available and make it possible, and that is our responsibility. But the great responsibility for integration will always rest with the individual. Mr President, I would like to It is important to look at what reality looks like. However, it is not enough to look and then describe something other than what you see. Or could it be that Stefan Löfven simply does not see reality as it actually looks? If so, it's very bad.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-254	Mr President, I would like to I think I have with me far more reality in my luggage than Jimmie Åkesson. There is no independence that can even rely on the Swedish Democrats' budget to work and stick together. It is easy to promise around when your budget really does not stick together. Unemployment is actually falling in Sweden, Jimmie Åkesson. That's the reality. But I am not satisfied, for we have far too much steam left in unemployment. That's why we're going to go on. However, this requires the right policy. We have the right direction now, and in it we shall continue. The problem with segregation and divisions is that the Swedish democrats want to cut back on the establishment measures. How are we going to reduce the gaps and get people involved in society when you cut back on these resources? We look at this quite differently. We're gonna be tough on crime, which we are, too. We provide more resources and have more police employees than ever in Sweden. We must go further, but we can only hire people at the rate they are trained – unless the Swedish Democrats have their own warehouse with trained policemen. Besides, we're gonna get to the segregation for real. This requires tackling crime but also ensuring that the school works, the housing social area is fair, civil society is involved and people get to work. This is the basis for breaking segregation. For that we need more common resources, and the Swedish Democrats in fact want to cut back on that. There are more reasons to be critical of the Swedish Democrats: you are an anti-employee party. Why do you still want us to be able to support wage dumping with Swedish tax money? Why aren't you prepared to say no to that? There will be a vote here in Parliament when you have the opportunity, together with the four bourgeois, to vote to stop wage dumping. What is your answer to that?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-260	Mr President, I would like to The fine and clever, and the slightly tricky, with reality and reality description is that you have only your own. The very finest thing about democracy and what our society looks like is that it is the voters who decide who has the best description of reality. Then you can vote for the person you might identify with. We will have to let the voters decide whether it is me or Stefan Löfven who has the most realistic perception of reality. However, when segregation and integration are discussed, statements are constantly coming back that we in the SD would remove all the actions that the rest of you want to take. You spend a lot of money on people being integrated and getting jobs. Stefan Löfven and his government do. So did the bourgeois government for eight years before him. And before Fredrik Reinfeldt's government, Göran Persson's government did. Money is being poured across problem areas and over integration problems in the hope that it will solve something. But it hasn't. The only thing that Stefan Lövven's government does in terms of integration policy is to continue to make more of the very same policy that has failed for almost 20 years. Why on earth would I agree to support that policy? In my main speech I just described a completely different integration policy, in which we also take note of the value conflicts that exist in Swedish society and which are another major reason why people do not enter Swedish society. Keep your eyes up, Stefan Löfven, and look at what reality actually looks like! That is the most important and crucial thing.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-264	Mr President, I would like to If one is disappointed with this policy, I wonder why a policy that makes it worse. What do the Swedish Democrats think happens to people who don't get into work, young people who can't handle school and when we have a housing segregation? What kind of society do the Swedish Democrats want to see? There will be a society filled with divisions, and these gaps will increase. This is not Sweden, and it is not the Swedish model. But again, Jimmie Åkesson, you twitch your shoulders at the double waltz. Before the elections, you said that you are against profits in welfare and that it is nothing good. Now you're for profits in welfare. Before the elections, you also said that you should try to stop the wage dumping that is taking place with tax funds today and instead make demands on collective agreement conditions when we do procurements for SEK 600 billion per year in state, county councils and municipalities. Now you think it's okay with wage dumping. What happens in the Swedish Democrats when you turn 180 degrees? Why is it important for taxpayers' money to support wage dumping? Tell that to the employees!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-266	Mr President, I would like to I think Stefan Löfven can tell us that he cannot do anything about wage dumping because he is not prepared to renegotiate our EU membership. Unfortunately, that is the case. Those are facts. Stefan Löfven wonders why we want to make things worse. We already know what your policy leads to. We've seen that for 20 years, and it doesn't help anything. Is it not reasonable, then, to reconsider and do in a different way? Perhaps you should change your analysis instead of just continuing with exactly the same policies as you have always done and which have never worked. Perhaps some new clever names have been found for the reforms, but they are exactly the same failed policy. Come with something new instead! Let us talk about wage dumping! You could have come to us and say that you want to do something about wage dumping. We've been appealing to you for six years. Instead of coming to us and discussing this, you are throwing forward a proposal and expect us to give you our support for exactly everything in your policy. That, of course, cannot happen. If you want your policy through when you are a minority government, you actually have to negotiate the policy.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-269	Mr President, I would like to I have a rather simple question in view of the fact that Jimmie Åkesson raised the important issue in our surrounding world about the revanschist Russia and the increasingly advanced and threatening behaviour in our neighbourhood with, for example, hybrid information and threatening behaviour, the movement of robots and a lot of other things. In fact, party leaders in this House should take responsibility for their parties, for their parliamentary offices and for how they act to stand up for Swedish values and interests, especially in a troubled world. I would therefore like to ask Jimmie Åkesson what responsibility he has as a party leader to ensure that there is no infiltration or security risks here in Parliament, in his office and among his members and employees.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-271	Mr President, I would like to Anna Kinberg Batra knows, of course, that the responsibility for everything that happens in the name of my party is ultimately mine, just as the responsibility for everything that takes place in the name of the Moderates is ultimately Anna Kinberg Batras. It's no wonder. Then we can discuss whether or not this is an urgent issue in relation to something that has happened. For example, I read the other day about a center party that acted politically under a false name, sent e-mails and thus influenced politics. Is he a Russian spy? We do not know, but it may well be so. There's got to be some proportion in this. We make the checks that we think are reasonable on everyone who is employed in our office. It goes through Parliament's security service and involves Säpo. When it comes to people who are going to work at our office and who may perhaps have access to secret information – there are some such things after all – there are in-depth checks. The question is, do the Moderates live up to this? Do the Moderates live up to serious control of all those employed at the Moderate Parliament Office, for example against the registers of Säpo and the like? Can Anna Kinberg Batra answer that? I have information that this is not the case.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-275	Mr President, I would like to The reason why I raise the political responsibility that one has as a party leader is that Jimmie Åkesson in her interviews seems as surprised every time there are revealed security problems in the Riksdag Office or in association with Putin-friendly forces in the European Parliament, anti-Semitic parliamentary movements are raised, threatening statements are made, or acts threateningly or even violently. Each time there seems to be some random individual event that Jimmie Åkesson tries to swear free from responsibility for. I don't think the Swedish people go for it anymore. As a party leader, you have a responsibility for whether you stand up for Swedish interests and values in a troubled world or not. You have a responsibility if you do your very best to keep order in your party, which can be difficult. Do you stand up for it and take responsibility as party leader or not? This ultimately affects Swedish security and our actions in our neighbourhood. That is why the question of Russian action and what we are doing to avoid risks associated with it is serious.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-277	Mr President, I would like to To be honest, I don't quite understand what Anna Kinberg Batra is after. It's a confused reasoning. But I agree that I have a responsibility. I now stand here and answer Anna Kinberg Batra's questions. That is my responsibility to take, just as I think Anna Kinberg Batra can answer my question, which I asked just now. Unfortunately, she is no longer in a position to do so in this change of line. No one should ever doubt that we stand up for Swedish interests and that we stand up against aggression by great powers or others in our part of the world. It is we, I would say, Mr President, who, in all the years that we have been in this House and far earlier than so clearly, have pointed out precisely the threat from Russia, the threat from Putin and the threat that we see in Russia, which is moving towards more and more authoritarian government. What have the Moderates done in the meantime? Yes, Swedish defence capabilities have been dismantled. It's not taking responsibility.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-280	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson! You repeated quite a few times something about what it actually looks like in reality. But you did not mention that the world is currently facing the biggest global refugee crisis since World War II. We have 65 million people on the run. We have 1 30 million people in urgent need of emergency humanitarian aid right now. These people you and your party would rather not receive in Sweden. You talk a lot about helping on the spot. As Minister for Development, I know that Sweden is making a huge effort to help on the ground. We are one of the world's largest donors. I see every day and every week how much help this aid provides in place. What you haven't made clear is that you and your party want to lower the aid budget. You have a target of reducing it from 1% of gross domestic product to 0.7%. This means a reduction of SEK 14 billion a year. Now you will surely say that you will increase the aid budget next year, but what you are not talking about is that by 2020 you will remove SEK 10 billion from Swedish aid. I would like to ask you: why do you want to give up the target of 1 % of bni going to help poor people? That goal is something that the Swedish people have been behind for a long time – since the 70s. How will this lowering make the world a safer place, and how will it help poor people in an extremely uncertain environment?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-284	Mr President, I would like to One often hears in the debate, not least from government, that Sweden is a humanitarian power, that we are so amazingly good around the world and so. And yes, on paper it is so in some sense. We are very good at aid in terms of money. We are perhaps in comparison with other countries in that sense a great humanitarian power. I don't have a problem with that. It's great for Sweden to have that image of us in other parts of the world. Isabella Lövin says that the government is doing a great deal, that Sweden is doing an incredible amount and that she sees the benefits of Swedish aid. The problem with all of her reasoning is that there is another reality. A very large part of the development budget has in recent years gone to immigration to Sweden – not to international aid, but to help people come here and live in Swedish society. It's a pretty ineffective way of helping refugees. Isabella Lövin herself addresses the fact that we have 60 to 65 million people on the run around the world. I do not even believe that the Green Party, no matter how real they are, believes that all the 60-65 million people will be able to come to Sweden or that the Swedish welfare can somehow help all those people in Sweden. And then, I think, you have to decide how best to help as many of these 60 - 65 million people. Isabella Lövin's answer is that we should have immigration to Sweden. My answer is: No, it is an inefficient way to help. Instead, we are going to direct the money to the neighbourhood, where the vast majority of people are. That is why we are making such efforts. That is why we are investing in refugee and humanitarian aid in aid, while your aid money goes very much to immigration to Sweden. It's not being a humanitarian superpower, Isabella Lövin.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-287	Mr President, I would like to I think that Jimmie Åkesson repeated the word I do not know if this reality check could also include that Jimmie Åkesson could see the difference between a refugee and an immigrant. We have a global responsibility for all those fleeing from war and conflict, fleeing the thin bombs in Aleppo, the ravages of Isis and the ravages of the Taliban in Afghanistan. We cannot allow these people to remain in a situation where they cannot be protected and helped. It is true that we are receiving refugees in our country. A small part of the aid budget has gone to help those refugees on the ground in Sweden. But, Jimmie Åkesson, you will not escape that with your budget you will remove 10 billion from what we do to help on the spot. We can do both. We are a humanitarian power, and we have received a great deal of recognition for this from the UN, the OECD and all other outside observers.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-289	Mr President, I would like to The fact that other countries are worse doesn't mean you're great yourself. It just means that you may be a little less bad than other countries. That is where you are, rather than a humanitarian power. I want to take note of something that Isabella Lövin said here and that I find very interesting, namely that there is a difference between a refugee and an immigrant. That's exactly what I'm saying. That is exactly what my policy is about. For Isabella Lövin refugee help is the same as immigration to Sweden. For me, refugee assistance is effective in helping as many refugees as possible. I make a difference between being a refugee and being an immigrant. The Green Party or the government don't. There's the big difference. That's why our policy is a much more effective refugee aid than your policy is, Isabella Lövin.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-292	Mr President, I would like to We can hear that the Swedish Democrats and the leading representatives of them have, in recent weeks, made it a little guilty that Russian aggression and Putin's actions are real. But it is only fog curtains to cover up the very disturbing facts that have been revealed not only now but for a long time. For many years in the party leader debate, I have been asking Jimmie Åkesson, who has bothered, how there is a pattern that keeps coming back and coming to light between the Swedish Democrats, the Swedish Democrats' sister parties in Europe and Russia's Putin. It is no wonder that the Center Party reacts when the Swedish Democrats consistently act in a way that supports Russia and Putin. In the European Parliament we have a number of resolutions in which the Swedish Democrats have voted. You have to take responsibility as a party leader. I have to do it as a party leader in my party. Jimmie Åkesson must also do so in her party. We see how Swedish democrats are flirting with Putin's political partners in Europe. The pattern also becomes very clear when it is discovered that Jimmie Åkesson employed not only one but several employees at the Riksdag who have links with Russia and the Russian regime and who hailed Putin and called him a great statesman. We are not alone in our concerns. It is not something that the Alliance's parties alone bring forward, but it is security experts at the Swedish Defence University who say that warning bells flash inexorably as regards Egor EgorPutilov links to the Putin regime. It's serious. For me, it's crystal clear. The Russian should not be allowed into the Swedish border, but also into the Swedish parliamentary corridors. But unfortunately Jimmie Åkesson seems to receive this only with laughter. He rallies, scorns, pushes away responsibility and tells others to answer. He has no responsibility in this. Why is that, Jimmie Åkesson? Why is the pattern so clear when it comes to links between the Swedish Democrats and the Russian Federation? Now answer for once!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-299	Mr President, I would like to I don't mean to laugh or to be rude in any way, but it gets a little bizarre. It is one of the worst conspiracy theories I have ever heard in this House. I don't know how to deal with it because it's so bizarre in some way. We have all been able to follow the reporting in the media over the past week. There was then a person who possibly had something mysterious going on in our parliamentary office. On the other hand, whether he was a Russian spy or not is not clear, and it probably will never be. But, of course, if it were, it would be very serious. By the way, he's no longer working. Annie Lööf now stands here and says: For several years I have been trying to get answers from Jimmie Åkesson regarding Russia and his party's connections to Russia. I have replied every time that it is we who have taken responsibility. It is the Center Party that has been in government for eight years and has been involved in dismantling our defence capabilities. I had a little fun going back just three years to the Defense Committee. It released a report in the summer of 2013. There it was the Center Party that wanted to soften the writings about Russia. There your representative in the Defence Committee said: Today Russia is not a communist dictatorship but more democratic. It's been three years, Annie Lööf. Then you stand here today and say that we have not taken responsibility!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-303	The conspiracy theory that you are presenting here and the bizarre accusations have only one purpose, and that is to cover up your own responsibilities and your own lack of responsibility when you were in a position of government. Don't blame me, Annie Lööf, for not taking your responsibility when you were in government!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-304	Mr President, I would like to Russian aggression has changed markedly in recent years. It has also changed the attitude of many parties towards Russia. We have increased defence appropriations when we were in the alliance government, and we have entered into a defence agreement last year with the current government. We consistently mark against Russia and have done so a long time ago. Council Decision 2013/743/EU of 18 December 2013 on the signing, on behalf of the European Union, and provisional application of the Agreement between the European What is so grave is that on the list of the Swedish Democrats it is stated that they have voted in favour of resolutions supporting Putin and Russia. They have hired employees who celebrate Putin as a great statesman. They cooperate consistently with political partners in Europe who cooperate or have dialogues in one way or another with the Putin regime. This is serious, Jimmie Åkesson. The Center Party is prepared to assume its responsibilities for whom we employ and what decisions we make. We do it every day. But as party leader, I don't stand and rumble or sneer. Now take your responsibility. Why is the pattern so clear to the Swedish Democrats when it comes to Russia?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-308	Mr President, I would like to The pattern is clear. That's what I was trying to say here. But that is not the pattern that Annie Lööf sees in her conspiratory brain, but a completely different pattern. Let me read out what one of our parliamentarians in the European Parliament has said recently about Russia and Putin: But when you indiscriminately lay bomb mats over hospitals and civilians, then it is not in the name of democracy that you act. – – – The EU needs to do what it can to get Russia to withdraw. This was said in connection with the bombings in Syria. As regards the annexation of Crimea, he said that what is going on from Russia to Ukraine in Crimea is not worthy of a modern society. –– As elected politicians, it is our duty to act forcefully on this issue. – – Let me be clear to you, the Members of the European Union, who are spreading untruths about our party. Russia must pack up and leave Crimea and Ukraine here and now, preferably yesterday. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to This is the policy we are pursuing in the European Parliament. Annie Lööf is trying to say otherwise, but it is simply not credible.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-312	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson! I got an e-mail from a taxi driver in Stockholm. His name is Yasar. He told me about his everyday life and what it looks like. He sits driving his taxi 11-13 hours a day, sometimes not five days a week but six days. He has a working time and an hourly salary that very few would accept or be able to live on in Sweden. The price he pays is that he sees his family very little. That's obvious if you work 60 or 70 hours a week. He is one of thousands of people in Sweden who work under such working conditions. It can be in taxis but also in other industries. We in Parliament have a direct responsibility for that. If we decide in Parliament that when public procurement is made of, for example, transport services, which are a very large part of taxis' income, we can demand collective agreement-like conditions in the procurement process. Then we can make sure that Yasar and his coworkers get to drive a normal full time and get a salary that they can live on. It is about the possibility of making a living and the security of tens of thousands of employees in Sweden. We have other examples of how tax money can be used. Cleaning firms are discovered where people do not even clean 30 kroner an hour. They are being used ruthlessly with public funds. We can demand that the nicest companies, with the nicest conditions, be given assignments so that people are not exploited like this. Besides benefiting employees and strengthening their rights, it also benefits good small businesses. It is the small businesses that are doing well, paying taxes as they should and ensuring that they treat their employees well. It will be a real competition and not a cheating competition. But you say no to this, Jimmie Åkesson. You don't want to make those demands. You tell Yasar and his colleagues: Drive your taxi 11 - 13 hours every day six days a week. That's what you say when you say no to demanding collective agreement-like conditions in public procurement.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-316	Mr President, I would like to I have not quite understood why the government and the other left-wing parties are beating their chests so tremendously when it comes to the proposal for a new procurement law, because it is rather toothless. No one should work for 30 kroner an hour that way, and certainly not by cleaning school premises. The law is already clear when we get to that. Such tenders should be rejected today and should not be used by those rogue contractors in their activities. If you don't, it's in the procurement that you've broken locally. There is no need for new legislation for that, and Jonas Sjöstedt knows that this is the case. In fact, the vast majority of municipalities in this country today are governed by left-wing parties: the Social Democrats, the Left Party and so on. If you have problems with your local politicians and how they choose to procure, you have to start by grabbing it instead of making a law – which certainly contains a lot of good. I think, for example, that the proposal on the responsibility of the main contractor is extremely important, because it makes it possible to get to the very worst cheaters and so on. But there are other things that, for example, mean that small companies, small family businesses in the construction industry or in agriculture, are completely disqualified from virtually all types of public procurement if the law goes through. Then there is one question: when it is really a question of having a European directive that we have to deal with and that we cannot change – is it reasonable that we make laws that punish Swedish small businesses while at the same time the benefits of this are so minimal? I find it difficult to make that priority. But I am prepared to discuss, for example, the main contractor's responsibility and other good parts of the bill with, for example, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-320	Mr President, I would like to Forgive me for saying this, Jimmie Åkesson, because it may sound a little harsh: You are ignorant, and you are a hypocrite. The law needs to be tightened up. It's extremely clear. We have the opportunity to tighten the law to demand proper conditions for Yasar and his co-workers. EU rules do not prohibit us from tightening up the law, as you have argued. The EU directives in this area have been amended. We have every opportunity to do this, and we have the right to do so. We have the obligation towards Swedish employees to do so. It is not the case that other small businesses are excluded. These are similar conditions comparable to the collective agreement. You don't even call for collective agreements. What you do when you stand here is say to tens of thousands of people who work hard in Sweden: You get to work for 30 SEK an hour. You'll have to sit in your cab 13 hours a day. You can't see your family. Instead, we favour the worst employers. You, Jimmie Åkesson, are the enemy of Swedish employees.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-324	Mr President, I would like to The employees don't agree with that. We have quite a lot of support in the LO collective, for example.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-325	Sure, maybe I'm ignorant. Maybe I don't know anything. In that case, I don't know because I'm so stupid. But the fact is that we have European legislation that governs Swedish legislation. That's the problem. This is what Jonas Sjöstedt knows. I may be ignorant, but it is above Swedish law. If you look at the proposal that Jonas Sjöstedt thinks is so good, you can see that it is a fact that you cannot make the same demands on, for example, posted workers as on Swedish companies. It's black and white in the bill. Swedish small businesses and Swedish companies are thus disadvantaged in relation to posted workers. It is an example of how to miss the target and how, unfortunately, the EU makes it impossible for us to move forward. But as I said, I am happy to discuss important and good proposals in the proposal seriously with Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-327	Mr President, I would like to Hédi Fried is 92 years old. As a young girl, she was a prisoner in Bergen-Belsen concentration Bergen-Belsen. She was lucky enough to survive and freed by British military in the spring of 1945. She wrote an article in Expressen on Sunday in which she wrote about the atmosphere both in Sweden and in the western world. She believes that it is reminiscent of the atmosphere in many European countries in the mid-30s. She does not say that we are in the s if led to the events of the 40's but in what is the prelude to what then happened. We all have a great responsibility for how we conduct the public debate. We can have tough debates on many issues. Nevertheless, I have drawn attention to two recent statements by leading Swedish-democratic Members of Parliament who make me extremely concerned about where we are going. The MP Anna Hagwall says that the Bonnier family should not own so many newspapers. One of the arguments is that they are Jews. There was then a message that she had had to resign from her assignments, but it turned out that she had not done so at all. She had to resign from the office of the Tax Committee. But she remains as a member of the Swedish Democrats for several more years. As if it were a tax problem that Jews should not own newspapers! Oscar Sjöstedt, economic-political spokesperson, stands and laughs when German Nazis stand and kick dead sheep and call them die Jew. These are unimaginable statements made by Swedish democrats. In every other party, these Members had been allowed to leave their duties. If they had refused to leave some of the tasks that the party does not have, they would have been excluded from these parties. In every other party in the Swedish parliament this had happened. Why is this not happening in the Swedish Democrats, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-333	Mr President, I would like to I share Jan Björklund's view when it comes to the need to keep a good tone, and preferably a factual note, in the political debate. Statements that somehow fall outside this framework should be highlighted in different ways. I think I do. I think maybe I'm the party leader who does it the most. On the other hand, I think there must also be some kind of intellectual integrity in the debate. We know what the media dramaturgy looks like. It is clear that both of the things Jan Björklund mentions are very problematic in each way. In one case, it has resulted in the Member in question having to leave a number of missions. However, I do not control the parliamentary mission; Jan Björklund knows that. You only control it yourself. We have done what we mean is possible. Then you can think a lot, but that's a completely different thing. In the second case, this is not the way it has been described in the media. That is not how Jan Björklund describes this. I do not know the context in which this has happened, but in some context people are literally described as completely insane idiots or something like that. Then you tell this anecdote, which in itself is very distasteful, and because it is very distasteful, the clip itself becomes very distasteful. For some reason, it's people laughing in the movie. I find it distasteful and unfortunate. But in principle you cannot stand here and seriously claim that Oscar Sjöstedt is anti-Semite, Jan Björklund. That's what you're indirectly doing here, and it's not fair to do it. It is not intellectually honest, nor is it honest in any other way, for he is not anti-Semite. Everything else that Oscar Sjöstedt does politically speaks for not being anti-Semite. It's about how he acts internally in the party when it comes to counteracting extremism or the like. I don't know what you want to say. I admit that was very unfortunate. However, in substance, Oscar Sjöstedt is not subject to any opinion that I cannot support.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-338	Mr President, I would like to This isn't the media's fault, Jimmie Åkesson. I have said nothing now other than what these people themselves have done and said. I asked how Jimmie Åkesson has acted. It happens, of course, in all parties that any person acts indiscriminately. It also happens in my party at some point, and then one must be extremely prepared to use the methods one has in the party's statutes. Of course, Jimmie Åkesson cannot dismiss anyone as a Member of Parliament. I know that; it is written in the Constitution. But Jimmie Åkesson can ensure that they do not represent the Swedish Democrats by excluding them from the party. With these statements it had taken place in every other party in the Swedish parliament, Jimmie Åkesson. This does not happen in the Swedish Democrats. The question hangs in the air: Why does it not?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-340	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund is right that it happens in all parties sometimes that some people speak strangely or that there are some who may not really fit into the party and so on. We have a number of examples. A board member of the Liberal Youth League has been convicted of Hitler's salute. It is quite unusual to be convicted of Hitler's greeting in Sweden, but now it happened to be a popular partyist who did so. I admit that this is in no way unproblematic. But Jan Björklund cannot say that this is what matters, and that is what I have to deal with here. This is distasteful and unfortunate. That also goes to the person himself, of course. But here we can be credible in explaining why we are doing this and in a credible way showing that we do not stand for opinions such as those we are talking about in this case. Oscar Sjöstedt has done so in everything else that he does in our party – most recently in the budget debate, where he expressed a lot of good political views.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-342	Mr President, I would like to SEK 2,500 a month is the difference between the Christian Democrats' and the Swedish Democrats' budget option for a family with two children who own a house. We reduce the tax for that family of children by $1,000 a month. You, Jimmie Åkesson, on the other hand, want to increase their tax by 1 500 SEK a month in your budget – away with the job tax deduction, increased VAT and abolished interest deduction. Jimmie Åkesson looks a little surprised here, but this is in his budget at s. 44, 45 and 46. Since you are not counting on the effects of your policy, we have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to do so. Then your anti-family policy becomes clear. Families with children pay SEK 1,500 more tax each month, Jimmie Åkesson. Your policy is hitting a lot of people in this country. You yourself write on p. 46 in your motion that other groups likely to be adversely affected are, for example, pensioners, students, single parents and parents of young children. Are pensioners, students and parents of young children groups that the Swedish Democrats think have good financial margins, or why does Jimmie Åkesson want to make it worse for them? Why does Jimmie Åkesson want to raise the tax for a typical children's family in a villa in Sweden by 1,500 SEK each month? We want to lower the tax on families. We believe in families, and therefore the difference every month between Christian Democrats' politics and the Swedish Democrats' $2,500.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-346	Mr President, I would like to What Andreas Carlson does not mention is that the whole proposal for an investigation that we have put forward aims at a fairly comprehensive tax reform to just redistribute to those who have the worst in society. Work income up to approximately SEK 150 000 per year shall be exempt from income tax. It's a tax cut for people. That is the very purpose. The text discusses how to finance such a reform. There is discussion of many different things, such as the removal and replacement of the current job tax deduction by a new deduction. A review of VAT rates should be carried out. The interest reduction is reduced or abolished at a defensible rate. Labour market policy reforms that have proved ineffective are abolished. The proposal is for a parliamentary committee to be set up to investigate the matter. Before this has happened, it goes beyond my mind: How on earth can Andreas Carlson count on this? The idea is that the effect of it should be investigated. If the parliamentary investigation service should then sit and count on something before we have even proposed it, it is simply not real. I have no idea what the investigation service has been counting on, but that can't possibly be our proposal, because there's nothing to count on. We say that VAT rates should be reviewed. It could mean anything. How do you count on it seriously? Of course, you cannot, and so does Andreas Carlson.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-350	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Jimmie Åkesson, we put forward detailed proposals. We have a fully funded budget. However, it is quite easy to count on your proposals. You haven't done it yourself, but we've asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to do it. You are writing on the same page that the tax reform that you want to carry out, with an increase in the basic deduction of 150 000 a year, the abolition of the general wage and sickness pay contributions, amounts to SEK 180 billion. Then you specify four different areas where you will collect these 180 billion crowns. You want to remove the job tax credit, review VAT rates and reduce the interest deduction. To raise EUR 180 billion from these various proposals in your budget, you will place a burden on Sweden's families with children, who will have to pay for your reforms. To put this on Parliament's table and let us look at it in detail is not serious unless you believe in your own policy. You tax families with children with SEK 1,500 a month.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-354	Mr President, I would like to This is simply not true. Our reform aims to make it better for families with children, for example, and others with small economic margins. That is the starting point for this. We do not know exactly what effects this will have until we have examined the issue and decided how it will be implemented. This is not calculated in our budget. Our budget is in balance, just like yours. This is a proposal on how to develop the tax system to make it better for those with less economic margins. Again, how Andreas Carlson has managed to count on this goes beyond my understanding. But we were told here earlier from someone else that I'm quite ignorant, so maybe that's why I don't understand. I think, however, that you guess, hips and pick cheap points. I'm sorry about that. I guess we'll have to come back when there's something concrete to investigate and count on.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-358	Mr President, I would like to A headline in Dalarnas Tidningar last summer made me in an extremely good mood: I am so damn happy to refuel! Who would have thought a farmer in Gagnef would say that when the Green Party is in government? But it's absolutely true. In Gagnef, Dalarna, farmer Mikael Säfström is setting up a new biogas filling station. Instead of refuelling fossil diesel in his machines, he can now use the waste from his farm to produce biogas. The fuel is not only almost free but also clean, and you get rid of the problem of waste, all in one stone. It's amazing, isn't it? And this will be possible with the government's climate action initiative. It is about 700 million SEK a year that goes directly to climate-smart projects, and not only to Gagnef but to the whole country. 500 locals on rojekt have so far been set in motion. In Anna Kinberg Batras Stockholm biogas plants are now being built in full, so that cars and buses can go on biogas and not on petrol, which Anna Kinberg Batra is so fond of. In Jönköping, your county, Annie Lööf, fossil gas is converted to biooil, and in your old municipality of residence Värnamo, charging poles for electric cars are built thanks to the Climate Clive. In Uppsala, Björk's bus company is now switching fuel, from fossil to renewable, so that Ebba Busch Thor can travel climate smart. In your county, Jan Björklund, Västra Götaland, you are now investing heavily in climate neutral ferry traffic. As climate minister, I become proud and hopeful when I see how the whole of Sweden wants to be involved. Thanks to all of you who adapt climate, build new, or just make it very fun to refuel! Thank you, Mikael Säfström and all other climate heroes, for changing Sweden! Mr President, I would like to We environmentalists have been talking about the green transition for 35 years now. And this is where it happens. If you don't believe me, look around the world! The renewable energy is growing so it creaks. Last year alone, world solar energy increased by 30 percent, and wind power by 17. And that's no wonder, because the investment costs dive. Since 2010, the price of solar cells has fallen by over 60 percent. Progress is far faster than we could ever have imagined. The Paris Agreement will enter into force this year. China, the United States, India, the EU – all point with all their hands: we shall have a fossil-free economy. Today, the Riksdag decides that Sweden will approve the Paris Agreement. And with the Green Party in government, we are well prepared to also implement the agreement at home. In two years, the number of rechargeable cars has quadrupled, and the charging poles have gone from 2 000 to 6 000 thanks to the Climate Tree. We have doubled the share of biofuels refuelled in three years. The installation of solar cells increased by 60 per cent last year alone. Mr President, I would like to In the past, environmental considerations were often put against jobs and the economy. It was believed that environmental considerations and economic development were two counter-pollutions. Now we know it's wrong. Renewable energy employs more than 1 million people in Europe alone, 400 000 in Germany alone. And we're in the middle of the energy revolution. Sweden should be at the forefront. That is why we focus on renewable energy and green jobs. That is why we are doubling the appropriations for climate research. Right now we are investing in order for Swedish steel production to take place without coal. Steel without coal can become a new Swedish climate-smart export success. We're going to export the smart solutions, not the emissions. Mr President, I would like to What I see in front of me is a Sweden where not only manufacturing and transport are climate-smart but all my life. Our investment in nature conservation is not just a cost. Since we took office, the government has designated more than 100 new conservation areas. And we have allocated money to trail systems in the mountains, care, information and more bridges on popular hiking trails. It's to make it easier for all of us to get out into nature. But it is not just me and us Swedes who enjoy when we can experience things like watching the sea eagle sail or watching moose drink water in the water's edge at dawn. The export value of tourism increased last year by nearly 18 per cent. 9,000 more jobs were created in tourism. The export value of tourism is now more than twice as high as that of the iron and steel industry. Through the uniquely large efforts to protect nature that the government is currently making and our determination to renovate the railways and invest in the rail network, we are promoting ecotourism, small businesses, employment and quality of life throughout the country. It's a modern green economy. Mr President, I would like to In fact, I was very concerned when I read the opposition parties' budgets. All bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats want to dismantle the entire environmental work that now enables the green transition. Everyone wants to cut at least 2 billion from the environmental budget. Everybody wants to get rid of the Climate Tree. Everyone wants to cut down on forest protection. How, then, are we going to cope with the climate? How are we going to make the transition to a sustainable society? Politics matters. It matters who controls Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Summer 2016 was a very dark summer in the world. For six years the hell of war has raged in Syria, day after day, month after month. While we are standing in this Chamber, people are fighting for their lives in Aleppo and throughout Syria. We see how the Asad regime, together with Russia, does not even hesitate to bomb hospitals to gain control of areas. Children, sick, old and trucks with food, supplies and medicines are bombed. Nothing is sacred anymore. Sweden condemns the brutal attacks with full force. Those responsible must be held accountable, whoever they represent – IS, Syria or Russia. In many parts of the world, we also see how human rights are under attack and how violence against women and girls is used as a war strategy. In this troubled time, Sweden is a great humanitarian power. Every day we contribute to saving lives and giving faith in the future to the world's most vulnerable people. We are a strong voice for democracy also in tough environments, and we support freedom fighters in a wide range of places in the world. As of next year, we are members of the UN Security Council. We will work hard to help build a more peaceful world, respecting humanitarian principles and human rights, and also allowing women to participate in peace-building. Without women, there will be no lasting peace, and without peace there will be no development. Mr President, I would like to Since the government took office two years ago, we have turned the policy around. Instead of major tax cuts, we have made investments in welfare, in health care, in school, in care for the elderly, in the railways, in climate change and in everything that creates security and confidence in the future. The government's construction of society has now begun to produce results. 120,000 more have got a job to go to. Housing is at record levels, and school results are beginning to turn upwards. We've started the green transition. We Greens want to continue to invest in what makes Sweden better for everyone. We want to create cities where people, not cars, are put in the center. We want to build a school that sees every student for it as it is. We want all newcomers to get a good start in Sweden with education, jobs and housing. And we want all of Sweden to live. This government has presented a vision for Sweden. We will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. It is a green and sustainable Sweden. It is a feminist Sweden. It is a solidarity-based Sweden. And it is a Sweden where all people have the same opportunity to have a good future.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-376	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by mentioning something that I think both Isabella Lövin and I think is good and important, especially when we take responsibility in a troubled world. It is the international donor conference on Afghanistan, where Sweden participated exactly a week ago. Sweden was also involved in promising continued support, which we have now given for some time, for reconstruction in Afghanistan. In connection with the conference, Sweden also promised to sign a readmission agreement. This is something which not least we Moderates have long demanded and which we raised during our visit to Sweden by the President of Afghanistan a while ago. I welcome this. I support the government's efforts to get it in place. This is important for young girls in particular to be able to go to school in Afghanistan and build a better future there and for Sweden to be able to take responsibility in an orderly way in a very troubled world. Today, the police here in Sweden have some 19 000 open return cases. It's no secret that it's been hard to make this work properly. Unless a yes is a yes and a no is a no, people risk getting caught, disappearing into shadow society and being exploited by criminals. And it becomes more difficult for Sweden to take responsibility. That's why I want to ask Isabella Lövin what she and the government are doing to get a readmission agreement. to work in practice.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-380	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Riksdag provides broad support for our support to Afghanistan – it is a unique long-term support until 2024. It's our biggest aid country. I would like to begin by correcting Anna Kinberg Batra. It was not the case that the readmission agreement was linked to the donor conference, where we have for a long time been committed to supporting Afghanistan. It is a question of building a country that is currently facing enormous challenges, especially when foreign troops that have previously maintained security in Afghanistan have withdrawn. The economy has just fallen like a rock. As a result, unemployment has increased. And the insecurity and the Taliban have gained more scope with it. It is therefore extremely important that we stick to our long-term support. When it comes to return, I personally have had talks with President Ashraf Ghani several times. I've been to Afghanistan. They have very big challenges. Today they see how many are returning from Pakistan and from Iran as well. As a result, this poor country has huge challenges. But it is true – now we have a joint memorandum of understanding with Afghanistan – that they will help. If we return unaccompanied refugee children, they must ensure that they are cared for and that their parents or relatives are contacted. Those who need support will get it. And if they come back, they should not risk being charged with various crimes, unless they have committed war crimes or anything else. This is important in order for these readmissions to take place in a legally secure manner, and it is about the protection of the most vulnerable.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-383	Mr President, I would like to I don't really understand what Isabella Lövin wanted to correct. Is she saying that the government has not signed a readmission agreement? That is the task I have received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I welcome and which I hope is also true. My question was how the government and Isabella Lövin intend to make this work. We have a situation of 19 000 open return cases, although by definition it is difficult to know how many have hidden and do not enter the official systems. The police are testifying that this is difficult. When you have a final decision that you can't stay in Sweden and now have the opportunity to go home to your country because there is an agreement, then you actually have to go home. But so far such police work has been met with strong and political protests from environmentalists of various kinds. My question to Isabella Lövin as leader of the Green Party and as the heavily responsible minister for these issues is, once again: How does she intend to ensure that this works and is also carried out?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-386	Mr President, I would like to The correction was to make it clear that we are not subjecting our aid to Afghanistan to the readmission of their citizens. That was the first clarification. The second was that the right of asylum should be respected. This means that if asylum is not granted, you must not stay. We have no doubt about that in the Green Party. However, it is also important that we ensure that the lonely girls, children and boys who are to return and in some cases even expelled are not threatened in any way – that there is a place to return and that they have relatives who take care of them. These are the discussions we have had with Afghanistan, where we have received a memorandum of understanding so that we can also see that it is safe to do so.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-390	Mr President, I would like to The government's budget has thus been in force for just under ten months. Yet Isabella Lövin stands here and beats her chest. She said that in the last two years the charging poles have been expanded in Sweden. Yes, for the Center Party and the Alliance bet on this, and that is what we are now seeing the result of. The green tax shift that the Green Party once supported has become a red tax increase. In addition, the Green Party in the government is now also taxing solar electricity and renewable fuels. These eco-partisan tax increases did not really come, if you say so. In the Center Party's budget, we remove taxes on solar electricity and taxes on renewable fuels. We should not tax renewables. In addition, the government increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship five times more than it increases taxes on environmental pollution, while the Center Party is taxing 26 billion more than the government in the coming years. It is the environmental performance that counts in Swedish environmental policy, and in the first quarter of this year Sweden's climate emissions again turned upwards. Compared to the first quarter of last year, greenhouse gas emissions increased by 2 per cent. During the Alliance's time in power, climate emissions decreased by an average of 5 percent per year. With the Environmental Party at the helm, Sweden's climate emissions increase. The Paris Agreement is a victory for the whole world. It is a victory that it is now coming into place, and it is a proud day for Sweden, which is going to vote today. But now that we look at the Environment Party's budget, we see that 75% of the historic environmental effort is behind the next elections. It's like the Green Party isn't in the government. Three-quarters of the environmental effort is behind the next election! How, Isabella Lövin, can Sweden be an environmental example in the world when you introduce taxes on renewables, when you say no to green tax exchange and when you put 75 percent of the environmental investments in the long term?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-397	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf! V i should have so much in common, and I'm very concerned that you're standing here pulling stories that don't add up. We are spending EUR 25 billion on the environment and climate during this term of office. We have increased the environmental and climate budget by 73% now, not in the future. If you compare with when Lena Ek and Andreas Carlgren sat as environmental ministers, we have increased the budget by 73 percent. That is the difference the Green Party makes in government position, compared to when you are going to be the green voice of an alliance government. If we could work together on some of these issues, we would go much further. Annie Lööf knows just as well as I do that this so-called solar tax affects very few solar installations. We're about to remove it. You have to have so much solar electricity – several properties or entire residential areas – to be eligible for this solar tax, and this is something that we have now looked at because European legislation should not hit those who are big on solar electricity in the future. We want to provide the conditions not to have to estimate for self-produced electricity, and this government stands by. We have a climate challenge, which Annie Lööf does not support, where we invest 700 million in part-financing climate-smart investments across the country that benefit small businesses and enable climate change. It is not the case that our budget has been in force for ten months. We tabled an amending budget after six months, and so do you, Annie Lööf. Stick to the truth, and maybe we can work together in the future!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-403	Mr President, I would like to I have no doubt about Isabella Lövin's and the Green Party's commitment to environmental and climate issues. On the contrary, we must be more forces working to ensure that the green problem really gets under way. But it is the environmental results that count, and during the time the Center Party was in the alliance government we achieved very many good and green results. What I note is that emissions are now rising with the Green Party in the government. Now emissions in Sweden are increasing. During the time of the Alliance they declined. I can also say, and it is black and white in the budget, that the government and the Green Party want to introduce a solar tax and tax on renewable fuels. When we look at the initiatives you have presented, 75% of them are only after the next parliamentary term. I don't think it's taking the green leader's shirt on. Sweden now needs green leadership, and therefore the Center Party spends 1 billion more on both G and international climate work as well as increased railway maintenance throughout the country.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-407	Mr President, I would like to We have very ambitious efforts in the future as well, but we are spending EUR 25 billion in this term of office. We have raised the environmental and climate budget by 73% since the Center Party was in the ministry, and Annie Lööf absolutely cannot escape that. It is very interesting that you have now accepted the increase in petrol taxation that the government has presented and that Annie Lööf has devoted a very large part of her political capital to talking about would destroy the entire countryside. Now she's for the n, and I welcome that too. I am also very pleased that you, too, are now spending money on climate finance abroad, but I am concerned that you do not want to stop the emission gap in Sweden. That is what this government is doing through our efforts. Climate change will close the emission gap by 25%. We have reduced it by 50% already, and you did not even have the ambition to do so. Instead, you wanted to reduce emissions abroad, not in Sweden. Sweden is supposed to be a pioneer country, and that is what we are also with the Green Party in the government.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-411	Mr President, I would like to I think it honours Isabella Lövin that she is almost the only one in this debate who has raised the refugee problem and the wars and conflicts that drive many millions of people from their homes around the world. We have a number of conflicts, not least in the Middle East, where people are simply forced to flee for life. Sometimes the conflicts are driven by the international arms trade. Our country also belongs to the large arms exporters per person. A rather hidden conflict today is the war in Yemen. This is mainly due to the fact that the Yemeni refugees are not going to Europe. The tens of thousands fleeing this cruel war end up in very poor countries such as Somalia and Djibouti instead. It is a war in which the Saudi-led coalition and Saudi Arabia have repeatedly bombed. Last time there was a funeral followed with a couple of hundred dead as a result. M an has bombed hospitals and schools have been bombed. This is an absurd situation. At the same time, Sweden has exported a lot of weapons to Saudi Arabia – a country that is a political dictatorship, a country that carries war and has troops in other countries. At the moment, Swedish arms legislation with rules on arms exports is being reviewed. I think it is completely unreasonable for Sweden to export arms to countries such as Saudi Arabia. We can see how they use their military. My question is: can the Green Party accept a change in arms export legislation that allows continued arms exports to a country like Saudi Arabia?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-418	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Sjöstedt, for the question. This specific issue has already been in the government. The government is very pleased that the arms agreement with Saudi Arabia has not been extended. We are currently looking at how to tighten up the democracy criterion for Swedish arms exports. Here, as Minister, I am responsible for global development policy. It should be a coherent policy, that is, a coherent policy in all policy areas. Then we need to see how things are connected. Sweden should not only assume its responsibility as a donor and for the humanitarian disasters in the world, but we must also promote human rights and democratic and peaceful development in the world through political means, trade and exports. Then it is extremely important that we do not export weapons to forces that are non-democratic and that threaten innocent people to participate in terrible, bloody wars. What we are seeing in Yemen right now is one of the forgotten conflicts, which I am responsible for aid. We need to work preventively so that more countries do not fall apart in the same way we have seen in Syria, Somalia and South Sudan. The list can be made extremely long. We must not just look at the conflicts and refugee disasters that are currently in the headlines. We also need to work long-term with what is happening a little obscure but that we can soon see flare up. I fear that the situation in Yemen is such a conflict.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-423	Mr President, I would like to If we are serious about not exporting arms to dictatorships and to countries that use weapons against the civilian population, Saudi Arabia should be completely excluded from any form of arms exports from Sweden. It is important to make a distinction in the agreement that existed on arms cooperation. It was primarily not about arms exports, but something else that was part of it. But the question is to be decided, and the proposals are to be presented. I wonder what the Green Party thinks. Will you say no to legislation that allows arms exports to a country like Saudi Arabia to continue? There I was missing a clear answer.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-425	Mr President, I would like to For the Green Party, it is important that we make a real difference. Arms legislation and export legislation are now being reviewed in a broad parliamentary context. Here we have worked very hard to get as strong wording as possible to make exports to dictatorships such as Saudi Arabia impossible. Here we are clear that it is our absolute conviction that Sweden should not export to dictatorships or to non-democratic countries that can use weapons against innocent people. What we are fighting for in the government, and what we have done in the past in opposition, is exactly that, but there must also be legislation in place that works and can be applied. I don't think I can be any clearer than that.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-427	Mr President, I would like to I want to talk about trains. There's a conflict of interests for every government in office– I know because I've been sitting with these conflicts myself– when it's going to be invested in the infrastructure bills. Should you build new things, or should you maintain what already exists? It's always the goal conflict. It is much more fun as a minister and municipal councillor to cut ties for new tracks and new roads and to take new shovels than to pyts into maintaining what already exists. However, if you do that priority, in the long run what already exists will no longer work. We all know that. The Alliance government increased the appropriations for operation and maintenance. We partially rejected some new projects. The question now is what the new government is doing. Then I see that one of the environmental party's most important election promises was that the trains should arrive on time. I brought here an article written by Gustav Fridolin before the election. It is clear that no government can fully promise to keep a timetable, but what Fridolin promises is a significantly increased level of operation and maintenance of the railways. That's what it's all about. You want to spend more money over longer in the state budget because it has built up a huge debt of out-of-the-box maintenance for many years and so on. It is full of such formulations. Then comes the conclusion when the Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration Lena Erixon yesterday evaluated the government's policy in this area that has just been presented. She says, "In principle, we can say that we have got what we need to manage to keep the status, but not to bring home the delayed maintenance. This is what the Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration said to TT yesterday. Isabella Lövin! Why are you betraying your election promise?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-434	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jan Björklund, for wanting to talk about the environment and railways. I can only say that, with your environmental and climate budget, you are cutting down every four crowns that we are investing in the environment and climate. You're taking away the entire Climate Tree. You are removing the urban environment agreements that enable public transport, that is to say, to move from traffic queues to buses, metro and public transport even in rural areas. The government has presented an infrastructure bill that adds SEK 100 billion to infrastructure in Sweden. It's a very big bet. In it we have indicated that we want to see rail maintenance as one of the top priorities. We are increasing rail maintenance by 47%. It's so the trains can go on time. This is because we are going to upgrade railway tracks all over Sweden. It is in order for people to be able to choose the train and climate-smart public transport instead of sitting in cars. Jan Björklund is against the high-speed train. It is a remarkable thing – speaking of election promises. The alliance stood with shovels and helmets and told that those trains were the future. This government still considers that to be the future. With the greatly extended framework of the infrastructure bill, we make it possible to start work on high-speed trains. Right now, we're on to a lot of ground. We must be able to move goods from trucks to rail traffic, and more people must be able to move in a modern way between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and further out into Europe.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-438	Mr President, I would like to I heard a lot, but I didn't hear the answer to my question. The Director-General of the Finnish Transport Agency said yesterday that the appropriations you give for the operation and maintenance of the railway in Sweden are sufficient to maintain the backward level, but they will not make up for the backlog – as you promised in the election movement. I repeat my question: why are you betraying the electoral promise?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-440	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Swedish Transport Administration still has to come in with an action plan that can analyse carefully what measures can be taken in the near future and in the longer term. The fact that we are adding 100 billion to infrastructure planning can hardly mean that the railways cannot be maintained. When we specifically state that rail maintenance will increase by 47%, it can hardly mean that it will decrease. We will simply have to wait for the Authority's more formal response before we can make an assessment. The government's will– which is more than one can say about the Liberals – is that there should be high-speed trains and that there should be investment in modern rail and maintenance throughout the country so that we can actually live up to the Paris Agreement, so that traffic can be moved from roads to rail and climate-smart means of transport. It's the future, Jan Björklund!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-443	Mr President, I would like to The night before yesterday the police were to check a vehicle in the Raspberry Mountains in Sundbyberg. It would be a routine assignment on an everyday night, but the police who worked that night would soon find out for themselves that there is no longer anything that can be called everyday and routine missions. When they left the parking garage, boulders and pallets were thrown at them. Fortunately, the police were unharmed, and they acted quickly — arresting a suspect offender. But then, Mr President, some twenty people appeared and freed the suspect who had been arrested by the police. This could be what it looks like. Criminal gangs are more or less taking over in place after place in the country today. In 14 priority residential areas, criminal rules are laid down. The gangs are starting to take control. There is, of course, a need for wide-ranging efforts on prevention, measures that lead to more people getting into jobs and investments in schools, civil society and the family. But a crucial question, Mr President, is that the police must have the necessary resources. We Christian Democrats want to employ 2 000 more police officers and 500 civilian workers as early as next year to relieve the police and get more people to work in external service. We want to double the task force, raise police salaries and improve working conditions to stop so many in the police. The government that Isabella Lövin is Deputy Prime Minister of claims that it is investing in the police, but all major investments are after the next election. You're shooting your bets in front of you. It is a betrayal of those who suffer. It's a betrayal of the police officers who need more collages. My question to Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin is: Why do you push your bets on the future?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-449	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by clearly stating that we fully agree that there must be law and order and security and security in Sweden and in the rest of the world. We are doing a very serious job of strengthening the police's resources. We are also looking at how the police organisation can be further improved. What surprises me somewhat in the big words that come from the Christian Democrats is that you want to invest a lot but do not talk about how much you want to invest in reducing taxes. There will be 29 billion in total, and together with your alliance colleagues, the tax cuts will be 80 billion. Of course you'll have to cut back on other things. Among other things, you take away the welfare billions to the municipalities – 10 billion that they can use for school, care for the elderly and all the efforts needed to strengthen the people who today experience great exclusion. There we need more social efforts to work preventively, for example so that young people do not fall into crime. This is probably so important to take into account when we talk about the increase in violence, which is absolutely terrible and which, of course, we totally reject. You are also cutting the staffing effort for elderly care with your tax cuts. These are the things that create insecurity in society, I would say. This government is investing in building the green society, providing security, security and confidence in the future for this country.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-454	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Isabella Lövin that we have a palette of measures and investments in care for the elderly. We propose a retirement home guarantee that we have financed in our budget. But it will not solve the problems in the 14 priority areas. Every third municipality currently employs security companies to maintain law and order and security in a public place. Record numbers of police officers stop, confidence in the agency is falling and the number of solved crimes is the lowest in 16 years. 10 billion in welfare investments to municipalities will not solve the problems we are discussing here in the party leader debate. Isabella Lövin! We don't save on the police; we bet. We spend nearly half a billion more on the police compared to the government already next year because the challenges are so great. Local politicians all over the country are now calling for more visible police officers who work locally and are in place to increase security. Isn't it time to start listening to the local politicians, Isabella Lövin?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-458	Mr President, I would like to We listen to the local politicians. They are very happy about the 10 billion that are not earmarked and that the municipalities can use for the efforts that they most need – in schools, in the care of the elderly or whatever. It is remarkable that the Christian Democrats do not want to give local politicians the freedom to put the money in the holes where it is most needed. Outsiders increased during your eight years of government. That is, unfortunately, what we are seeing from now on. The climate has hardened both for those who feel left out and for those who are inside. You have contributed a great deal to this by reducing taxes and making things worse for the most deprived. And that policy you want to continue – 29 billion less in tax revenue will be with your budget. You also remove most of all from the environmental and climate budget, those who want to protect creation. It's bad.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-461	Mr President, I would like to The world is reminded of every day. We can see how hailstorms of bombs have turned Aleppo in Syria into hell on earth. Pictures cabled out of there cut into the heart. People are being run away from a crippled Europe where populists celebrate victories at the expense of reason. Britain's decision to leave the EU makes the future uncertain for the European economy. On the other side of the Atlantic, a presidential campaign is taking place to hold the world's breath. In Sweden, which with the Alliance's policy escaped the financial crisis, there is a boom. But the world's troubles concern us too. We're affected. We're affected. Our challenges here at home are of a different nature, but they also require responsible politicians. The statement that reached Ericsson's employees last week reminds us of the importance of a good business climate in Sweden and of the drasticness of receiving notice of notice for the people affected and the places affected. The government must lead the way and facilitate the transition to a new job. Sweden is faced with a choice of routes. It's about responsibility and leadership in a difficult time, about having the answers to the challenges of the future, about the need for reforms that allow Sweden to stand strong even when the economic cycle turns downwards. The position of the Center Party is clear: Sweden needs a new leadership. Mr President, I would like to The basis for stable finances is economic responsibility. The Center Party presents a budget that is in balance in 2017 and goes with surplus in 2018, while the government goes with deficit in boom and borrows for expenses and grant increases. The contrast to the government's economic policy is thus evident. Unlike the government, we get plus and minus to go together and this without damaging tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to The Tudiation of Sweden is for real. It runs deep between neighborhoods and shores. It cuts between those who have good education and those who have not even finished high school, between native born and new arrivals, between those who have always had a job and those who have always been without. In the course of division, a new social sub-class risks emerging, parallel societies to emerge and insecurity to spread. But the government closes its eyes. One of the Center Party's most important priorities in the coming years is therefore to break the division and the social and regional split of Sweden. We do so through clear reforms in three areas. Firstly, we need reforms for more jobs, not least more simple jobs to enable newcomers and young people to enter the labour market. We also need to renew the Swedish model. We want to reduce companies' costs of hiring through lower employers' contributions, a so-called entry deduction. We triple the RUT deduction and make it cheaper to hire the first employee n. Secondly, it is a matter of ensuring security throughout the country. It is time to start feeling security instead of smelling fire smoke in the vulnerable areas where cars continue to burn. It is time that people in rural areas could once again have confidence in the rule of law rather than a growing concern about burglary and theft. The police need more resources and better working conditions. Therefore, we spend half a billion more on the police than the government next year for an accessible and present police officer throughout the country. Thirdly, prevention must be improved. This involves strengthening civil society's efforts to create more jobs through mentoring and internships, as well as resources for safer urban environments and crime prevention in the 14 particularly vulnerable areas highlighted by the police themselves. With jobs, security and prevention, we break the division. This is how we build Sweden stronger. This is how we show what new leadership for Sweden means. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party also wants to strengthen the municipalities. They get 50 billion more in general government subsidies over the next four years with the policy of the Center Party. That's 10 billion more than the government spends in the same period. These are important resources that can be used to reduce children's groups, women's health and better schooling, but also to improve integration. It is resources that are needed to cope with welfare and break the division, and that enable municipalities themselves to better plan their activities and make their priorities based on the needs of each municipality. Mr President, I would like to Every day, high-quality activities are carried out in schools, preschools, health centres and retirement homes, both privately and publicly operated. Hundreds of thousands of people have chosen preschool for their children; they have chosen both private and public. It has been listed on the health centre that suits your own needs best. In Sweden neither cash nor contacts matter. Selecting schools can all do, regardless of the size of the wallet. Unfortunately, this freedom of choice and justice reform, which has come to Sweden's students, older people and patients, is under threat. Well-functioning companies struggle with threats of closure even though they deliver high and good quality – far better than their municipal counterparts. For the Center Party, quality is at the centre. We want to see tough quality requirements and strong supervision for everyone, but we stand up for everyone's equal right to choose, regardless of background and income. The plans for the mass closure of Swedish welfare companies need to be laid where they belong, namely in the trash. Mr President, I would like to A reform agenda for more jobs needs to include a policy for the painter with his own firm in rural areas, for the farmers' long-term competitiveness and for the programmer in the start-up company that develops in any of the country's growth clusters. We cut the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship by 29 billion. We do this because jobs need to be increased and because the business environment needs to be improved. When I meet small construction companies and craftsmen, they testify to harsher times. They tell us that they are forced to resign their staff, that their survival is threatened and that one in four ROT customers has disappeared; it is noticeable. The Centre Party has therefore, as the only party, stated that we want to restore the ROT deduction to 50% after the government's withdrawal. We have heard today that the Social Democrats think it is right to cut the ROT deduction and invest in inefficient building subsidies in large cities. In addition, Sweden needs to be better at attracting the innovators of the new economy. This is why we are putting forward a proposal to improve the taxation of employee options, which makes it easier for startups and other fast-growing growth companies to attract the right skills. We spend 1 billion on broadband to increase competitiveness throughout the country. This allows us to say that all jobs are needed – that all companies are needed. Mr President, I would like to When you read the government budget, you are struck by the fact that so many of their efforts take place only after the next elections. Only after the elections will the majority of the money come to the environment, climate and infrastructure. It's like they haven't realized that this is where they're in the government. The Center Party chooses a different path. We are making crucial environmental and climate investments here and now. With a short-term investment in infrastructure of half a billion more than the government, we create the conditions for equipping and improving railway maintenance throughout Sweden – because the needs are great now. We are making a historic green tax shift of as much as 26 billion more than the government, where taxes on environmental pollution contribute to reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. There the government does the opposite. When we stand for a green tax shift, the Green Party and the government stand for a red tax increase. We also want to strengthen international climate action. The UN's Green Fund will receive half a billion more resources than the government will put in next year to help the world's poorest countries meet the requirements of the Paris Agreement. This is how we make investments here and now. This is how we get environmental results in practice, not then, but now. Mr President, I would like to The challenges of the future – the division of Sweden, jobs and climate – deserve to be taken seriously. This requires responsibility and action, and it requires a new leadership for Sweden.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-484	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf and I often have different views on things, and sometimes there can also be tough battles. Actually, it's something I appreciate. I think it is good that we have different opinions. Politics should be discussed, and we should exchange views with each other. That is how democracy works, and that is how we move forward. Then there are certain issues that should be kept together and kept safe, and that is not least the basic human values: people's equal value and equal rights. That's why I was going to use the replica time to raise my eyes, and I'm even going to say some appreciative words. In this time, 2016, wind quite cold and hard winds around the world. We are living in a troubled time, and in the West we see that racists have taken their place in several parliaments. We see threats to freedom of the press and transparency, and we see tolerance being challenged. At that time I am very happy that the centre leader Annie Lööf shows the spine, courage and leadership and is clear in her attitude towards the Swedish Democrats. For that, Annie Lööf will have a confession. It is not always an easy and pleasant task, but it has been taken on by the center leader. This is not the case in the fight against racism, and no door is opened here to the abyss that would open up if a government were to become dependent on the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament. We will have a great deal of debate in the future, but there we are united. However, there is one issue that I must raise with the centre leader, and these are collective agreements. We procure more than SEK 600 billion per year in state, municipalities and county councils. Now we want to ensure that that tax money is not used to dump wages on the Swedish labour market. Why is the Center Party against this? Why do you want to continue with the wage dumping?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-489	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear that there are different tones from Stefan Löfven depending on the day or hour. Only a few hours ago Stefan Löfven condemned me and my former alliance colleagues for not being able to count, because we do not understand anything and because we have destroyed Sweden. Now I'm being hailed for showing back row towards SD – here it's not my fault – and I'm happy for that. I have principles and stand up for them. But at the same time, I can see that Stefan Löfven only an hour ago stood here and tried to propose to Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats and sought support for the Public Procurement Act. I would never do that. The reason why the Center Party is against the government proposal is very simple. For example, we want Swedish farmers who do not have collective agreements to be able to deliver food to the kitchens in Sweden. For example, we want the 60 per cent of small businesses in Sweden that are closed out with the Government's proposal to be able to participate in procurements around the country. I think it is very important that not only large companies, with the muscles to be able to submit tenders in public contracts, can participate, but also the smaller companies. In addition, the government is making a departure from the Swedish model. After all, it is not for the parties to decide which collective agreements should apply, but for the authorities to do so. Stefan Löfven has also received criticism for this in his own ranks. I think it is an incredibly poor piece of legislation. The law council has sawn it along with the ankle bumps. In addition, it effectively ensures that small businesses, which create jobs in this country, are excluded from one of the most important markets, namely the public sector. As Stefan Löfven himself says, it procures over 600 billion a year. That's why the Center Party says no. We protect jobs and companies throughout the country, including the approximately 180 000 small businesses that Stefan Löfven closes out with the legislation that is now on the table.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-494	Mr President, I would like to One should have different views on matters of substance. I think it is good for democracy. That is why sometimes there is also a harsh exchange of words, and it is no stranger than that: we have exchanges of views on matters of substance, and then we stand up for values together. I think that's good. No, it's not like that. I don't know if you've got it wrong or if you want to misinterpret. There is no requirement for collective agreements in the proposed legislation. However, there is a requirement to comply with collective agreements; it is the Swedish model. Procurement is now being used in such a way that taxi drivers are expected to earn $2 an hour. This is how we use tax money to lower the wages of taxi drivers, truck drivers, cleaners and health workers. That can't be the point. Now we have a legislative proposal that takes care of this. You're against it. You are against the workers on this particular issue. That's too bad.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-498	Mr President, I would like to It is not only the Center Party and the other alliance parties that are critical of this legislation. The Council has, as I said, sawed the legislation along with the ankles. All the business organisations in the country have done so too. Trade unions also criticise the government for not complying with the principles of the Swedish model. It is no longer for the parties to interpret the collective agreement requirements, but for authorities to procure. I think it is important to remember that there are no anonymous people who are buying around the country, but it is usually politicians and officials who are led by local and regional politicians. Make demands! It's supposed to be a bit of order. However, collective agreement requirements also mean that the self-employed must have, for example, a number of holiday weeks and work a number of hours each day. That's not how it works in a lot of small companies. A huge effort is needed to get a great many of the companies that exist to go around at all. And this suggests a very great ignorance at Stefan Löfven about how Swedish companies create jobs and build their business strong.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-500	Mr President, I would like to There is a game where you throw things around, and you want to get rid of the one you get in your arms as soon as possible and throw it to someone else. I guess I'm the lump or whatever it is that the others throw around in different ways to win points against each other. It is, of course, a role that one can play in Swedish politics. Mr President, I would like to I can see that all the alliance parties are now standing here saying that they want to form an alliance government. I can see why they want to. But then there's the reality. We had a minority government throughout the previous term of office, and this term of office we have a very weak minority government. We are likely to have a minority government even after the next elections if this bloc policy continues to be cemented. Immigration policy and integration policy are areas that divide the Alliance. Annie Lööf has previously talked about 40 million immigrants to Sweden. She has said in some context that with an alliance government we will have a more generous refugee policy, that is, we will have a greater immigration of asylum seekers to Sweden. It also proposes increased immigration in its budget. But it does not budget for the increase in immigration, that is, it does not allocate any money. At the same time, recent discussions and the chaos of migration have clearly shown that immigration costs a great deal of money. Annie Lööf's economic-political spokesperson spoke in the Day – the other day or possibly today – and said: The idea of calculating the effects of what would happen if all our proposals were to become reality opens up great surprises in a budget. Then I wonder: why are you not counting on this? Why do you not spend money on the policies that you pursue?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-506	Mr President, I would like to I think it's time for Jimmie Åkesson to take off her victim's jacket. It doesn't suit you, Jimmie Åkesson. In different contexts when we have debates on the government issue Jimmie Åkesson always asks himself with a large and thick victim jacket and feels sorry for herself. There are clear reasons why political parties do not want to cooperate with you. I don't want to cooperate with you, and I don't want to cooperate with the Left Party either. And there are political reasons why I do not want to cooperate with you. Jimmie Åkesson must actually respect that. I have made clear what the Center Party thinks about the government issue. We will convict Stefan Löfven after the next elections, because in true democratic order we want a round of Presidents to investigate which Prime Minister candidate has the largest government base. I think that's reasonable. I have also said that I am not going to sit in a government that requires the active support of the Swedish Democrats. My third message has been that I want to hold the Alliance together. A new and strong alliance government, which can carry out reforms for more jobs, increased security and a strength in all parts of the country, is the best thing for Sweden. As far as immigration policy is concerned, the Center Party has also been clear. We stand up for regulated immigration. Those who get approval and who stay in this country should have the opportunity to quickly get to the first job and to quickly integrate and get a good reception. Those who are refused should simply leave the country. The second important part is that we should streamline and reduce our costs of receiving refugees in the municipalities. We have a series of proposals in our budget that deal with this particular issue. Another important part is about what separates Jimmie Åkesson and me. There are quite a few things that separate us in refugee policy. But the important part is about the possibility for children to reunite with their mother and father. We are a number of alliance parties which think that the government in that part has gone far too far. It cuts my heart when I see little children in Aleppo who are not allowed to see their mother and father again because there are politicians in this Parliament who have said that they should be separated.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-514	Mr President, I would like to I have full respect that Annie Lööf does not want to cooperate with me. That is not what my question was about either. I can see why you don't want to. I'd rather decide everything for myself. But the problem is, the reality doesn't let me. It's not like that either for Annie Lööf's part. That is what is at the heart of the whole government issue, that is, none of the traditional blocs – not even Annie Lööf's alliance – will get its own majority. How should you behave? That is what we are discussing. Then I find immigration policy interesting because three out of four alliance parties say they want to increase immigration. And Annie Lööf is the one who goes the farthest in this regard. At the same time, however, it is said that one intends to form a government together. It is clear, then, that we must also be able to tell what immigration policy we are receiving. My question is really about what the Center Party is doing now. Why do you say that you should increase immigration when you do not spend money on increased immigration? I find that odd.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-517	Mr President, I would like to I can give a fairly simple answer to that. We use the official forecasts that come from the Migration Agency. These are the forecasts on which we base our budget. What is an important point when we talk about the future of migration policy is that last autumn the four parties of the Alliance and the government, for young people, are the four parties of the Alliance and the government. About a year ago, the only agreement on migration policy reached so far. It is a pretty good basis for future talks within the framework of the Alliance's work. Our election manifesto for the next elections will make clear what is the policy of the Alliance. What is important to me is that we stand up for regulated immigration, that we stand up for the right to seek asylum here and that we stand up for a humane but also responsible migration policy where we do not separate small children from their parents, which I do not think is worthy of a country like Sweden.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-521	Mr President, I would like to When the Green Party entered the government, we inherited a deficit in reducing CO2 emissions in Sweden of 4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent that the previous government had not planned to address with national measures. Since we entered the government and until today we have increased the environmental and climate budget by 73%. One of the most effective and popular measures is climate change. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that climate life will end this emission gap by about a quarter, and we have already done so in half. Climate change has so far opened up opportunities for over 500 climate-smart actions across Sweden, and many are at local level. There are many small businesses outside the big cities that are receiving this support. In fact, I am very surprised that you, Annie Lööf, as the representative and leader of the Center Party – the Green Party in the Alliance – are so convinced to delete this investment in local and national climate action that allows Sweden to turn into a climate-smart welfare country that can show the way for the rest of the world in terms of how we can turn to a fossil-free future. Why don't you want charging poles in Värnamo? Why don't you want biogas plants to be able to be built all over Sweden? Why do you want to stop the Climate Tree, Annie Lööf?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-525	Mr President, I would like to I will take this opportunity to explain to Isabella Lövin what the difference is between the environmental policy of the Green Party and the environmental policy of the Center Party. There is a difference. We do not think that the best environmental policy is the one that spends the most on taxpayers' money. We believe that the best environmental policy is the one that delivers the best results for the environment and climate in practice. The best environmental policy is also the one that succeeds in a green tax shift – which increases the tax on environmentally damaging activities while using this money to lower the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. That is what the Center Party's environmental policy looks like. I'm very proud of the results we got during the Alliance's time in power. Among other things, climate emissions decreased by an average of 5 per cent per year. We lead the league in Europe in terms of renewable energy, and we expanded wind power ten times over – to take just a few examples. I could say a lot more, but the results are important. If you look at the Climate Scene – it's been hot a little bit different over the years – you can see that it's inefficient subsidy programs. We have had those in the past that have been sawed along with the ankles because they have not worked and have led to concrete results. At Isabella Lövin it sounds like you become green only you buy the Green Party policy, with acknowledged failure of subsidy programmes, but it is the results that count. With regard to the charging post in Värnamo, which has been much in the debate, I can guarantee that the municipalities themselves have paid many of these. Some others have received through the money the alliance government invested in charging poles. As I said, the government's budget has been in force for ten months. I am pleased that the government is investing in charging poles; so is the Center Party in its budget. In addition to that, we are removing the harmful solar tax introduced by the Green Party, and we are removing the harmful tax on biofuels introduced by the Green Party. Once again, the Green Party is therefore investing 75 percent of its efforts only after the next elections. It's not credible.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-532	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have increased the budget for agriculture and climate change by 73% even today. Then there are further efforts that will give much greater exchange if we remain after the next elections, and I hope so. I also hope that we can work together on one of the climate and environmental efforts that the Center Party wants to make. If you are to rule with your former comrades in the alliance government, you will find it extremely difficult to get an impact on your climate efforts, Annie Lööf. You want to spend half a billion more on the Green Climate Fund – great, but your alliance comrades the Moderates want to cut back on aid. So I do not think that this initiative will succeed very well. As for how emissions fluctuate in quarterly periods, I don't think you're very honest, Annie Lööf. You point to the first quarter when we had cold and boom, and you compare with other things. It is not scientifically correct to do so. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has pointed to the climate challenge and says that it reduces emissions by a quarter of the emissions gap you left behind.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-535	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Lövin is now standing again and says that it is the one who invests the most SEK in the environmental budget that does the best for the climate. I don't think so. I think it is important to note that it is the results that count. For example, the Center Party was a member of the Alliance Government and initiated the Green Fund globally. We put money in it, along with the other alliance parties. Now the Center Party wants to take another step beyond what the government does. It is also important to note that trains must go on time even now, not just after the next election. That is why the Center Party is putting forward a short-term investment of half a billion more than the government is investing in the next two years. As I said, it is the results and not the tax crowns of the environmental budget that are crucial. It must make a real difference in everyday life. We increase the tax on environmental pollution by 8 billion more than the government, and we spend every one of those dollars on reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Environment, climate, jobs and entrepreneurship go hand in hand for the Center Party. That is the difference between the policy of the Center Party and that of the Green Party.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-538	Mr President, I would like to In Swedish elderly care, it is worked every day, around the clock. You work weekdays and weekends; you work Christmas Eve and Midsummer Eve. It is a women's dominated area where wages are very low, where many people work part-time and there are too many precarious jobs. For example, there are a lot of nurses who are unable to retire because it is such a heavy and demanding job. Low wages also provide low pensions. We know that. That's what it looks like. There are differences in conditions depending on where you work in the care of the elderly. The Association of Local Authorities, which organizes many of those who do this vital work every day, has investigated this. You can see that the differences are increasing. There is also a big difference between those who work for a public employer – which is often not good enough, I will admit – and those who work for a private employer. One of the major differences concerns pay. The average difference in basic salary is as much as $2,500 a month. If you make a lot of money, $2,500 does not matter very much, but if you have a basic salary of $20,700 – which you have with the private employers in the care of the elderly – is $2,500 in an increase in salary. That is what it looks like even though we have done a great deal. We have allocated money to care for the elderly, and we have welfare billions, but that's what it looks like. Where, then, does this $2,500 go? It is the difference that makes you unable to live on your salary and that you receive such a low pension. Yes, that money ends up in the pocket of the private owners of retirement homes. It is the low-paid women who pay the price for your privatisation experiment, Annie Lööf. Do you think it is reasonable to receive $20,700 in basic salary for a full - time job for someone else to profit from one's work?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-543	Mr President, I would like to Because of various personal circumstances, I have spent many Christmas evenings in nursing homes, celebrating with older relatives. The staff make fantastic contributions both on holiday days and on weekdays – not least the nurses. For this reason, the Center Party is also spending more money in its budget on welfare initiatives. Jonas Sjöstedt has beaten his chest and said that he invests 10 welfare billions in the municipalities, but the Center Party adds 12 1⁄2 billion each year. It is in order for municipalities to be able to prioritise welfare as they need. I can also say that Värnamo, an alliance-led municipality, has the best paid nurses in the country according to the reports I have received. It is precisely this that has been targeted. I think that's good. You should bet on this. Then me and Jonas Sjöstedt can stand and beat surveys with different results in each other's head. I have another survey, the Job Health Survey. Based on this, it can be observed that employees in health care companies have higher wages. They are less sick and more comfortable at work. It is the survey of employees that I use, and Jonas Sjöstedt has another one. The most important thing for me is of course to listen to the nurses – to listen to the employees out there. I think a lot of people would like to get their salary up. I believe that we want good working conditions, and I believe that we want to be able to influence our working environment. The best way to do this is to be able to change employers, i.e. have many different workplaces to choose from. If there is only one, public, it will be neither that quality is improved nor that employees are given the opportunity to opt out of bad employers. I therefore stand up for women's right to set up businesses in this area, of course, but also for employees' ability to raise their wages by choosing other employers.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-548	Mr President, I would like to This is the theory – employees have the opportunity to raise their salary. But this is black and white. It has been investigated what their wages actually are, and they earn $2,500 less a month because they will pay someone else's profit from their work. These women have underpaid jobs, and as a penalty for that they receive a pension – it is often basic pension– that makes them not make it in the autumn of their age. It is they who pay the price because you think it is so important that someone, such as venture capital companies, should earn a lot of money from their work. You can't get away with someone paying the price when we're going to have big profits in the public sector, Annie Lööf, and I think it's obvious that you can't answer that either. I've been thinking about the fact that you spend a little more money on welfare than we do. You are the only bourgeois party to do so; some have removed the 10 billion. I think I figured out why you're doing it, Annie Lööf. For if you are to pay the private profits you want so badly, you have to raise more billions in order for it to be as much done in welfare. So there is some sort of logic in it, but there is no better welfare.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-551	Mr President, I would like to The only ones focusing on welfare gains are Jonas Sjöstedt, Stefan Löfven and possibly Isabella Lövin. It is the left side of Swedish politics that is constantly blinded by the issue of profit. You have completely surrendered to the issue of quality. The vast majority of people around the country want good care for the elderly. They want safe care for their elderly, and they want available care when they get sick. They want a well-functioning school and preschool. I am myself listed on a county council s-run care centre, and I am listed on a dental clinic belonging to Folktandsvården. I am because they have good accessibility, but for that matter I have no problem choosing private alternatives. For me it is not about who owns the walls, but the important thing is that it is high quality and that the employees there are satisfied. We politicians must ensure that. I want higher quality standards, and I want to make sure that there is more stringent supervision regardless of the operator. But I want to defend people's right to choose, regardless of cash or contacts. It's a reform of justice.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-554	Mr President, I would like to When I went home after the last party leader debate, in SVT's Agenda last Sunday, I thought of the high tone of Swedish politics. Actually, I think it's pretty loud. I think that many people who sit and listen think about the high tone combined with that it is sometimes difficult to get things done. We have an uncertain and partly unclear situation. Sweden has a minority government with little support in parliament. But one of the few things that have been delivered – one of the things that has meant that reform on reform has been carried out and that life has improved for millions of Swedes – is the budget cooperation between the government and the opposition party that is prepared to cooperate on the economy: the Left Party. Through our budgetary efforts, Sweden has become a little more equal and a little more fair. We have invested in welfare, climate and housing together. This is also evident in the budget that will apply next year. I just had a replica shift with Annie Lööf, and it's interesting to see how popular our left billions to welfare are. They are so popular that the government parties would like to say that the idea actually came from them although it came from us. They are so popular that moderate councillors say that they would rather have them even if the government has turned them down. They are so popular that even Annie Lööf is trying to be part of the bidding for welfare. We know that good welfare is important for Sweden. This money will be useful in school, health care, and care for the elderly. They will make Sweden stick together better. As the Left Party, we have also achieved a number of other reforms. We have made sure that young people and others who do not have a driving licence can get it with CSN loans. This may seem a little odd or strange, but for the unemployed, the driving licence is often the difference between being able to apply for a job and not being able to do so. Having a driving licence means, for example, taking a job at home or commuting to the community next door. It is a practical, concrete policy that allows more people to take the jobs that are actually emerging in Sweden now. Today there is a dilemma: If you don't have a job, you don't get a loan, and then you can't take that driver's license. But let's figure it out. We'll fix it for a lot of people who need it. We are taking concrete measures against tax evasion, which costs tens of billions each year for common welfare. The tax could be a little lower for small businesses and ordinary wage earners if everyone paid the tax as they should – if we helped each other as we should. Very rarely nurses or plumbers get stuck in the Panamanians. It is a completely different part of society that is doing this tax evasion. We are taking action against the craft industry, which is a concrete step towards better conditions on the Swedish labour market and to promote serious, good small businesses. We make dental care cheaper for those who have retired. It is important – with low pensions, it is not obvious today that you can afford to go to the dentist. For us, this points to a dilemma. We recognise that the pension system needs to be redeployed, because so many workers and so many women do not receive pensions that they can live on. But precisely because we think this is what the Left Party must not be involved in negotiating pensions. You only get that if you like today's pension system. Instead, we have had to go other ways, such as making dental care cheaper, reducing the tax on those with the lowest pensions, raising the housing supplement and from the turn of the year removing the fees when going to the doctor. We have done this because we realise that Sweden must become more equal and fairer. It is also a major feminist issue. It is often our grandmother who, after a long career, does not have a pension that can be managed. We have made sure that efforts are made on the working environment. The work environment research that was the world leader and that the bourgeoisie put down and equipped down, we are again starting to invest in, and we are going to have more controls. Many employers handle this well, but too many do not. This shows a pattern. When the government cooperates with the Left Party, we gain a stronger welfare, and we lift up groups that had to stand back during the many bourgeois years. Single parents are suddenly winners of a Swedish state budget. We ensure that those with low pensions have greater financial scope. We are finally getting a move on housing construction, and we are doing a lot of climate action. We're proud of that. It is also a very clear contrast to the right-wing policy that has ruled Sweden for so many years. I sometimes get questions about how we can get so much from the Left Party. I think we have got good things through, but I also think that it is because we want a lot and we have many concrete proposals. But I will not fail to admit that we disagree with this government on important points. We have had serious contradictions in the budgetary negotiations that have taken place. Sweden is characterised by large class divisions. You only have to travel by bus or local traffic through any Swedish city to see it with your own eyes. And the class gaps in Sweden do not narrow enough, despite these efforts. I think that many Swedes do not recognize themselves when the government says that things are going well. If you do not get the pension enough, it is difficult to rejoice at the growth figures. If you can't afford to stay in your current apartment, it's hard to rejoice that there are residential apartments that cost millions of dollars to buy. We need an economy that works for everyone. We need a tax system that holds Sweden together and makes us a more equal country. Then it is not good enough to maintain a fundamentally bourgeois tax system. Then it is not good enough that the flower shop on the corner pays more corporate tax than Volvo does. Then it is not good enough that the same people who have received the large tax cuts – those with really high incomes – can also make the large tax deductions. Then it is not good enough for the sick and the unemployed to pay higher taxes. There is a crucial difference here between us and the government. Here we have not succeeded – at least not yet. We must have an economy that creates equality, a Sweden that works for everyone and an economy that works for everyone. Otherwise it will be difficult to win the next election. We have a lot of work ahead of us. An important part of creating a better Sweden is to create a well-being that you can trust and create safe jobs. We need a clear left-wing policy to do that. It is completely unreasonable that taxi drivers in Sweden work 11 – 13 hours a day and can barely support themselves and their families. It is unreasonable for us to pay tax money for companies that clean up municipal facilities and cheat and exploit staff at really low wages. This is indefensible. It is incomprehensible that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish democrats, defend the crude exploitation and do not think that we should favour the decent companies and the decent conditions for the employees. The same is true of welfare. Sweden is an extreme country. Sweden is the only country in the world where you get to withdraw as much profit as you want from school. It has effects: schools that go bankrupt, lower teacher density and now schools on the stock exchange. What do you think those stock exchange companies will do on the day the stock exchange price folds and profits go down? It will be done like Ericsson. People will be laid off and unprofitable units will be laid off. But schools should not be run as private industries. Schools are for the students, not for the stock speculators. We in the Left Party want to see that welfare. Now we're halfway between the whales. A policy of prosperity to be trusted, for an economy for all can only be pursued together with the Left Party. You cannot carry it out with the bourgeois parties. This is the question of government: what policy do we want to see in Sweden? There we are the guarantor of a fairer and fairer Sweden. We want to see a red-green side with the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, which is clearly larger than the bourgeois. We are prepared to take government responsibility and to continue to govern Sweden by ensuring that we have good state budgets. We do not dream of inviting bourgeois parties into government; we dream of how to ensure that bourgeois parties do not fall into government position! This is an important difference between us and the government.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-582	There's a lot at stake. In 2018, a vote on the bourgeois alliance could be a vote on Jimmie Åkesson. We have received very unclear information, particularly from Christian Democrats and Moderates, about the possibility of making itself directly dependent on the Swedish Democrats. We never will. We do not want a Sweden run by Anna Kinberg Batras pri- Vatizations and class divisions in conjunction with Jimmie Åkesson's racism. This beautiful country is worth a lot better than that.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-584	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a safe country. Security is for everyone, for every neighborhood and every part of the country. As a rural resident, you should not feel that you are robbed twice, once by the criminals and once because society and the police are not enough. Those who live in all of Sweden's suburbs should not wake up to the sound of riots and cars burning and not have to risk standing without help in case of illness or accident when the blue light staff does not arrive due to stones and threats. According to the police, there are 15 particularly vulnerable areas in Sweden. These are areas where the police have difficulties in carrying out their mission and where parallel social structures are emerging. Lövgärdet and Biskopsgården in Gothenburg, Ronna in Södertälje and Norsborg in Botkyrka are some examples. In 10 of these 15 particularly vulnerable areas, the Left Party is in charge. The Left Party is also a support party for the government. We in the Center Party have in our budget movement a targeted focus on these 15 vulnerable areas with crime prevention measures and initiatives for a safer urban environment. We spend another 600 million over the next four years on civil society and next year we spend half a billion more than the government on the police. We do not intend to leave any part of Sweden in uncertainty. I would therefore like to ask Jonas Sjöstedt: what does the Left Party do specifically for these particularly vulnerable areas? What is the Left Party doing to stop the car fires, to take away the power of criminal networks and to increase security? Nevertheless, the Left Party is in the majority of them.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-589	Mr President, I would like to It is true that there are more car fires in areas with really low incomes, with high overcrowding and high unemployment. And there is a class dimension in Swedish politics. People on low incomes are voting more left and people on high incomes are voting more right. This is what Swedish society actually looks like. I think it's incredibly important that politics reacts strongly, and I agree with a lot of what you say, Annie Lööf. That is why we have made a deal with the government about spending more money on the police, for example to get more police officers. But I don't think it's enough just to talk about the number of cops. I believe that we must also have a police officer who works closely with people and has people's trust, who helps to take back their society and who says away and draws boundaries. That is why we have stressed that we want more district policemen, who are present in these areas all the time, which has not always been the case. We think it is reasonable to protect the blue light staff better, and we call for certain laws to be tightened up. But if we are to break the criminal networks, which make life so much worse in many areas, we must go further than talking about the police. We have to have a tax authority that takes the top of these leagues-- if you go around in a Maserati and according to the tax return, 30 000 a year is something that is wrong-- and that has been done in Södertälje, for example. At the same time, efforts have been made to re-cruit the criminal gangs. It is a much more effective and broader way of working, and we must learn from that. Not least, I think we should see that it is not a coincidence that it is where the overcrowding is high, unemployment high and confidence in the future that crime takes a foothold. That's why we have to do more. But you don't care about these suburbs. You didn't build any new homes. You didn't renovate the old worn-out areas, like we want to do. The service was impoverished during your time. I believe that we must see a whole, that we must have both effective police work and a society that provides people with housing, work and confidence in the future, in order to succeed in this. The task is simply harder than you think, Annie Lööf.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-595	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party and Jonas Sjöstedt are happy to talk about insecurity. They have written nice about it in social media and they give formal speeches in Parliament's chambers. But security is not created by fine words but by powerful reforms. It is true, as Jonas Sjöstedt says, that it is not only more police officers and more resources for the police that help. That is why I also mentioned that we are spending 600 million over the next four years on strengthening civil society. We are investing additional money in the prevention of crime in order to ensure a safer urban environment in these areas. It is an important part of strengthening municipalities with particularly vulnerable areas, and the Left Party is in charge of 10 of the 15. We want to ensure that they have a safer urban environment and better prevention. But my point here is that the Left Party is not behind the security efforts of the Center Party. You don't take security seriously. It is too little and too late, and it fails the vulnerable areas. Jonas Sjöstedt says that his party is an opposition party, but it supports the government. How come you are not doing more for civil society and crime prevention?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-599	Mr President, I would like to We bet more than ever on the police, more than you did when you were in the government, Annie Lööf. We also inherited a situation. But I think in a way that discussion is pointless. What matters is what we can do forward. And I think we need more cops, especially more cops who work close to people and have the local trust. But with the difficult and important work of the police, we must look at their working environment. The police are underpaid in Sweden, and this is linked to the fact that we did not make police training a three-year university education. You dragged your feet behind you. I think that we should make a difference now and make sure that we have even better trained police officers who have a better education at the bottom. This will make the profession more attractive, hopefully better pay and more opportunities to develop. You didn't. I hope you will. I also hope that we will agree to do so.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-602	Mr President, I would like to A non-profit organization here in Stockholm that runs an older center has a savings box. Those who can afford it are asked to put in a twenty in payment for today's lunch, but 40 percent of those who pass are allowed to lower their eyes, for they have nothing left to give. We Christian Democrats reduced the tax on pensions in our previous budget option. We are also lowering the tax in this budget. We increase the housing supplement by 500 – 600 SEK per month for those who are the most deprived. We close the tax gap between those who have a job and those who have a pension of up to $15,000. And we double the job tax deduction for those who are 64 years old. In total, we are putting 5.3 billion in the budget for next year to improve the finances of pensioners and the opportunities for older people in the labour market. In your speech, Jonas Sjöstedt, you were pleased that those with low pensions are better off. But we're not happy. The Christian Democrats want to do more. That is why we propose more in our budget. My question to Jonas Sjöstedt, who is part of the government base, is: why do you not give priority to the pensioners who are the most deprived?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-606	Mr President, I would like to There is an expression that says to throw stones in glass houses, and right now it is crashing like around the Christian Democrats here.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-607	Let me just remind you that you created the tax gap. After all, it was you who made sure that pensioners pay more taxes than others. We've begun to remove it. But you introduced it and are responsible for it. Unlike you, we are then excluded from the pension negotiations because we want a new, fairer pension system that does not disadvantage workers and women. You think today's pension system, which creates the tax gap, is good. You're behind it and you've defended it. That's why you're shutting us out who want to change it. I don't think that's gonna hold. Then we have to do something else. What has the Left Party done? We'll lower the tax, and we'll start with those with the lowest pension. We have in this budget increased the allowance for dental care so that more can afford to go to the dentist. We have raised the housing supplement, which is very accurate when you want to raise the economic standard for those with the lowest pension. And from the end of the year we will remove the fees when visiting a health centre or hospital. Everyone should be able to afford to visit health care and everyone should be able to afford to go to the dentist. We are not satisfied with this. We realise that the pension system that you have created, and which you support, will continue to mean that many, especially women with working jobs, will go out with a guarantee pension and still not make it. It is a disgrace to Sweden, and we want to do something about that. A new pension system is needed.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-611	Mr President, I would like to The budget supported by Jonas Sjöstedt's party may touch on the surface a little when it comes to what is harmful to jobs, harmful to work. But basically the Left Party accepts the job tax deductions by supporting the current budget. I have not heard any government proposals to drive back all the thousands of tax cuts that have resulted from the job tax deduction, thanks to the Alliance's policy. We reduced the tax on pensioners under the alliance government, not once, not twice, but five times. We raised the housing allowance on three occasions. And we are already proposing in our budget for next year an additional 5.3 billion in order to strengthen the finances of pensioners. We are not satisfied; more is needed. It is surprising that Jonas Sjöstedt is giving his support to a budget which does so little for the poorest pensioners.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-614	Mr President, I would like to If you had been half as good in government as in opposition, imagine how nicely Sweden's pensioners would have had it! But you weren't. You introduced the tax gulf. Now it is we who have to try to patch and fix so that Sweden's pensioners with a low pension can afford to stay in their apartments and go to the dentist and health care when they need it. Judge the deeds, not just the rhetoric! You didn't get much work done. You are defending a pension system which means that hundreds of thousands of people, especially women, cannot live on their pensions. Instead, those who dreamed of retiring and being able to help their children and grandchildren a little may now ask their children for help. It's unworthy. This is because of the pension system that you are defending and which we want to do again. Don't run away from that responsibility!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-616	Mr President, I would like to We live in a troubled time. We have just gone through the deepest economic crisis in 80 years, and a breakdown in the Middle East is causing both refugee flows and terrorist threats. All in all, this leads to great concern among Western populations, which in turn are exploited by those who want to add to the anxiety and create breeding ground for extremism and populism. We see right-wing populists like Donald Trump, Marine Le Pen, Alternative für Deutschland. Ukip and Brexit were driven by this kind of forces. We also see left-wing populists like Podemos and Syriza in southern Europe, and Tony Blair's Labour party is led by a Communist. The great challenge for the Western world and Europe is, of course, both the economy and the flow of refugees, but also the extremism and populism that are flourishing. Ensuring that this extremism is not allowed to tear our societies apart is the ultimate task. We have to stick together. It is Sweden's recipe for success. The task is to secure the humanist, liberal model of society that has laboriously been built up for generations. Responsibility is needed in both Sweden and Europe in the future. Mr President, I would like to The big challenge here at home in Sweden in the coming years will be integration. There is a great potential in people coming to Sweden, if we take advantage of these opportunities. Excretion and dependency must be replaced by self-sufficiency. People who come to Sweden have their own responsibility to contribute to being integrated. The model of care does not work. At the same time, the state has a responsibility to create the conditions for integration. This is where politics is lacking. The thresholds for entering the labour market are far too high for newcomers, especially for those who do not have education. The Prime Minister sits on the lap of LO and blocks the reforms that are necessary for people to come in and get real jobs. If nothing is done about this, Stefan Löfven, everyone will suffer, not just those who are unemployed. Outsiders are cemented, and the welfare state is dismantled. Misbelief will increase. That's how communities are torn apart, and that can't happen. We Liberals want to see start-up jobs for newcomers with a shorter time with lower entry salary. It is better to have a job even if the salary is slightly lower than to go unemployed and end up in long-term exclusion. Jobs are more than a livelihood. Jobs are also about independence, pride and community in the workplace. Jobs provide the opportunity to go to the bank and become creditworthy for buying and owning a home. There is also value in children seeing their parents support their family by going to work. We must not allow alienation to inherit. The government should rethink, redo and do the right thing. More simple jobs are needed. I thought Stefan Löfven was on a good thought for a short while when he commissioned Mikael Damberg to arrange more simple jobs. Then the government was clearly barked by LO and slowed down again. But this is the way we have to go. Mr President, I would like to Integration is not just about jobs. It is also about values. Sweden faces a huge challenge in terms of equality between women and men. We have fought for a hundred years for more equality in our country. Almost a hundred years ago, decisions were taken on the right to vote for women. Then, for generations, steps have been taken to increase gender equality. But suddenly there are islands in Sweden where gender equality is rejected for a number of generations. I was in Hedemora the other week with a young woman, Walaa. She is also a member of the Liberals. She was beaten by religious moral policemen in Hedemora because she did not dress the way they expected. Now, Walaa has to hide. It's a big failure for society that it's Walaa who has to hide. It is Walaa who should be able to move freely in Hedemora. They're the ones who beat her. They're the ones who're going to lock her up.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-630	We cannot compromise on this point. Gender equality should cover everyone. It shall cover all women and men regardless of whether they were born in Sweden or elsewhere.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-631	Mr President, I would like to If the school succeeds, Sweden will succeed. But if the school fails, Sweden will fail. That's why the school is so central in the coming years. In our draft budget we liberals spend more than SEK 40 billion more on school for a number of years to come than is being done today. Knowledge is the focus. The comprehensive school needs to be extended. The school obligation needs to be extended further for those who come to Sweden in their teens. For them, we need to shorten summer holidays. The professional status and authority of teachers shall continue to be restored. They're being retrained. There must be more career services and opportunities. Above all, there must be study discipline and peace of mind in our classrooms. The messiest cannot be allowed to set the standard in the classroom. That's how we create more life chances for more children and young people. Sweden has fallen for decades in the so-called PISA measurements. The Alliance made very extensive reforms in the field of education – so much so that most complained that the pace of reform was too high. But the truth is that more will have to be done. I am concerned about the government's powerless education policy. Almost nothing's happening. Minister Fridolin talks about abolishing national tests. He calls them bureaucracy. He is also committed to re-establishing school boards for local schools, with student majority. Students should be able to vote down their teachers. What is the picture of the school's problems if you think that the solution is for students to decide more about teachers? We look around the world at which countries succeed in school and are high in PISA, it is Finland and countries in Asia. There you put knowledge and the teaching profession in the high seat. It is not the idea to abolish grades and tests in these schools, and it is not the idea that students should be in charge of their teachers. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we should feel safe. That means you can trust the police to come when the accident is over. That is not the case today. We need to increase legal security, more police officers are needed, and Parliament needs to pay more attention to legal issues. External security, protection against external threats, is also needed. The Russian aggression is worrying. The reconstruction continues, and the Russians are now placing a new generation of nuclear weapons on the shores of the Baltic Sea. The defence agreement concluded between the government and the other alliance parties seems increasingly inadequate. Most remarkable is that this autumn Sweden is beginning the destruction of 100 modern fighter planes. The 100 JAS aircraft that were purchased last and delivered from the factory a year and a half ago will already start to be scrapped because the government and the other alliance parties do not want to allocate funds to have pilots, runways and other things for them. It is a massive disarmament of the Swedish air defence which is now decided and which will begin shortly. Then you buy new airplanes. That's good – we're for it. If you buy new ones and keep the old ones, there will be a massive strengthening of air defence instead of the massive weakening that is now under way. Madam President, I would like The challenges facing Sweden are wide-ranging and will require action to shape a long-term migration policy that combines both humanism and realism, a powerful integration policy that breaks down thresholds, comprehensive measures to strengthen our own security in an troubled Baltic Sea region, a continued knowledge-oriented education policy to lift Sweden for the future and an economic policy that promotes work and entrepreneurship and thereby secures resources for the welfare of the future. Liberal values are now under threat in the Western world and in Sweden. Extremism celebrates success, but what Europe needs is more liberalism, not more extremism.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-646	Madam President, I would like In this change of line, too, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the clarity of not wanting in any way to become dependent on the Swedish Democrats. Jan Björklund stands up for that. I also thank you for a pragmatic reflection on how to deal with a difficult parliamentary situation in Sweden. I'm sure we'll have to do that in a few years. I thank you for that. Then we will continue to discuss substantive issues, so also this time. The Swedish model has built our country extremely strong. This means that we should have small gaps, wages that can be lived on and a strong general welfare. Unfortunately, the Liberals continue their march with tax cuts. None of the problems that Jan Björklund addressed in his speech, whether it be police, schools or anything else, are solved with reduced taxes. Yet Jan Björklund, together with the other three parties in the bourgeoisie, wants to reduce taxes by SEK 80 billion. I am concerned about the Swedish school and have been so for a number of years because we see dramatically falling school results, not least when we look at OECD comparisons. Our government is now making a historic effort to raise knowledge and quality: we are raising teacher salaries, we have 13 000 more employees in school, we are investing in smaller classes – especially in the lower ages to get more education – and we are investing in the status of teachers and an equal school. These resources are needed at school. Liberals want to reduce school spending and also allow some of the welfare money to go to private profits. We need more resources for the school. My question is: why is it so important for the Liberals that part of the taxpayers' money should go to profit withdrawals, sometimes to the Cayman Islands?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-650	Madam President, I would like There were quite a few factual errors in Stefan Lövven's claims. To begin with, the teacher density in Swedish schools is now decreasing. It has been doing so for a couple of years. Stefan Löfven shakes his head, but it's the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics: The teacher density is decreasing. Stefan Löfven is shaking his head again, but we can look afterwards at what the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics say. I say this one more time: Right now the teacher density in Swedish primary school is decreasing. The size of the year-olds of students varies. Some years it is smaller hills, and then the municipalities pull down something and spend the money to preschool. Other years it's the other way around. The teacher density is currently decreasing with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. I do not want to say that it could have increased with us in government, because there have been many more students. But don't say that teacher density is increasing, Stefan Löfven, because it's falling right now. As far as the increase of 13 000 was concerned, more than half of my time as Minister of Education was before the turn of the government. I do not want to say that it was my responsibility, because it was the municipalities that invested. But it was alliance-led municipalities that did it because there were more students. Don't mess with the statistics, Stefan Löfven! We propose a reduction in marginal taxes, and that always attacks Stefan Löfven. But that's what Ingvar Carlsson, Bengt Westerberg and Anne Wibble once agreed on – to allow marginal taxes to be maximum 50 percent. Please tell me why Ingvar Carlsson was wrong, Stefan Löfven!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-655	Madam President, I would like We are increasing the number of employees in school, and that is important. We have more adults in school now, and that's good. The total tax revenue would be reduced by SEK 80 billion by the four bourgeois parties. I do not believe that the school's problems will be solved by SEK 80 billion in tax cuts. Jan Björklund did not answer the most important question: Why is it important to first reduce the funding for the school and then let some of the money go to profits that are not used? We need more resources for school, more for teachers and more for children, libraries, student health and everything we need to invest in at school. You think it's a good idea for some people to go for profits. There is no other country that has such a market-liberal school system as Sweden – we are the only one in the world. The question is: are we the country in the world that has the best school results? No, we have the most dramatically falling school results in the OECD. This is part of the explanation. Why do the Liberals think it is important that taxpayers' money goes to profits?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-659	Madam President, I would like Liberals spend SEK 43 billion on school in the draft budget for four years. We spend more on school than the government does. You put more on AMS investments and call it education, but that's another thing, Stefan Löfven. I think it is important that there is freedom of choice. Free school reform and freedom of choice reform are an important part of the major freedom reforms that have taken place in Sweden in modern times. Parents can choose which schools their children should attend. English The school is Sweden's most popular school – much more popular than Stefan Lövven's all municipal schools together. It's got 130,000 students in line. It's the one that has to close again if the Reepalu investigation's proposal wins. It has a high level of knowledge and is not part of the outcome case. It is the municipal school system that is part of the result case, Stefan Löfven. You and I shook hands in your study once when I was Minister of Education, about the Friskole Committee proposal. I stand for that handshake-- it should be done.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-663	Madam President, I would like Jan Björklund pointed out in his speech that extremism is on the move. There are clearly such examples. Greece is one – there the situation has been extreme. He also mentioned some others, such as Ukip in the UK, the Brexit vote and so on. I wonder who really decides what is extremism and what is extreme. When it comes to, for example, the view of the EU and European cooperation in the British context, it is actually Jan Björklund who is the extremist. There it is Jan Björklund who stands for a different view from that of the vast majority. Jan Björklund even still wants Sweden to join EMU. I regard this as an extreme view in a modern context. Jan Björklund wants Sweden to abandon the freedom of alliance. In fact, it is also a rather extreme view in a Swedish context. Jan Björklund's former EU Minister has talked about abolishing Sweden. That is a very extreme view. The detail that I think Jan Björklund forgets in his reasoning is that the parties that are on the move and which he mentioned have the support of the people. It is people – voters – who vote for those parties. Then I think it will be a bit egocentric or self-satisfied to stand and say: My politics is amazingly much better than those parties – it's just that people don't understand it. The voters are simply not smart enough, so that they vote for parties similar to Jan Björklund. In fact, I think it is a bit presumptuous to express oneself in that way.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-668	Madam President, I would like I attacked extremism in Sweden, and Jimmie Åkesson apparently felt apostrophated without mentioning him. True, what is extreme can vary from time to time. We do not have to fight over the meaning of words, but I am concerned about the huge polarisation that is taking place. It's tearing Europe apart, and you're part of the polarization, Jimmie Åkesson. Of course you have voter support, but I just want to say that I'm worried about that. I do not think that everyone who votes for a particular party necessarily agrees with just everything. The fact that the voter results of the type of party that Jimmie Åkesson represents and also for left-wing populist parties have increased significantly throughout the Western world in the last few years is not, I would say, because people have generally become racists or extreme communists or anything else, but it is a concern about a wide range of phenomena that are the cause. I'm very self-critical, I'll tell you. I think that – and by we mean a broad palette of parties in the middle political field – we have not been able to address these challenges in a way that has given rise to sufficient confidence. It is not an attack on Jimmie Åkesson, but I can congratulate you on the electoral successes you have had, but it is clear that the rest of us need to think about and set an agenda for this. I will devote my political commitment over the coming years to trying to solve the problems that make people so worried that they are going to extremist parties. If Jimmie Åkesson is an extremist or not, we may well have different opinions about, but that is not the central point. The central point is that our societies are being torn apart, and I am very concerned about that.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-673	Madam President, I would like I didn't feel very hit. I noted that Jan Björklund did not mention me in this context. That is not why I chose to bring this up either, but because you specifically mentioned Britain as an example where extremism is on the move and where extremism is a majority of voters who have voted in a certain way. That's what Jan Björklund means is extremism. I find that a little strange. The problem is this self-righteousness and the total lack of understanding of what is happening in society today, not only in Sweden but throughout Europe. We hear it again when Jan Björklund says: I think you do not necessarily know what the party you vote for thinks, but it is about a number of phenomena. It is not phenomena or problems that have arisen out of thin air, but it is because in the old parties you have created problems that the voters abandon you and vote for new parties that have answers to the modern problems and challenges that we face today. You're guilty of the problem. That's why they choose not to vote for you, Jan Björklund, but for me instead.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-676	Madam President, I would like It is possible that Jimmie Åkesson can say that I am responsible for the deep recession in the world and that I am responsible for the breakdown in the Middle East, but perhaps that is to give me something too important, after all. I admit that we have not dealt with many of the challenges that the West has faced in a sufficiently skilful way. It is about liberals, it is about social democrats and it is about the state-supporting conservative Christian Democratic parties in Europe. Therefore, many people are concerned and go to parties like Jimmie Åkesson's party firmly across Europe. I do not rule out that it is about the same phenomenon that is currently driving Donald Trump in the United States. I am, of course, critical of your solutions, but you and you are pointing out some problems that exist with integration and so on and that we should have addressed earlier. There I am very self-critical. But you're wrong in your solutions. The debate must now be about how to solve these problems. I do not believe in closing Sweden. I do not believe in Europe breaking up again. I don't believe that we shouldn't cooperate with each other. The solution to this lies in more cooperation in Europe, not less.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-680	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you, Jan Björklund, for the message you recently gave that we should be more transparent in working across block borders to take responsibility for Sweden in a parliamentary situation where the Green Party, like the Liberals, is prepared to be constructive. An issue in which we have reached broad agreement here in Parliament together with the Centre Party, the KD and the Moderates, but unfortunately not with the Liberals, is that of energy policy. There we have an agreement that we will work towards a 100% renewable electricity system with long-term rules for the energy sector. Unfortunately, the Liberals and Jan Björklund decided to drop it because for some inscrutable reason they would rather continue to invest in old-fashioned nuclear power. Our neighbour Finland did exactly what Jan Björklund wants to do. It was decided in 2002 to build a new reactor in Olkiluoto, which was due to be operational in 2009. It would have cost about $30 billion. It's still not finished. It is expected to be completed in 2018 at the earliest, and the cost is estimated to be up to EUR 11 billion, i.e. around SEK 100 billion or a little less. So far this has not produced a single kilowatt-hour of electricity. While solar electricity, renewable electricity, transmission, storage and energy efficiency are becoming cheaper and cheaper – do you think, Jan Björklund, that Sweden should do as Finland and invest 100 billion in building new reactors when we need to invest in a transition to renewable energy now?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-684	Madam President, I would like There were some pieces of the puzzle missing in Isabella Lövin's account. It is true that the new Finnish reactor has both become more expensive and delayed, but the Finns have nevertheless decided to build another reactor. Thus, even though it becomes both more expensive and late, it is concluded that this is a technology that we want to invest in for the future. Then Isabella Lövin points out that the reactor has not yet produced any kilowatts. Of course it hasn't, because it's not finished yet. However, once completed, it will account for a significant part of Finland's electricity supply for generations to come. We can compare with some countries, because it is not only Finland that is investing in nuclear energy. The UK decided the other week to build two new reactors. France and the United States are on their way. It is Germany that departs. Let us look at Germany: Why was there such a life about the coal mines recently? Well, it was because Germany needs its coal because they have decided to shut down nuclear power. So you have to understand the alternatives. Then Isabella Lövin says: That's not an option. No, it is not for Sweden, and I agree with that. For many countries in Europe, however, it is now a question of whether to shut down coal or nuclear power. You could say, we're against everything. But that's not how it works, because at the same time we need electricity in our societies. What Isabella Lövin has decided instead, with this deal, is that Swedish nuclear power will be closed by 2040– I am surprised that some of my bourgeois brothers and sisters have agreed to it – and also that offshore wind power will be an important part of the compensation. However, if you will excuse me, as we are talking about expensive nuclear power stations: there is certainly no more expensive way of producing electricity than by offshore wind power. To expand as much offshore wind energy as you imagine will make the Nuon deal look like a lottery win.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-690	Madam President, I would like I note that Jan Björklund does not answer the question. Does Jan Björklund think that we should build new reactors in Sweden with the costs that we see now? By the way, the Finns have shrunk the plans for a fourth reactor, given that the third one could not be put into service. As far as the British are concerned, they intend to build nuclear power stations, but there taxpayers have had to go in and subsidise a fixed price of electricity of over SEK 1 000 per megawatt hour for 35 years. Today, the market price is SEK 434. Should we subsidise nuclear power for generations forward when we can instead make investments in renewable energy? If we do that later, we can produce energy free of charge for future generations instead of storing nuclear fuel for a hundred thousand years.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-693	Madam President, I would like Free energy I would be for if there was one. If offshore wind is to be expanded into the volumes that you are thinking of for our energy balance to go together, we must spend between 50 and 100 billion in subsidies on this for a long time, both in investment subsidies and in operating aid. It is true that when you are about to count on what is profitable right now, nothing is profitable because electricity prices are so incredibly low. Nothing is profitable to build right now when it comes to energy. That's the way it is. Sweden does not need to build new nuclear power right now, but this is about a few decades ahead. Then I think it is unfortunate now to rule out that possibility. The big heavy countries of the West, with the exception of Germany, have decided to build a new generation of nuclear power. I do not think we should rule out that possibility for the future. Just today it is not necessary, because right now we have enough electricity. But in the situation where the current six major reactors are beginning to be phased out according to the time axis that you say should apply, we need new electricity.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-696	Madam President, I would like You mentioned gender equality in your speech, Jan Björklund. I was happy about that. You rarely do that, especially given that you pretend to be a party that stands for equality between men and women. I believe that if your draft budget were to be implemented, the gap in income between men and women in Sweden would increase significantly. It is an income gap that is already millions of dollars over a lifetime — an injustice between men and women. Your draft budget is about reducing the tax on those who earn the most. The majority of the people who do that are men. At the same time, you say no to spending SEK 10 billion on welfare. There, many women work who really deserve a raise. And when welfare does not work, it is often women who have to make that work unpaid. You say no to suggestions that make life easier for single parents. Most single parents in Sweden are women, not all but most. You say no to increasing maintenance support and to free glasses for children. You also say no to free outpatient care for those who have turned 85. It is often women with very low pensions who would benefit from this reform. Of course, you also say no to things like making dental care cheaper for young people or building more homes in Sweden. There's a clear pattern here. It is that you benefit from low-income people and women, from low-retirement women and single parents to those men in Sweden who have the highest incomes. The hand to the heart, Jan Björklund – is it not that if you implement your budget increases the income gap between men and women in Sweden?
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-703	Madam President, I would like When the tax reform was implemented a number of years ago, it was said that about 10 – 15 percent of the Swedish people would pay government income tax, i.e. those who count as high-income recipients. Then it has come to shift so that an increasing proportion pays. Now that proportion is increasing even more. In the budget you are presenting, Jonas Sjös tedt, it is so senseless that 40 per cent of Sweden's nurses are counted as high income recipients. And more than 30 per cent of Sweden's upper secondary school teachers count as high-income students. It is clear that you can have any effect if you count on the income that you are in favour of. I think that very few nurses in Sweden experience themselves as high income earners. But we shall of course inform them that the red-greens consider them to be. And they should be heavily taxed because they are high-income earners. This is important because marginal tax strikes hard when you get over a certain income limit. Now it happens to be the case that there will be enormous effects on that group if you lock, or even lower, the income limit for too long. In addition, pay is always raised by a few percent each year, and those who work in health care have overtime benefits and all that is. I can't believe it happens to be the female-dominated academic professions you're hitting! That's where you strike. And you're totally insensitive to it. I promise if it had hit the male LO professions, you'd be really upset. But now it's women-dominated academic professions. Then it means nothing to you, Jonas Sjöstedt. They're being taxed!
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-708	Madam President, I would like I asked you how your budget affects men and women, Jan Björklund. You don't even seem to have thought about the question. You definitely don't give an answer to it. You choose to answer something completely different instead. Your budget benefits rich men, at the expense of women who have low pensions or are single parents, for example. It's remarkable that you haven't even thought about how your budget beats. Instead, you stand here excite yourself that the one who earns 50 000 kroner a month will pay 70 kroner more in taxes. Then it is Armageddon, the end of the world and Gud knows what has befallen us all. I think many people would be happy to pay 70 SEK more in tax if you get a welfare that works better. What if you had been half as upset about all pensioners who are wondering if they can afford to go to the dentist or whose pensions are not enough until the end of the month? Then there would have been something about your feminism, Jan Björklund.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-712	Madam President, I would like There's something strange about this. If a man goes five years at the university to study as an engineer or economist, a typical male-dominated academic education, wages in Sweden are considered high. There are bonuses and certain conditions that apply. But if a woman goes five years at the university and becomes a high school teacher and serves mediocre, as I think – the teacher's wages should be higher – she is regarded as a high-income person. The limit does not go at 50 000, but at 36 000, Jonas Sjöstedt. A lot of high school teachers come up with it. Soon nearly half of the nurses will. And as you freeze the border, the majority of nurses will do so within a few years. And that's when you hit it. There is a huge difference between working conditions for women with a long education and men with a long education in the Swedish labour market. As long as I am politically active, I will push that it will pay to educate myself in Sweden, even to professions where women dominate.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-715	Madam President, I would like The party leader debate has been going on in this House for some time now. The distinction in Swedish politics is once again evident. It runs between the parties of the Alliance and a tired and satisfied government. If Sweden is to stand strong, reforms are needed that strengthen individuals and families and increase our common security, from elderly care to the police. For the Christian Democrats, the road to a society more characterised by trust and security is through an alliance government that occupies Rosenbad no later than after the 2018 election. Madam President, I would like In my speech, I will focus on the priorities that Christian Democrats make in our budgetary option. It's about more jobs. It is about strengthening the finances of pensioners. It is about investments in health care and care. It is also about increased freedom of choice and improved economy for Sweden's families with children. And it's about a crisis package for Swedish police. Having a job to go to is about a lot more than getting more money in your wallet. It's about becoming part of a context, getting workmates, sitting on coffee breaks and talking about what you have done or should do this weekend. It's about routines. But it's also about being able to realize your dreams. For our common good, it means more well-being. The basis of our welfare is that people have a job to go to. Unlike the government, Christian Democrats have a battery of effective measures in the field of jobs. Our major job reform, introductions, enables more people to get a first job and to learn the job at work. We are reducing taxes for young people under 25, for the long-term unemployed, for long-term sick people and for new arrivals who get jobs. We are simplifying labour market policy by closing down inefficient labour market training. We improve matching by investing heavily in vocational adult and university of applied sciences. We want to develop the RUT deduction. And we stimulate to get more and new jobs in health care. These are proposals that contrast with the failure of the Promise Government's job reforms. Madam President, I would like After a long working life, it will eventually be time to enter a new stage in life, to retire. The conditions for changing to a life of retirement change. The group of pensioners is far from a homogeneous group. We Christian Democrats have several different proposals for the Group. For people over 64, we double the job tax deduction if they choose to continue working and contribute their skills and experience to the labour market for another year or two. For the Christian Democrats, it has always been important to strengthen the finances of pensioners. The Alliance government reduced the tax on pensioners on no less than five occasions. We also raised the housing supplement on three occasions. In summary, this gave a guarantee pensioner a total of an additional monthly payment per year. But we're not happy. We propose further strong tax reductions for pensioners in our budget option, which is on the table of Parliament. We want to close the gap between pensioners and working people. And we take a big and powerful step in that direction when we reduce the tax on income up to $15,000 a month. But our goal is to stop the gap completely. We want to continue to bet on those who are the most deprived. Therefore, we increase the housing supplement by 500-600 SEK per month for those with the lowest pension.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-724	Madam President, I would like Without warning, something can happen in life that makes us totally or partly dependent on care. Then we need health professionals who can focus on their duties, on being a doctor, a nurse and a nurse. But today they can't do it. Too much of the working time is spent on peripheral tasks. It is usually said that more hands are needed in healthcare. That could be quite right. But the important thing is that the right hands do the right things. That is why we propose the introduction of health care teams. They should be able to handle ancillary tasks so that we can free up more time for care in the care. Madam President, I would like During this party leader debate, I have noted how few times the word family has occurred. It has been mentioned a few times, and then in the shift of lines, when as a Christian Democrat I have recognised the family as the most important unit of society and the most important building block of society. We Christian Democrats tend to highlight the family and its importance. We do this because we see the family as the most important component of society. We also allow it to influence our policy. We put the family first in our budget option. It's in the family that it starts. This is where we learn to train our abilities and qualities. We Christian Democrats want to introduce a job tax deduction for parents with SEK 500 per month per parent. This increases flexibility in parental insurance. We also want to introduce childcare allowances for our own children. We want to increase the housing allowance for the most deprived, and we strengthen the pension rights for children's years.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-728	We simply make it easier to get together and combine family life and working life. We enable more time together in the family for more people. Many parents I meet testify to how difficult it is to make the everyday puzzle go together. We see this as Christian Democrats, and we put forward proposals to facilitate this. When we see the challenges facing our society, family policy is not a detail alongside or on top of the cake. Family policy is central to meeting the challenges we see. It is by strengthening the family that we increase long-term security and trust in our fellow humans. Madam President, I would like The crisis in the police has now gone so far that crimes such as bicycle theft have not only been forced to be prioritised, but are forced to give priority to serious assaults and robberies. This is very remarkable because these are serious crimes. We Christian Democrats are proposing 2 600 new police workers. We want to see wage increases and an improved working environment so that fewer people end up as police officers. We'd like to re-introduce the P.P.D. and double the task force. The government's investment in the police is well in advance, until after the next elections. Next year, the government will allocate SEK 100 million to the police. It is not good enough when the situation for Swedish police is so serious. I would like to compare the government's efforts on the police to a small patch on a large wound. That's not good enough. People's sense of insecurity and vulnerability must be taken seriously. If that feeling grows, there is a great risk that there will be more so-called vigilantes taking matters into their own hands, and that is not a development that we want. The order must be maintained and legal certainty guaranteed. The police should be there for us in situations where we or our environment are exposed to crime. We must be able to trust that. Madam President, I would like This debate has shown that the government does not meet the challenges facing Sweden. The ambition of social democracy with power is precisely the power itself. The parties of the Alliance have ambitions for change and a wide range of political proposals that we have heard in the debate here today – this to meet the problems and challenges facing people. We Christian Democrats recently presented our budget option with a clear focus on better conditions for more jobs, on strengthening the pensioner's economy, on spending on healthcare and care, on an offensive policy that supports Sweden's families and on spending on the police. We propose this in order to increase trust between people and to strengthen security. Madam President, I would like The man in Vimmerby who lost her job six years ago and hasn't had a job since then, the young woman in Akalla who came here from Syria with a dream and ambition to become an architect and the older woman in Malmö who doesn't get her finances together even though she has taken care of her home and her family and worked part-time ever since her teenage years is with her personalities, experiences and dreams just like all of us unique. We need to do more to keep no one held back and no one left behind.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-745	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Paris climate agreement, and I would like to start by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report. I do so not because of what is in the bill, but because of what is not attached to the bill, because the annex that really matters does not yet exist. The Paris Climate Agreement is described by the government as a legally binding climate agreement. However, there are several problems with the agreement and with the government's line. First of all, let us point out that the agreement is based on voluntary commitments which, for many countries, involve significant increases in emissions. China, for example, has decided to build an average of one to two new coal power plants per week. Another major emitter is India. D Although the voluntary commitments made by India have been hailed in the international media, if you look at what is really going on, India has linked its commitments to its gross domestic product, which is growing very strongly. This means that even there, emissions are likely to increase significantly in the future. We can continue with Russia and other major emitters there, we see a similar pattern. It is often a case of the base year being set at a boom a while ago when emissions were abnormally high, which makes it much easier to set a high percentage. Furthermore, the agreement is quite clear with regard to developing countries. They make very few demands, and it is stated that these countries do not need to reduce their emissions at all. What the agreement, on the other hand, contains is a – oddly enough, actually two – temperature target, but since no one knows with certainty how the temperature varies with increased amounts of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, such a goal is rather problematic. It is impossible to establish any amount of greenhouse gases, and it is clear that it only has symbolic significance in order to be able to say something concrete to ordinary people who wonder what the hell this agreement is really about. Then there is the question of whether or not the agreement is binding. If a contract is to be binding, it is normal for there to be sanctions in the event of a breach of the contract. It is totally lacking today why I find it problematic to talk about a binding agreement. For the United States, it was very important in the climate negotiations that a binding climate agreement should not be reached, and it seems to us that it has been successful in doing so. It is in this way that the White House administration has declared to senate and congress that they do not have to worry about this agreement at all. That signature puts the President himself, because the agreement does not imply any new obligations at all, but is just a renewal of the old agreements that the United States has already ratified. That is why the sub- and super-houses in the United States do not have to ratify the agreement, but it was enough with a simple signature of the President. That is precisely the point: there is nothing in this agreement that says how to reduce emissions – neither how much countries should reduce emissions nor how they should do so. On the other hand, it is an agreement – it should be recognised – that contains a great deal of positive and that will be able to lead to improvements in cooperation at global level to manage climate policy. That, of course, is good. Madam President, I would like When the Minister for Climate Change visited the Environment and Agriculture Committee last spring, the Government made it clear that a Swedish ratification of the agreement would be preceded by a decision at EU level on the agreement and on burden sharing. Now the former has been stressed out, but we still lack burden sharing. This is not a side matter, but it is precisely the burden-sharing that shows the consequences for Sweden of the agreement. When we hear in the political debate about why we should build very expensive high-speed trains or continue to raise petrol taxes until we have the highest fuel tax in the world, reference will be made to this agreement. But in the agreement there are no such obligations for Sweden. That is why the burden-sharing at European level should be completed when we are ratifying the agreement. It is burden-sharing that then leads to consequences. It is this that we can count costs and that makes us know what measures we have to take and what socio-economic costs we get. Since the distribution of burden has not yet been decided, we believe – just as a united committee previously thought – that it is reasonable to wait and that the Parliament will only decide on the Paris climate agreement when it is completed. That is why we Swedish democrats are calling for the bill to be rejected today. However, there is a proposal for burden-sharing today. According to the European Commission's proposal for burden sharing, Sweden is the country that will reduce its emissions most. This is odd in view of the fact that Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions per capita are already well below the average of the industrialised countries. At the same time, the proposal by the European Commission, which has not yet been decided, means that some countries will be able to increase their emissions. It can be noted that by voluntarily taking on the most costly and ambitious emission reductions, the government now contributes to the fact that other countries do not need to reduce their emissions at all or that they can reduce them significantly less. This has been achieved by our government – or will probably succeed. We still don't know what the outcome is. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats stand up for an effective climate policy that is based on a cost-effective way to work globally to enable emission reductions. Sweden has already taken a major responsibility in this area and today accounts for about 1 1⁄2 per mil of the world's total emissions. It stands in parity with our share of the world's population. If we take into account the amount of carbon dioxide that our forest is concerned with, perhaps, our contribution is about half a per mille. While other countries are guarding their national interests, Swedish climate policy today seems to be about taking on the largest possible reductions in emissions, which will mean that our industry is losing competitiveness. This agreement and the decision today will not change this. This will continue to be the case. We will continue to see how Sweden is deindustrialised and jobs are moving to China, partly because of an inefficient climate policy. Madam President, I would like It is also problematic that decisions at EU level will be annexed afterwards to this agreement. These are decisions taken in closed rooms at EU level in the European Council and without debate in the Swedish Parliament. The Swedish Democrats think it is reasonable that the national emission reduction targets at EU level are decided before Sweden takes a decision on the climate agreement. For this reason, we in the Swedish Democrats want the bill for the adoption of the Paris climate agreement to be rejected and the government to return to Parliament after decisions on burden-sharing have been taken at EU level and when we know the full consequences.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-765	Madam President, I would like It may be appropriate to provide information to those who listen to the debate in this House about the structure of the debate today. We are debating the Paris climate agreement because the Swedish Democrats have tabled a reservation in which they want a decision other than the majority of committees one, which supports the proposal put forward by the government. Together with Kristina Yngwe, I will say a few words about the Paris Agreement as we both represent the seven parties in the Swedish Parliament and in the committee who, together with the government, are in favour of the approval of the Paris Agreement by Parliament today. Since we are also very keen to be able to take decisions at the vote at four o'clock this afternoon so that the Swedish Government can actually ratify the Paris Agreement, we also agree for time that not all party representatives take part in the debate to prefer the line of approving the Paris Agreement but only a few of us. We think it is important that we get an approval on the ground so that the government can ratify the agreement and Sweden can be a party at the climate summit in Marrakech later this autumn. I would like to ask for the approval of the proposal by the government and the committee to approve the Paris Agreement and the rejection of the reservation by the very conservative Swedish democrats, who are today calling for the approval of the Paris Agreement to be rejected. Madam President, I would like The decision to be taken by Parliament today is historic. It is a historic decision on a historic agreement. At such moments one may need to reflect on what has led to this. I am thinking of some Swedes who have played a major role in the process that we are deciding on here today. I am thinking of Sverker Åström, Social Democratic Cabinet Secretary at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and Inga Thorsson, who already in 1968 initiated and drafted the first UN resolution that proposed that the United Nations start working on solving one of our major challenges, the environmental challenge. The resolution was adopted and has now borne fruit in the form of, among other things, the Paris Agreement. As a consequence, Sweden arranged the first UN environmental conference in Stockholm in 1972. The conference launched a long process, which is not yet over. The Paris Agreement is a milestone on the road, but the climate threat remains. However, awareness is growing. The promises made by the countries of the world in the Paris Agreement on emissions reductions are still not enough, but they are more than we have ever had. So the Paris Agreement is not an end point; it is a new milestone at which all the countries of the world are involved and are now gathering strength for the next few miles. I am also thinking of Bert Bolin, who at Stockholm University began researching the carbon cycle. Together with hundreds of other scientists, he has given us politicians the scientific basis that we need for the decisions we have to make. Bert Bolin eventually founded the IPCC, the UN climate panel of scientists. Over the years, he and his researchers gathered together the largest research base we have ever seen on a single issue to clarify what we are risking and why the temperature is rising so sharply on our planet. Just a few weeks before Bert Bolin's death in December 2007, the IPCC received the Nobel Peace Prize. Today, all scientists with scientifically published findings agree on the effects and causes of climate change. The research is unified and stable, but unfortunately there are still conservative backward. In fact, it can become president of one of the world's largest countries and also one of the world's largest greenhouse gas emitters. Republican Donald Trump has clearly made it clear that he does not believe in research and does not see the climate threat as serious and that if he wins the election he will tear up the Paris Agreement. It would be very unfortunate if history were to repeat itself. We all remember how much of the joy of the Kyoto Protocol signed in Kyoto in 1997 disappeared when the Republican President Bush stopped the American ratification of the agreement. The Paris Agreement enters into force 13 days after it has been ratified by at least 55 Parties to the UNFCCC, provided that they represent 55% of emissions. Then it is legally binding on the parties. In order for it to become binding, it is therefore urgent to ratify the Paris Agreement. It will then also be binding on the United States on the date on which a new President takes office. If Donald Trump were to win this election, it would take him at least four years before he can crawl out of this deal. Hopefully, in four years, Donald Trump has also been able to convince that it is a really bad idea that the United States should not stand by the Paris Agreement. Madam President, I would like Climate is one of the government's top priorities. The government has therefore chosen to take strong action to support the Paris Agreement, to press those politicians who are moving in the wrong direction and to get states that have not yet made sufficient emission reduction commitments to do more. Therefore, in this Parliament, we will say yes to the agreement today and provide the conditions for the government to ratify it. It is important that this decision comes now, because it means that Sweden will become a party to the agreement and can participate in the climate summit that is planned to be held in Marrakech in November. Sweden will continue to show leadership and support in the international climate work. The EU needs Sweden's leadership, and Sweden needs the EU, because now the tough work is starting to make a workshop out of the agreement. Further decisions need to be made. All countries and also the EU must consider how to strengthen climate action. The ambitions need to be increased if the objective of the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement is to ensure that the increase in temperature is maintained well below two degrees, preferably down to one and a half degrees. Here is the five-year cycle and the global review, for which Sweden and the EU fought in the negotiations on the Paris Agreement, very important and central. Once the government has ratified the agreement, Sweden will become a party to the Paris Agreement. Then we can keep pushing. National measures need to be tightened up. But many details remain. Some of them will be discussed in Marrakech, where I myself will participate as one of Parliament's representatives. Madam President, I would like I remember when French President François Hollande noted that 12 December 2015 would be remembered forever as an important date for the planet. I also remember when his Prime Minister, Laurent Fabius, and President of the Climate Summit, hit the club on the table and stated that the Paris Agreement was adopted. Everyone got up, and the cheers never wanted to stop. Some cried. Others shouted with happiness. Some may feel that a paper with some signatures will make no difference in reality. I would like to say to them: think about that resolution that the United Nations would begin to engage in the environmental issue that Sverker Åström, Thorsson Thorsson and the then Swedish Government achieved in 1968 after many years of hard work! Think of everything that has happened since then! Politics and international agreements make a difference. There is much that we can be proud of in the UN's environmental work, but there is also much that remains to be done. Now the Swedish Parliament approves the Paris Agreement. Thus, the Swedish government can ratify the agreement and continue to take leadership in the EU and in the world for a climate transition that carries jobs and welfare.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-784	Madam President, I would like On Monday 10 October, there is a morning meeting at a workplace somewhere in western Sweden. There are 20 employees around the table. Someone says: What a beautiful weather today! Very warm and lovely! Someone else says: It is apparently high pressure record since 1986. It's a fantastic autumn we've had! At the table is also little Helin, eleven years old. She gently raises her hand and says: Although I find what is happening to the climate now quite unpleasant. Madam President, I would like Today we have every reason to rejoice. We will have a historic event when the Swedish Parliament approves the Paris Agreement. It marks the end of a long process in which, as the previous speaker said, many people have spent years of time and effort to bring a climate agreement to a conclusion. But it also marks a start, because it is now that the real work on implementing the Paris Agreement begins. Unfortunately, however, Helin is not the only one who is concerned about what is happening on the climate issue. During the summer, the United States has shown leadership in ratifying the climate agreement with China, which then led countries such as Brazil and also the EU to follow quickly. At the same time, we can follow a bizarre presidential election movement in the United States, where one presidential candidate believes that climate change is an invention of China to reduce US competitiveness. Madam President, I would like If the measures announced by the parties to the Paris Agreement are taken together, they will not be enough to reach the two-degree target, let alone the more ambitious objective set in Paris to make efforts to keep the temperature increases below 1.5 degrees. The fact that, in such a context, the EU must be a strong and clear voice and a driving force for an ambitious global climate agreement should be self-evident. However, this is not the case. Unfortunately, we see that the European Union, which has previously played a leading role in international climate action, has now fallen behind large countries such as the United States, China and Brazil. Although it is, of course, very welcome that these countries have already ratified the agreement, it should also lead to a discussion in the European Union on how to restore the role of driving force that the European Union has played in the years leading up to the Paris Summit. Further work therefore requires the EU to play a clearer role, for example by being a driving force in the work on the National Action Plans. Europe must raise its ambitions. It is a way for the EU to show that the Paris Agreement is serious. The Center Party and the Alliance therefore want the EU to adopt a target of 50% emission reductions by 2030, of which 10% will be implemented internationally through flexible mechanisms. Madam President, I would like We also see with concern that the government has not really managed to continue to give Sweden the strong role as a driving and leading EU country in the climate work that was a given during the time of the alliance government. Sweden's credibility in the EU and globally is based on the ability to combine a growing economy with reduced emissions. We are of course very proud that the Swedish climate work took great steps forward during our time in the government, perhaps most clearly illustrated by the fact that despite financial crisis Sweden was able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while the economy and employment strengthened. Measures and economic instruments enabled the path towards targets to be mapped out tonnes for tonnes, and while emissions decreased, Sweden reached for the first time more than 50 per cent of renewable energy. Unfortunately, there are signs that this positive development has now been broken. The latest statistics from SCB show that unfortunately Swedish emissions are increasing and that the trend of a carbon efficient transport sector has been broken. If Sweden is to continue to be a credible player in the international climate work, the government must ensure that this negative trend is reversed. With its climate policy framework, the Environmental Objectives Committee and the seven parties involved in this work have agreed on more ambitious emissions targets than proposed by the European Commission. This has given the government a gold position to work from outside. One thing is certain: both Sweden and the EU must regain the lost leadership in climate action. Madam President, I would like Today, the Swedish Parliament says to Helin: We take your concerns seriously! The Center Party and the Alliance welcome the government proposal, and I am really looking forward to going to Marrakech in November together with the committee chairman Matilda Ernkrans and attending this first meeting of the parties, where Sweden will be a part of it all.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-794	Madam President, I would like In the bill Common standards for the expansion of the infrastructure for alternative fuels, the government wants information about different types of fuel at, for example, the gas stations, but the government does not know what type of information should be specified. The problem is that the information will not do any real good. What information is relevant to consumers? Should there be, for example, the share of CO2 emissions or the energy content of the fuel? For example, price comparison is almost impossible to introduce, since it is not only the cost of the actual fuel per litre of energy that is crucial. For example, a hydrogen car has very low service and maintenance costs, while an ethanol car basically has the same service and maintenance costs as a petrol car. How can a comparison of the different CO2 emissions of fuels be carried out when it is important how and where the fuel has been produced? Hydrogen produced, for example, by solar panels directly connected to the gas station has zero CO2 emissions, while hydrogen produced in Finland using fossil natural gas and then transported to the Swedish gas station by boat and truck has significant CO2 emissions. If a consumer drives his hydrogen car into a gas station, only one kind of information is relevant to the consumer, and that is the cost of the hydrogen itself. The hydrogen motorist is totally uninterested in the energy content of natural gas and petrol, because the hydrogen motorist can only refuel hydrogen. The electric car driver is interested in the cost of electricity per kilowatt hour, and so on. Madam President, I would like In view of this, the Swedish Democrats believe that the question of which price information is relevant to consumers needs to be further investigated. Otherwise, there is a great risk that we will see a plethora of completely unnecessary information boards on our gas stations. I therefore support our reservation No 1.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-799	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the Committee on Transport's report and for the reservation to be rejected. It feels very good that our debate comes right after the Environment and Agriculture Committee's debate on the approval of the climate agreement in Paris. The Centre Party representative in the debate was concerned that greenhouse gases from the transport sector in Sweden are now increasing, and I really am. I also share the Centre Party's assessment that the agreement reached in the Environmental Objectives Committee, when it was set as an ambition that at least 70% of the climate impact of the transport sector should be gone by 2030, is a golden egg. What we are now debating in the Transport Committee is a small piece of the puzzle in this context and in the overall vision that Sweden will become one of the first fossil-free welfare countries in the world. That was our commitment to the Paris Agreement. As I understand it, there is agreement in this House that fossil fuels do not belong to the future in the transport sector and that we should find all the practical solutions needed to make transport independent of oil. What we are now talking about in the report is about standardising the infrastructure so that electricity can be used more efficiently. There has been a long innovation phase, and there will continue to be innovations in this area. But for those who are about to buy an electric car, it is a point to know that you standardize the charge so that it does not become different for different brands. If I am going to make my personal assessment, I believe that most of the charges will be made either at the workplace or near your home, where you charge overnight. However, it does not make the need to standardise the infrastructure any less. The small piece of the puzzle dealing with standardisation in the development of alternative fuel infrastructure is part of the fact that we have implemented an EU directive on the development of a nationwide gas and electric fuel infrastructure. Then why is it needed? Well, if we are to achieve the goal of a fossil-fuel-free transport sector and reduced climate impact, we generally need three major changes. The first is that we change modes of transport. Today, there is not enough and is unlikely to be future energy from renewable fuels to replace the full volume of petrol and diesel available in the transport sector today. Then we need to have a higher energy efficiency both in passenger transport and in freight transport. Changing modes of transport is therefore an essential part of the strategy to reduce the climate impact of the transport system. We also need to change habits. I think everyone shares my opinion that it is absolutely crazy to fish in Norway, send it to Asia to clear and fillet it, freeze it and then send it back to us for consumption. Transport of this kind is not sustainable. We need to find instruments to make sure we get rid of it. The third thing that is needed, apart from changing habits, is a change of fuel. There we have had a very long period where we have tested different variants. Sweden is the only country in the world that has pumping teams. We've tried a lot of other things. We have had a preferential car system and super environmental car premiums. Now is the time for a paradigm shift in the discussion. The paradigm shift is probably that we need to focus more on the fuel and less on the car. I am a tech optimist and familiar enough with the different models of the car manufacturers. It's not the car that's the problem. There are cars that can run on virtually most fuels. What is needed is long-term rules for the development of the fuels needed either for hay gin blending or for low incorporation. This is something that operators and operators in the industry have been calling for for for a long time. As chairman of the Transport Committee, I feel that the pressure on us in politics is now very strong. Both road hauliers and individuals want to feel that what they are doing for the transport that is needed on the roads will contribute less to climate impact. Then we need an expanded charging infrastructure, but also legislation where anti n gene has a reduction obligation and reduces the fossil content of what is sold in the pumps or has a quota obligation that increases renewables. The effect may be the same. It is neither practical nor desirable to change all vehicles that roll for passenger and freight transport, but we need to change fuel instead of changing cars. Nevertheless, if we are to respond to the need for sustainable mobility, we need to make better use of gas today. In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we have produced a report on a fossil-independent transport sector. It's not just the cars it's about. It is about shipping, aviation and the whole transport sector. Then we must see where the respective fuels are most useful. Maritime transport has very low energy consumption if you have large transports to go forward and you do not drive the ships and go too fast. Then it is a point to make it easier for more people to walk along the long coast of Sweden and make use of the 52 harbours that exist. But that's not enough. We also need to gradually see a shift from the bunker oil that prevails in shipping today to more renewable content. Then we need LNG and hubs. Once again, it is not the ships that are limiting, but the access to fuel that must be available. I would like to end by saying that today it is easy for most motorists and road users in big cities to have access to the most necessary means of sustainable mobility in terms of both alternative means of transport and alternative fuels. But Sweden is a long country, and not everyone lives in such a way that they can spare car transport. It is therefore very important that we have a nationwide infrastructure in order to be able to use gaseous fuels and electricity where it fits best. This report and the proposal we now support will be a small piece of the puzzle to make it easier.
i-9d919fef4b2ca7a6-813	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to extend the debate very much. This is a matter in which we agree fundamentally in all parties in the Riksdag, although there are reservations about a small part of the content. Nevertheless, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the Committee on Transport's report and, consequently, the Government's proposal and the rejection of the reservation. When you listen to the debate on European cooperation these days, you can see that it is very marked by what is a failure. It is characterised by the debate on b rexit and on the refugee crisis. However, I would like to say exactly the same as the previous speaker: this is one of those dossiers that shows us in an area where we benefit from European cooperation and where we are taking small steps in the right direction. It's a matter that for most people slides through without looking at it. But for me as an EU-pre-languager – who voted in favour of the referendum when Sweden would join the EU and who is still in favour of EU membership – this is largely what the EU's work is all about. We can ensure that within Europe it is a little easier to do the right thing and a little easier to take a direction that will be favourable to our climate. Let me give you an example. I don't usually think it's a particularly smart idea to use only private experience as a basis for a claim, but I'll still venture to take such an example. About ten years ago, I had the privilege of driving a gas car. I got a company car that was gas-powered. When driving a gas car in Sweden at the time, it was important to have good contacts with others who drove gas cars, because a pretty large part of the time was spent looking for filling points where you could refuel your gas car. For all those who drove the gas car it became a hobby, I would say, to know where there were tanks that were the most optimal. It was different. At one gas tank, a certain amount of fuel could be brought into the car, and at another, a completely different amount could be added. The reason I am telling you this is because I think that is the point when we make decisions like what we are now making and where the EU is doing the work that they are doing now. We must ensure that environmental work works and that driving a gas car and an electric car does not become something that is granted to those who are enthusiasts or experts. We must make it so simple that anyone can choose, and choose, the environmentally friendly alternatives. When I read the accompanying motions, I see that there are some good suggestions. In one of the accompanying movements, we write about eco-labelling and origin labelling. That's good. The Government Office is now working on these issues. When working on these issues, I think that we must constantly ensure that consumers are simplified when they standardise. This also applies to consumers who are not fuel experts and who are not environmental car enthusiasts. We must make it affordable for everyone to be able to easily refuel alternative fuels, biogas and CNG, and it is also about electric cars. This proposal is such a small step, but it is a small step on a big and important issue. However, it is also necessary in this Parliament for a policy to increase the number of charging stations and biofuels. We are going to continue with climate change, which this government has now so successfully introduced and where we increase our efforts. We also need to have the courage to prioritise. Above all, I am addressing the Moderates, who want to back off the band when it comes to fuel taxes. Instead of prioritising alternative fuels, they say: We will probably take back some of the tax increase on fossil fuels, and we will subsidise these fuels more. We need both to make the economic incentives clear in order to be able to run on alternative fuels and standardise so that it will be easy to do so across Europe. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
