i-c1e82354135ec07b-5	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 4 by the Moderates. This bill contains proposals for perhaps the biggest change in Swedish migration policy we have implemented in modern times. The Moderates will vote in favour of the bill. Several of the proposals contained in it are those that we have pushed the government to bring about. By tomorrow's decision in the Chamber, for example, temporary residence permits become the main rule in Sweden, which is a development the Moderates welcome. We have pushed the government for this to happen. Everyone knows that we have experienced an extremely turbulent period in migration policy. Sweden has gone from receiving 80 000 asylum seekers in 2014 to receiving nearly 160 000 people last year. That is a figure we have never experienced before. This means that Sweden has received almost a quarter of a million people in two years. To understand how many there are, a historical comparison can be made. If you look back ten years, with the last two years excluded, the annual average is about 31 000 people. At the same time, we see how the search pressure has decreased significantly in 2016. We are seeing an increasing number of countries in Europe creating their own barriers on the way north. We have an agreement with Turkey which raises many questions but where every objection also has a certain counter-question: what is the alternative? Migration is, of course, a cross-border issue based on finding common and long-term solutions, not least in order to put an end to the totally unscrupulous traffickers who do not hesitate to exploit people's vulnerability. However, it is still very uncertain how cooperation between the EU and Turkey will develop. The driving forces for people to get to Europe, with or without asylum reasons, are still very strong. Without cooperation, we would risk repeating what happened last autumn, i.e. that so many people are going to Sweden in such a short time that it will be difficult to even manage to give shelter to everyone. At the same time, of course, there is an important difference with last year. The situation in Sweden in the summer of 2016 is dramatically different from before. Many accommodations are already full, and the waiting times at the Migration Agency are record-long. Social services are extremely vulnerable; some seventy municipalities have reported themselves because they are unable to meet the obligations required by the law. If Sweden were to experience a new refugee crisis, we would enter it with significantly worse conditions than last year. It is in this situation that the Riksdag must decide on changes in migration policy. In an environment that is so insecure, we believe that the most responsible thing is to continue to make changes in order, order and perseverance in the asylum system. Mr President, I would like to Migration policy is not simple. It is probably in few other areas that people are so directly affected by the decisions we make. As I have said several times in this House, it is important that Sweden harmonises its rules with those of the rest of the European Union. It may seem difficult, but I think the alternative is even more difficult. Staying at far more generous asylum rules than our surrounding world would quickly risk putting Sweden in a problematic situation. Having said that, I would also like to say that it is, of course, not easy to make these decisions. It's not. I wish we had not been in this situation, and I am convinced that with a different policy it might not have been necessary to make quite as drastic changes as those justified by today's difficult situation. Sweden has had a migration policy that for too long has not answered the really difficult questions, for example the fact that it matters how many people are seeking to Sweden in a limited time. It affects everything. It affects housing, integration, sfi, schooling and so on. Anyone who seriously believes that it would be egalt how many people are going to Sweden – that one can somehow think it away, that it is not a factor – has probably never visited a crowded facility where people will soon have to wait a year and a half for decisions on asylum. He or she probably hasn't talked to the social services or for that matter met municipal officials who are now looking for places to complete temporary modular housing with lights and lanterns. It matters, because resources are not unlimited even in a rich country like Sweden – at least not if we want to continue to give people who come here a good reception. This was also a shortcoming in the migration policy pursued by the Alliance in government. It was, of course, before the refugee crisis struck and on the basis of a much lower search pressure than what we have now, but with that said, I think it would have been better if migration policy had been handled differently. Based on this insight, the Moderates began to change their migration policy in January 2015. I think we need to realise that it does not work to receive people without at the same time having an idea of how those who come here can get a way into Swedish society, work, education and community. Otherwise, Mr President, there is a risk that a world in fire will turn into fires in our suburbs. Before the summer of 2015, we presented proposals for Sweden, like the rest of the EU, to move to a temporary residence permit. We pointed out the importance of a sharper dependency requirement for family migration and the medical age assessment of unaccompanied young people so that resources intended for children and young people go to them and not to adults. When we presented our proposals, we were usually severely criticized by the government. This was particularly true of the proposal on temporary residence permits. The Minister for Migration even felt compelled to call the Moderates' proposal a serious one, with the addition: a few politicians and some parties, as soon as it blows a bit, they fall away. ..................................................... The most famous statement on this subject, however, was the Prime Minister himself. Last autumn he criticised the Moderate migration proposals and proclaimed that his Europe does not build walls. We all know what then happened – shortly after, the government introduced identity checks and asylum legislation at the lowest level in the EU. That's how the government Löfven does politics. Mr President, I would like to I think two things can be learned from this. The first is that migration policy has for too long been based on the hope of how we want it to be rather than planned for how it can actually be. Morgan Johansson did not want to introduce temporary residence permits, and Stefan Löfven did not want to tighten up refugee policy at all. However, the result of their own policies became so untenable that they were soon forced to reconsider. I think it is important that we learn from this in the future. It's easy to describe what you want. The difficult thing is to manage to plan things from the beginning because things don't always turn out the way they intended – and be able to take responsibility for them. A refugee policy that should work in a rapidly changing environment cannot continue to consistently lag behind. This is why, among other things, the Moderates have a reservation that the government should return with proposals for a temporary break in the reception of refugees, just as is happening in our neighbouring country, Norway. If last year's refugee crisis should be repeated, it is too late to start thinking about measures. It is therefore important that the legislation is already in place and that it can be used quickly. The second thing you can learn is that decisions that affect many people and involve major changes often benefit from careful preparation and consideration. In just a few weeks, how could Sweden go from the most generous asylum legislation in Europe to the lowest level in the EU? We have all been able to witness a panic shift from the government, where the consequences of its own policy could no longer be borne and where it became necessary to make decisive changes. As I said, the Moderates are behind these changes – they were necessary in the difficult situation in which we find ourselves. At the same time, I do not believe that all the changes would have been necessary if Sweden had harmonised its rules with the rest of the EU at an earlier stage. I can only regret that the government refused to listen to us at the longest. If it had been done in the past, it would have created the conditions for a more long-term, more orderly and indeed more humane migration policy. Mr President, I would like to This law shall be valid for three years with a control post after two years. As far as the control post is concerned, I think that the two government parties have so far given very different information on how to look at it. In any case, we in this House will have to take a position on more proposals in the future. A natural question is, of course, what happens after the law expires in three years. For the Moderates, it is important that we do not go back to the migration policy that applied in the past – that would be a mistake. We will, of course, have reason to come back to that in the future. Another more urgent issue is in a nearby area, namely integration. However, we must also deal with the very foundation of regulated immigration, namely that there must be a difference between a yes and a no in the asylum process. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's forecast, within a couple of years nearly 65 000 people will live in Sweden without permission. That, Mr President, corresponds to a larger Swedish city. At the same time, I note that the police managed to execute 3 000 expulsions this year. The government seems to be satisfied with this year's ambition, which is 4 000. How it goes with the 65 grand I don't understand. I do know, however, that the Moderates cannot accept the shadow society that we see emerging. It undermines confidence in migration policy, it creates exclusion and it also creates a huge vulnerability for many people. Sweden will help people in need, and we will take our share of the responsibility. But in a refugee policy that is characterised by order, it is also that anyone who receives a rejection of their asylum application leaves Sweden and goes home. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by stating that today we will be debating this report while our environment is characterised by great uncertainty. The most responsible thing in that situation is not to pretend that the challenges will soon end or to want to bring Sweden on a path to secrecy for ideological reasons. The most responsible thing in this situation is to design a policy of order and order in migration policy. The Moderates plan for a stronger Sweden includes creating a refugee policy that is long-term and sustainable, to cope with reception but also to help people in need.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-33	Mr President, I would like to You should hear a lot about governments and perhaps even previous governments! We are debating today the Social Security Committee's report 2015/ 16:SfU16, based on the Government proposal Temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden. The purpose of the Temporary Act is to reduce asylum pressure against Sweden at a time when our country has received the most asylum seekers across the EU, in terms of number per capita. Last year we witnessed chaotic scenes that took place at the receptions of the Migration Board throughout the country. At present, albeit less significantly for the public, the large number of asylum seekers continues to affect virtually all aspects of public activity and the welfare system. In several municipalities, the situation can almost be described as a system collapse. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats welcome the Government's proposal as a step in the right direction and as a clear sign that even the Red-Green parties are beginning to realise the consequences of their asylum policy and to approach the views of the Swedish Democrats on this issue. However, we believe that these measures are far from sufficient to reduce the incentives to travel to Sweden for asylum seekers at a time when there is great uncertainty as to what will happen to the EU's external borders. At the same time, our Nordic neighbours are adopting legislation which, on many points, is more restrictive than the proposal we are debating today. In Norway, for example, as we have just heard, asylum seekers are being rejected at the border. This is in line with the Swedish Democrats' previous proposals. The EU-Turkey agreement appears to be on the verge of collapse before it is fully implemented. At the same time, increasing numbers of migrants are coming from Libya. Not least in the light of the fact that the huge reception we have had over the last few decades has already affected our systems, we must ensure that Sweden no longer appears to be an attractive country to get to – cost what it wants and whatever it is that awaits here. The crisis situation with strained resources in reception systems and a pressure on public finances as a result, where Sweden has to borrow in a boom in order to cope with the reception of migrants, will not change today, tomorrow or in three years' time. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, it is obvious to us that the minimum requirement should be that this temporary law should become permanent. If the government considers it appropriate to evaluate the law, the only logical thing in the strained situation we find ourselves in is to do so without the law being repealed. If the Riksdag then finds that there is reason to repeal the law, it can do so, but it should not – quite the contrary. As part of the migration agreement with the Alliance last autumn, the government promised to adhere to the EU minimum level of asylum. However, this has not happened. So-called particularly distressing circumstances remain in the current proposal. The European Qualifications Directive, which forms the basis of the EU minimum level, does not have such a basis. Even more remarkable is the fact that this is not a basis for protection in itself, but it is used because asylum seekers have no real grounds for protection. A concrete example of this is that a large proportion of the unaccompanied persons from Afghanistan, who made up the majority of all the unaccompanied minors who came to Sweden last year, were allowed to stay on this very foundation. Together with the absence of medical age controls, this unfortunately creates a perfect breeding ground for abuse of the right to asylum. It also allows cheating, that it is good for a person in his 30s to declare himself a child and stay in Sweden. Is that what we want? This should also be seen in the light of the fact that Finland has recently removed humanitarian circumstances as the basis for a residence permit, an equivalent to particularly distressing circumstances in Sweden. Here, too, Sweden continues to seem more attractive to apply for asylum in comparison with our neighbouring countries. That is why I believe that a prerequisite for restoring public confidence in the asylum system is to remove particularly distressing circumstances from the government's legislative proposals. Mr President, I would like to The stated purpose of the Temporary Act is to regain control of migration to Sweden. However, the government offers great opportunities for family reunification for migrants who are granted protection status or protection. It may be in line with the EU minimum level. However, family migration is extremely unpredictable. It is not possible to predict how many migrants come to Sweden to reunite with their families. In view of the fact that Sweden already has a tight welfare situation as a result of the migrant crisis, Sweden's democrats believe that there is reason to investigate what possibilities there are to change this. With the Swedish Democrats' proposal, we can increase the predictability of the Swedish asylum system, i.e. fulfil the law's purpose of reducing the number of applicants to Sweden. To conclude, I would like to support the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats, namely Nos 5, 14 and 16.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-46	Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 1, reservation 11 on family reunification, together with the Christian Democrats and Liberals, and reservation 13 on particularly distressing circumstances, also with the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. As has already been said, today we are debating the proposal resulting from the far-reaching proposals presented by the government at a press conference on 24 November. It was in the midst of a chaotic time when it came up to 10 000 asylum seekers to Sweden every week. Last week, 437 people applied for asylum in Sweden. It's less than in a very long time. The proposals were presented just a few weeks after we in the Alliance had agreed with the government on a series of measures to try to improve the situation. The government has now chosen to go considerably further than we agreed and has removed all the important exceptions, including for families with children, which we had negotiated. That is why the Center Party will vote against this bill, and at the same time we call on the government to return to Parliament with a bill that is in line with what we have agreed. However, the Center Party is not alone in being critical of the government making Sweden, together with Greece, Romania, Cyprus and Malta, one of the countries in the EU that provides the worst protection to people on the run. A wide range of referrals, such as the Red Cross, Save the Children and UNHCR, have clearly described how much personal suffering these changes will cause. Preventing severely vulnerable families from living together is nothing but inhumane. Many, including the Migration Agency, have also strongly criticised the removal of the protection grounds that have served as vents for the most distressing cases despite the relatively few people involved. Several consultation bodies have also pointed out that integration with these proposals will deteriorate. People who feel insecure and worry about their children's safety every day will find it very difficult to focus on something else. In addition, both the Law Council and the Swedish Bar Association believe that the legislative process itself has been inadequate. Many point out that there is a complete lack of both objective and impact assessments. The Law Council also expresses concern that it will be very difficult for the Migration Board and the Migration Courts to interpret the law as it is written in such a unclear way. The truth is that we politicians in here already know this. Nevertheless, a large majority are prepared to vote through the bill, because – as I have heard so many times in recent months – there is no other option. But would we say that if it were not for refugees? That the systems take precedence over fundamental human rights such as the right to life and the right to live with your family? If, instead, it were the case that too many children were born, if the school premises were not enough, if the groups were too large and there were not enough qualified teachers, if the housing shortage and overcrowding increased and if the queues for care grew, would we really try to find loopholes in the international conventions intended to safeguard human rights? Or should we make sure to adapt to the new situation? When it comes to refugees, it seems that many believe that they somehow cease to be in need of protection just because they do not exist on Swedish territory. Of course not. If the worst has not happened, they are somewhere and usually in a much worse situation than we could offer here in Sweden. Does this mean that Sweden will help everyone in the world? No, that's not the alternative. However, by giving priority to such restrictive rules, Sweden is making a major contribution to dangerous development in Europe and the world. More and more are on the run, not less. Conflicts continue. Turkey has basically completely closed the border with Syria and is firing with sharp-charged weapons at those who are still trying to get out. Lebanon only releases people who can prove that they are going on a journey. At the border with Jordan tens of thousands of people are trapped. Even in the EU, discussions are mainly about how to reduce the number of people who come here even though they are not close to receiving as many as Turkey, Lebanon or Jordan. The Kenyan Government, in turn, refers to the EU's action when Kenya now wants to close its refugee camps and force hundreds of thousands to be deported to war Somalia. Today, Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson brings a Powerpoint picture to his performances. It shows that Sweden is one of the few countries in the EU that receive fewer asylum seekers now than it did last year at the same time – as it is something to be proud of. But what he forgets to say is that in almost all countries there is a discussion about how to follow Sweden and thus reduce the number. People are hardly received with open arms. The ambition of the government was for others to take responsibility, but soon no one will. I am quite often accused of being naive and de facto. But let me be very clear. To believe that there is currently a humane way of reducing the number of people seeking protection in Sweden, that is naive. To think that others will do more because Sweden does less, that is unrealistic. To think that the world will be better for Swedish citizens or for someone else because you stop respecting human rights, it is a reality that has been reversed. This is not easy; it really is not – not for those who are affected by the decisions we make here, regardless of whose proposal we are voting through, nor for us politicians. The Center Party has put forward a number of concrete proposals to change systems, reduce costs, find more jobs and more housing, improve the situation in schools and in a number of other areas. The proposals have many advantages but also disadvantages. The truth is, in any case, they're not enough all the way. Even if we had to implement every one of our proposals tomorrow, there would be a wide range of challenges and difficulties left – as it is in a rapidly changing society. I know that this is not easy either for many of you who have landed in a different conclusion from me. I have great respect for all people who are doing their very best to find the right path in this incredibly difficult situation; I really do. I know more people than I have sleepless nights. And it's hardly gonna end here. We are faced with a number of important decisions both here in Sweden and at European and global level. I very much hope that we can find ways together to move forward, because we must. We need to move on from this. I would like to conclude with a few words from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi: ignoring a crisis and then demonising its victims when forced to flee is not an appropriate approach. It is not an easy task to deal with the millions of people who are forced to seek help and protection, but it is better to take up the task directly with compassion and with practical solutions. Hiding your head in the sand won't solve anything. But allowing people to achieve their full potential will.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-72	Mr President, I would like to I think that Johanna Jönsson and I can agree on many of the problem descriptions. The world is in many ways a terrible place. In many places it is impossible to continue living and have a life that feels hopeful or meaningful. On the other hand, we deeply disagree on how those of us who have the privilege of living in relatively quiet and prosperous places can best help those in need. The Center Party usually stands up for, believes in and shows a great understanding of different forms of market forces and push-and-pull factors in different areas. Do Johanna Jönsson and the Center Party believe that such forces can also work in the area of migration?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-75	Mr President, I would like to Yes, of course! These factors work in all different areas. There are a number of such factors. In the case of refugees, the push factor is the most important, that you are forced to flee, that you are pushed out and can not be anywhere in the world in security and security. The next step is, of course, where to go after that. In no way do I deny that the pull factors are recording there. It is clear that the uneven distribution in the EU, where Sweden has taken an enormous responsibility compared to all other countries in terms of population, has to do with pull factors. The question is what these factors are. It is this analysis that is lacking in the legislative proposal. For example, are these particularly distressing circumstances? Is it really the rest of the need for protection, as a reason for protection? Or are these other factors? Is it network, that you have friends here? Is it a very generous system for the compensation you receive once you have received a residence permit and that you get help with housing? In many parts of Europe there is hardly any support at all. In the United States you get very basic help for two years, and then you get nothing. When I was in Turkey a while ago, it was told that people will be back there after a few years as quota refugees in the United States because they have not received any support at all. It is clear that these factors play a major role. Sweden's good reputation in the world also plays a role. I who have travelled a lot and lived in many places other than Sweden know that this reputation is very good in many. Of course it matters. The question is what happens if all EU countries go to the lowest level that can be achieved at all. Will people still not continue to choose Sweden because we are the best when it comes to other factors?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-81	Mr President, I would like to Absolutely! Sweden has an incredible number of advantages around the world. I am extremely grateful to live here, and I wish that as many people as possible could have these conditions. But I understand and realize that it can never happen by thinking that people have to go to Sweden to get such a life. To say good words – that we can't help the whole world but that we can help those who get here – is really to close our eyes to the outside world. The Swedish Democrats have long said that if we want to help those in extreme need, if we want to help people who are in an emergency situation, and if we want to make a real effort for the outside world, it can never happen by thinking that we have made a great humane effort if we let a few more people into the country. It is there that the Center Party and, in my opinion, all the other parties are still in the completely wrong place mentally. The Center Party and Johanna Jönsson talk about helping those in need, but at the same time they want to continue to build their policy on people going to Sweden on different roads. One is advocating more legal ways here, as I can understand, if one now believes that the solution is that people are moving to our country. But that's not the answer. No matter how many times we receive people and how many numbers you look at, we will never be able to help the majority of those in need. We will never be able to spread our welfare if we can barely keep it ourselves because we have unregulated reception. It is good to realise that factors work here too, but how can pull factors not continue to seem strong?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-86	Mr President, I would like to I told you pull factors are of course recording. I was very clear about that. I have not said that they do not matter; there you have probably misunderstood me, Paula Bieler. We are not at all basing our policy on people getting here. In that case, Paula Bieler has misunderstood what the Center Party is pushing for politics. We want to see an EU-wide system for a more even distribution within the EU, based on legal ways and on people being able to seek asylum as soon as they have removed from conflict and then placed with quotas in the EU. That's how we want to build the system, not by people hiring smugglers. It is an incredibly destructive system in which people suffer very badly, and it also fattens criminal organisations. This is definitely not something that we in the Center Party want to maintain or work for. The last time I debated with the Swedish Democrats here was the solution to help on the ground to help inside Syria. If that's the suggestion you have, I don't know what to call it--I used to talk about naive and reality-averted. In that case, one has no idea what it looks like in Syria right now. I also do not understand this aid on the ground when it looks like I described Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, that is, the countries bordering on the conflict. People aren't even released there anymore because they can't travel. That's the truth. How can you help on the spot? What's in place? And what is it that says that Jordan has a much greater responsibility for this than Sweden? For me, this is something that is devoid of reality – not to see reality for what it is all over the world, not just in Sweden.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-91	Mr President, I would like to It is called breathing space when Turkey does what it has been paid for by the EU and keeps people on the run. Early Sunday morning, 11 people were shot to death by Turkish border guards trying to cross the border. Several of them were children, someone's beloved kids. It is called breathing space when the EU hands over to a Greece in chaos to receive some of the world's most vulnerable. Greece has not been able to examine asylum applications fairly or with dignity for years. Now they are keeping people on the run locked up for Europe. It is called breathing space when land after land closes its borders so that no one on the run can get past. It is called breathing space when Europe's countries are now competing to make life for asylum seekers as difficult, painful and inhumane as possible. And now Sweden is presenting a proposal that will scrape the absolute bottom in many ways. It's called breathing space, but it's a shame. The right of asylum was not created for days of peace and freedom. The asylum law was created for a time like this, when people more than ever need protection from war, persecution and terror. Courage is defending each other. Courage is to stand together, once it comes down to it. There are many of us who want to see such a political courage right now, who want to see a red-green government show in action that we humans are actually connected. We are not bound to repeat the mistakes of history. In fact, we can look back, learn, and choose another path that leads to a better future. Today's refugee conventions were added after World War II so that mankind would never again betray the most vulnerable. As the world is now in the midst of the greatest refugee disaster since then, it is essential that we remind one another of this very thing: that human dignity is worth defending. We need to maintain the radical idea that we are all part of the same humanity, with the same right to live, protect and evolve. It is not an easy task. Yet it is absolutely necessary. As always, the choice in society is between division and cohesion. As long as we stand up for each other, we will win. It is a choice we have to make, every day, in both everyday life and our political decisions. The temporary law placed on Parliament's table today takes the wrong path. You can't say that you care about refugees and migrants who drown if you don't care about their lives on land-- so tweeted Doctors Without Borders on Saturday. The quote points to the most painful point in the government's defence of the law on temporary residence permits, family fragmentation and intervention in the right of asylum, on which Parliament will vote tomorrow. By closing the legal road to security that family reunification has been, the government will force more people out on a deadly voyage at sea. The chances of achieving security on land are linked to how many deaths we will count in the Mediterranean and at Turkey's borders. The vast majority in this House know very well that the law put on Parliament's table will do nothing better at all, not at all – not for people on the run, not for the EU's ability to agree on fair and dignified reception and the right to asylum worthy of the name and not for the establishment of those who have come well. On the contrary, the aim of the law is a simple one, namely to frighten people on the run from seeking protection in Sweden. Yet, in a free moral case, a government asks the Riksdag to put the right of asylum at risk when it is most needed and fertilises racism and division in society by allowing rights and conditions to be determined by where we were born. To be honest, it is difficult to have discussions about integration seriously when the bill more than anything else will impair people's ability to land, heal and become part of our common future. Establishment plans, validation and education will be broken by temporary permits, and people will choose any job with any salary and conditions to be able to reunite with their family. I'm thinking of one of my absolute favorite sounds-- I also think I share it with most of the world's parents-- and that's the sound of safe sleeping kids, deep breaths and mumbling dreams. Sweden should be a country where broken families can be reunited and relive just the basic security – a good night kiss, a comforting hand to chase away a nightmare or just knowing that we are there. It should be simple. Children have the right to be reunited with their parents if, for example, they have been torn apart on the run from the chaos of war. It is guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Since Sweden has signed the Convention, it would be believed that it should be complied with, not least with a feminist government that has aimed to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. But that is not the case with the new government bill. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that the best interests of the child should be given priority in all decisions concerning children and should be tested individually. The new law will allow only those granted asylum as refugees to be reunited with their families. For nine out of ten of those fleeing Syria, this means that this possibility will not exist, as they will be granted protection as an alternative need for protection. The right to family reunification is deprived of them without individual examination. Children separated from their families are among the most vulnerable groups of children. They easily become victims of violence, abuse and exploitation. How does it put the child's best interests first? How does it rhyme with a feminist government? Mr President, I would like to What we say and do matters. Our words and actions can either bring people together or fuel their hatred. The party whose core is to create contradictions in society, which allows its representatives daily to incite themselves and which also places addresses on intended refugee homes online, and which boasts that they will help to appeal modular houses for new arrivals, obviously bears a responsibility. Both police and hate crime researchers point out that this kind of hateful rhetoric is at risk of triggering. If Sweden is described as being threatened and under attack, there are people who may feel called to act on it. We now see this in mobs who are patrolling streets, hooligans attacking mosques, hate crimes against Africans and Muslims and in terror against asylum homes. It's no wonder. If people open the newspaper every day and read that society is collapsing, even if the economy is strong and growth among the highest in Europe, they are afraid. If people are to listen every day to ministers like Morgan Johansson, who say that Sweden is not a hotel when he talks about the reception system, or to EU Minister Ann Linde, who says that the majority of people who cross the sea from Libya are economic refugees, is it strange that people are scared and worried? We all have a responsibility for racism... for what we say and for what we do. It is time for the government and everyone in this House to take this responsibility. In fact, it is not people who have just come from Syria who have privatised the health centres and sold them for a cheap money to their friends. It is not the need for protection from Eritrea that has made sure that welfare thieves pump tax money out of our common treasury, tax money that would go to nurses to take care of Grandma or to an extra teacher in the classroom. It is not the lone people from Afghanistan who have created a pension system that means that women who have worked their whole lives for small wages do not make it on retirement. It is not raped women from Iraq who have been giving social services priority for years. No, this is the result of political decisions. Let us not blame others. The differences between people's living conditions and security, as a result of the law that we are now debating, will mean that racism in society will become even stronger. This will mean that our rights to family, to security and to the labour market will be determined by where we were born. It has consequences for how we view each other and what value we are considered to have. This racism affects everyone who is somehow considered new in our society, including those of us who have actually lived here for generations. While the government is talking about breathing space, people are taking their last breaths in the Mediterranean. While the government talks about order in asylum policy, it leaves the reception of some of the world's most vulnerable to the villain state of Turkey and to a chaotic Greece on the brink of ruin. While the government is talking about safeguarding safe jobs in the face of the temporary residence permit that makes everyone in the labour market insecure, both the one who is completely dependent on the employer to stay and to see their family and the colleague who works next door. The government says it has no choice. That's not true. Of course we have a choice. Although the historically large number of people who came to Sweden last year pressured the municipalities and the authorities in some places, we actually managed to do it. As the Swedish Civil Protection Agency had to go out and point out, there was no system collapse. On the other hand, there was a society whose well-being and preparedness were not equipped for crisis. However, a civil society of volunteers did what was necessary to help authorities and municipalities meet this challenge. There were many radical things that the government would have chosen to do in order to facilitate reception and defend the right to asylum, instead of putting forward the proposals that we are discussing today. It could have put pressure on the EU to take joint responsibility by holding back the membership fee until other Member States do their part of the job. Instead, it put the refugees under pressure. It could have made the Public Procurement Act an exception instead of imposing an exception on the right of asylum. It could have temporarily freed social workers and government officials from some of the extensive documentation requirements that bury them in paperwork rather than allowing them to focus on reception. It could have increased the number of communes of arrival for unaccompanied minors. It could have launched a major community effort to build Sweden bigger and stronger by offering cheap government top loans to boost housing construction. It could have called a press conference and said that Sweden stands up for people on the run but that the times for tax evasion and welfare thieves are over. But it didn't. Instead, it chose to listen to fear and slam the door in the face of people fleeing. The government says that by adapting Sweden's asylum policy to EU minimum levels, it wants other countries to take responsibility. It's pretty obvious it's not working. Instead of Sweden being seen as a leading country leading the way, the brown right in Europe uses the Swedish turnaround in asylum policy as a reason to keep its borders closed or join the competition to the bottom. Former High Commissioner for Refugees Guterres said: The world is not better off if more people make mistakes. More people need to do the right thing. Nothing could be more true. Yet the government chose to stop doing what is right. Even if we pretend for a moment that we accept the logic of the government, the bill still does not go together. The whole basis of the proposal is that fewer asylum seekers should come to Sweden. It is this objective that should justify the dismantling of conventions and the fact that the proposed legislation actually breaks the right to family reunification and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It shall justify the refusal of LGBTQ persons to protection when the grounds for protection are removed and, in particular, unaccompanied minors from Afghanistan cannot stay, even if they have particularly sensitive reasons. Morgan Johansson has also put a number on what reception he thinks Sweden can handle. Somewhere between 50 000 and 100 000, 1 000 – 2 000 a week, he has said. But the thing is that very few have applied for asylum in Sweden so far this year. It is not because peace has sunk across the world and dictatorships have turned into democracies, but because the EU has signed its shameful agreement with Turkey and closed the borders through Europe by means of ID controls and military. According to Morgan Johansson, we would therefore be able to receive 50 000 – 100 000. If the trend continues this year, about 32,000 people will seek protection in Sweden – 32 000. Even with the logic of the government, the situation should therefore be very well under control. Why, then, should the law we are now discussing be adopted? Why should we divide families and create insecurity that we know will have enormous human costs, but which will also worsen for establishment and inclusion? It doesn't make any sense. Even with the logic of the government, we do not need to do this. There are many other things to be said about the bill and the widespread criticism it has received. It is a broad and coherent criticism ranging from courts to lawyers' associations, authorities and voluntary and human rights organisations. I hardly believe that any bill has ever faced such massive resistance. But the government chooses not to listen. The choice we face is an important choice. It is a choice that Sweden has made before. The right always wants tax cuts and insecurity, lower wages and higher rents. That's not surprising at all. On the other hand, it is a change of system when a red-green government sees insecurity, more power for the employer and broken families as solutions to the challenges we now face. The key to Sweden's success has never been lower wages or lower security than in other countries. Instead, our strength has been that we have invested in society – in people, education, housing, health and equality. This is when Sweden develops and grows. It shows our whole modern history. Earlier generations got better education and better jobs while we got more. This was possible thanks to profitable investments. This is a lesson that Sweden must take on board today. The Left Party stands ready to help the government build Sweden bigger and stronger. However, restrictions on the right of asylum, insecurity and family fragmentation are not the way forward. Sweden can do better than that. Parliament can do better than that. The Left Party is not going to turn people on the run when they need us most. That is why tomorrow we are voting against the proposal on the law on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit. And we hope to be joined by members of parliament from other parties, who, deep down, know – you know – that a crap team can be nothing but a crappy team, no matter how much you decorate it or whatever excuses you make up. I request the approval of reservation 1 and the rejection of the bill.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-128	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to make it clear that I supported all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, that is, also reservation 18, which we have left with the Christian Democrats. In Christina Höja Larsen's speech, it was said that people are at the very bottom of the proposal. But if you open your eyes and raise your eyes beyond Sweden and Europe, you can see that it is not they who are at the absolute bottom that get to Sweden's borders. People who are at the very bottom have not even been able to think about it or have dared to hope to get here. We also heard in the speech that the right of asylum was created for situations such as this. But that's not true. Asylum law was created because of a completely different situation, when one had seen the terrible thing that can happen when countries and states oppress their own citizens, drive them on the run and do not allow them or give them the opportunity to stay and build a life. That is why asylum must be sought on the ground. The aim is that countries should not be able to continue driving people on the run. That is why we are seeing what is happening today. People are forced to try to get to the other side of the world because they hope that they may be able to get help there. We see people who sit in boats to cross the Mediterranean, and who cross land borders, because we are not doing our work in the right place. The length of the routes is bad, not only for those at the absolute bottom; it also creates opportunities for people to exploit the systems. We have seen an increasing number of reports of people who have claimed that they have come from a certain place but have not really done so. We have seen reports of people who have claimed that they are at a certain age, but who then turn out not to be. My question to the Left Party Christina Höj Larsen is simply: Does she think that more than capitalists can imagine using systems?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-134	Mr President, I would like to Of course it is, Paula Bieler. The single biggest and most important reason why people need to use refugee smugglers is that there are no legal ways to seek asylum. That is how we best fatten the smugglers of refugees, with decisions taken in the EU and in this House. My point in my speech – it will possibly bypass all Swedish democrats – is that by no longer allowing the most important legal route to Sweden, namely family reunification, we will fatten refugee smugglers even more. Now it is not very interesting for Paula Bieler, because her focus on the right of asylum is very diffuse. In her previous replica shift with Johanna Jönsson we also heard the same old common idea that if the house is burning we should send in some buckets of water, while the rest of us think it is perfectly reasonable to use the fire department. But it is an old discussion that we have had many times. I'm still glad Paula Bieler asked for a line on me. I have a few questions. What is strange, above all, is that the Swedish Democrats prefer to discuss exactly what Paula Bieler asked about. But the Swedish Democrats never have any suggestions as to how we can cope with the reception that actually takes place. What are we gonna do with people who are actually here? I have here an article, which I am now showing to the Members of this House, which concerns the fact that the SD wants to help people to appeal against modular houses, in case they occur in their neighbourhood. SD is completely uninterested in making things work. Apparently, they'd rather people live on the street than get a proper reception of refugees in order. We never hear any suggestions as to what to do with people. You continue to pretend, naively and world-from-world, like people wouldn't be here.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-139	Mr President, I would like to It is very easy to answer that question. The Swedish Democrats will never encourage people to come here illegally or encourage those who have done so. That is why we do not have a reception system for this either. On the other hand, we have proposed reception systems if we were to be the closest place. We have also proposed increased quota refugee reception, as is done in the organised and legal way that exists. That is what we support. I asked earlier whether it might be possible for people to use the systems. I got a diffuse but possibly half-yes answer to that. On the other hand, they are strongly opposed to all the various proposals aimed at checking that the information that people seeking Sweden actually state is correct. It would be interesting to hear why, for example, we are consistently opposed to the age of those who claim to be children being controlled, instead of having situations that we have been able to see and read about, where adults, preferably men, live with vulnerable children and continue to harass them here. We hear recurring stories about women who are forced to flee asylum homes in Sweden. But no, apparently none of those who came here seeking asylum who could commit crimes or who did not have a respectful view of their fellow human beings. We see the consequences of conflicts on accommodations, and we see that they have been moved here. But this is something you close your eyes to. Everything is about Sweden not giving enough. I would very much like to hear what the Left Party wants to do with those who have lied in their applications and who continue to oppress people in our country, even if they happen to call themselves asylum seekers at the moment.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-143	Mr President, I would like to We are all aware of the fact that there are people in all ethnic groups and in all groups who exploit the system. The Swedish Democrats, for example, have their own MPs who have made it a habit. I think we all know and understand that. The conditions for migrant smuggling depend entirely on the fact that there are no legal ways here. That should also be obvious. Paula Bieler says you don't want to help someone who's come here illegally. There are hardly any ways to get here legally. That's the problem. Otherwise, we would not see dead people in the Mediterranean. That's how it is. When we come to the question of women's rights in society, what is said is obvious nonsense. The Left Party fights in every place and every day for women's freedom, and we have done so for a very long time. But for you, only the identity of the perpetrator is interesting. It doesn't matter to us. Of course, women should be protected from abuse in exactly the same way in refugee homes as in the rest of society. That is why it is important for us that there is good, strong and sufficient funding for women's shelters, for example. That's why we work with these things every day. The other day we had a discussion in committee when the Migration Board presented how people can be protected. Precisely if there are cheaters in SD's parliamentary group, there are also men in all possible groups who commit exactly the same kind of abuse, intended if they were born in Kiruna or Kigali. We fight that every day.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-148	Mr President, I would like to The last few weeks we have heard our children and young people sing I think it's great to see these excited and happy children and young people who have a long summer vacation ahead of them, and the students who are finally done with their studies. Their biggest problem is whether it should rain so that they cannot swim or if they should have any other leisure activity during the summer vacation. Unfortunately, this is not something that young people around the world have the opportunity to experience. There are many conflicts and wars in the world that make these children feel that the bright future is not theirs. They will not experience anything long and free summer holidays. Many of them don't even have the opportunity to go to school, and their thoughts don't go to leisure activities, but rather to how to get food for the day and how to make sure they don't die. Many of these children are on the run, either alone or at best with their families. A small part of these people make their way to Europe and an even smaller group of people make their way to Sweden for security and to start a new life. Last year there were many people on the run who went to Sweden, and our reception system was under pressure. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the officials and those who, on a voluntary basis, did their very best to make these people feel safe in our country. Liberals were the driving force for a cross-block agreement, so that we could jointly find a way forward in order to continue, as humanely as possible, to provide security for people on the run. At the same time, we were very critical of the fact that the EU and the other EU countries did not take greater responsibility in this crisis situation. In October, we reached an agreement on migration between six parties: the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. In November, the government parties called a new press conference and put forward further proposals for changes. These proposals were not something that the rest of the parties had been allowed to negotiate. Today, these proposals are on Parliament's table. The proposals are partly based on the Migration Agreement, but with too far-reaching changes in a restrictive direction. This means that we will vote in favour of the committee's proposal in the report, but because we have reservations about the restrictive changes, we also have a number of reservations. We in the Liberals support the agreement we made in October. We had to change Swedish migration policy so that it becomes more like in other European countries. But now we in the Liberals believe that the government goes far too far. We cannot support the proposal that Sweden should now have a minimum level of migration legislation based on international rules. We in the Liberals don't want to be part of breaking up families with children. Families who have split up before, or during, the flight must have the opportunity to be reunited once they have arrived and have been granted their residence permit. Preventing this reunification will make integration considerably more difficult, and that is not in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It says that children are entitled to their parents. The danger is that the remaining members of the family – often women and children – will be forced to flee in seaworthy boats across the Mediterranean, and we do not want to contribute to this. In Sweden, permanent residence permits have been the rule and temporary residence permits have been the exception. In the rest of Europe, it is the opposite. In the migration agreement, we said that we would introduce a temporary residence permit of three years. Now the government proposes a temporary residence permit of 13 months. These very short residence permits will make the situation more difficult for the individual to ultimately influence so that they become integrated into Swedish society. At present, the Migration Agency has a lot of matters on its table, and it is also not justifiable to allow the Migration Agency to review all residence permits every 13 months. In the migration agreement, we pushed Liberaler to increase the number of quota refugees from 1 900 per year to 5 000 per year. The government then proposed that half of these should go to family migration. We have, and many other parties, opposed this. That is why we are now pleased that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have joined our line. The quota refugees will continue to be taken out by the UNHCR and not used for family migration. Our hope is that the people who are now on the run and next year can be in Sweden can be involved in singing Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report. We are in favour of all Liberal reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 11.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-163	Mr President, I would like to In this speech, we again heard – and I think we will hear it more often during today's debate – that we should work on more countries taking their responsibilities. I totally agree with you on this. Sweden should also take its responsibilities seriously. As I have pointed out in previous shifts, I do not see it as a way of taking responsibility when one believes that one solves the major problems that exist by encouraging people to illegally get to Europe and Sweden, cost whatever it wants. This is not just where we can help the world's most vulnerable. In fact, this is not where we can help them. Many of those who have come here during the last crisis – which, thankfully, more and more people have realised that it really is – have left what should be safe places, camps, because our part of the world and perhaps especially Sweden has gone ahead and shown that it is appropriate to take from the aid to give to the reception here. Reception in our part of the world is seen as a kind of effective aid. Aid organisations have demanded, requested, prayed and begged for more resources. There are people who have left safe places because there is no food, medicines or protection in refugee camps or because quota refugee systems do not work. Those countries which should be able to receive those most in need of permanent resettlement fall apart in unregulated and non-functioning reception. My question to Emma Carlsson Löfdahl and the Liberals is: How do you want to take responsibility for the hungry, sick and frozen people who are in a place that should be safe?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-167	Mr President, I would like to It would be very simple if everything in life were black or white. But I have learned over the years that life consists of a large greyscale. We can't help all the people on the ground. There is no way to reach everyone, as we have also heard previous speakers say. Of course, we should do as much as we can to help those in vulnerable situations. Paula Bieler said that we encourage people to get to Sweden. I do not know whether anyone in this House has encouraged anyone to flee to Sweden. I do not think that you are fleeing to another country and leaving security, family, work and friends if you do not absolutely have to. That is why I believe that we must also help those who come here. But one doesn't have to rule out the other.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-169	Mr President, I would like to Sure, I thought the Liberals as a party realized that the world has a greyscale. There are many levels of bad, and there are many levels of good. It is not only when it is life and death that people are motivated to seek all the way to our part of the world. There are such huge global welfare gaps that it is justified for an incredible number to try to get here. I fully understand that. But I also understand that as long as we have a system where we allow our resources to go to those who may not be most vulnerable – although we say that we are helping precisely the most vulnerable and those who are on the run for their lives – we turn a blind eye to those who are still in the immediate vicinity of or perhaps in war zones. We turn a blind eye to those who keep running for their lives. Instead, we are helping those who cross the bridge from Denmark and the rest of Europe or perhaps those from the other side of the Mediterranean where there is not really an acute crisis. They shouldn't have to risk lives and limbs, but perhaps they feel they have to do it because we don't take our responsibility to give sensible help in neighborhoods – not exactly where the bombs fall. It is not about throwing water on a fire, it is about ensuring that ambulances are close, that emergency help can be given and that food is in place. We in the Swedish Democrats have budgeted to cover the full cost of the World Food Programme. We have those resources if we do not waste money on people who choose illegal ways to get all the way here because we reward those roads. I ask again: what do the Liberals want to do to help those who are most vulnerable in the world? Because they're not the ones who get here.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-174	Mr President, I would like to We know that there are very many people in our world who are vulnerable. It would be great if we could help all of them. Unfortunately, we cannot do so, but we will help as many as we have the opportunity to help. As I said before, life is not black or white. It is not that we can direct our efforts towards just one or the other. As things stand today, we are helping as best we can on the ground, but we are also helping the people who flee here. I am absolutely sure that those who come here are in need of protection if they are allowed to stay. Our legislation has a control system that examines whether you need protection, and if that is the case, you can stay and get our help.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-175	Mr President, I would like to There is a humanitarian crisis in the world. War, oppression, Islamist terror groups and persecution of ethnic and religious groups make millions of people run away. Now there are 65 million people, according to a recent report from the UNHCR. At the same time, many others, for perfectly understandable reasons, are looking away from poverty and misery towards what they hope will be a fresh start. Around 1 million people joined the EU in 2015. At the beginning of this year, the number of refugees and migrants who came to the Union was several times higher than in the corresponding period last year. Since the entry into force of the controversial agreement between the EU and Turkey, the number of migrants entering the Greek islands has decreased significantly, while the number entering Italy has increased. However, it remains difficult to assess how this will develop in the future. Sweden has for a long time been one of the countries in Europe and the West that most have applied to and that has taken a very large responsibility in welcoming asylum seekers. In the last two years, almost a quarter of a million people have applied for asylum here, which is more than in any other country in the Western world in relation to the size of the population. If the other EU countries had received as many asylum seekers per capita as our country last year, the Union could jointly welcome as many as 8 million asylum seekers in a year when the need was very great. It is embarrassing that no more countries were willing to contribute. In Sweden's great responsibility for welcoming asylum seekers, there is much to be proud of. We are an open and welcoming country. There is obviously a great deal of humanity here too. When the situation was at its most strained during the autumn, a wave of humanity swept over Sweden. A great many volunteers showed a strong commitment to helping those fellow humans who were in a very difficult situation. Without the efforts of civil society, Sweden would not have managed the autumn as well as we did anyway. This gives reason to feel confident. It strengthens Christian Democrats' faith in man's inherent ability to do good and generally contribute to a good society. Mr President, I would like to However, the recent number of asylum seekers presents Sweden with challenges whose scope cannot yet be fully assessed. It is not only the Swedish asylum system that has been subjected to great pressure, with too long processing times and a difficult housing situation. Other central social functions, such as health care, school and social welfare, are also subject to a huge burden. In the future, there are also major challenges linked to, among other things, the labour and housing markets. For example, it cannot be ignored that Sweden has so far very weak results in terms of integrating people with lower qualifications and training into the labour market. All this needs to be taken very seriously. That explains why the debate on migration policy today differs a great deal from what it looked like a few years ago. Mr President, I would like to Although few were able to anticipate the sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers to Europe in the second half of 2015, it was definitely possible to realise at the beginning of this year that the needs could be expected to be large as well as that Sweden alone could not provide protection to all those who need it. After Sweden received more than 81 000 asylum seekers in 2014, it was therefore clear to us Christian Democrats that action needed to be taken. For this reason, at the end of 2014 – 2015, we put forward proposals on temporary residence permits as the main rule for all persons in need of protection, a faster process of refusing asylum from so-called safe countries and lower establishment allowances combined with lower taxes for new arrivals working. The aim of these proposals was to reduce the costs of reception, improve integration and put pressure on other EU countries to take greater responsibility. However, the government's lack of action meant that no such measures were taken in time. It was therefore necessary to deal with migration in a different way than in the past autumn. In October, six of Parliament's parties, including the Christian Democrats, reached an agreement on 21 actions in response to the refugee crisis. The aim was to create order and order in the reception, get a better establishment and dampen the cost increases. As this was not enough to remedy the situation, the Christian Democrats presented at the beginning of November a number of additional measures. Among other things, we called for the introduction of temporary internal border controls. We also put forward proposals to achieve more effective expulsions, to provide more accurate decision-making documents for asylum investigations and to set up a crisis commission with the aim of achieving better integration. At the same time, however, it took the government until 24 November to present the measures that form the basis of the report we are discussing today. Mr President, I would like to The slowness shown by the government in the situation that arose was nothing but remarkable. For too long nothing was done, and when the government finally acted, the pendulum turned completely where both rhetoric and action came to differ completely from one day to another. Had measures been taken in the past, in accordance with the proposals we Christian Democrats have presented, we would at least have been better prepared. Now we have to deal with the slow action of the government and the very far-reaching proposals that have been put forward on this basis. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the concrete proposals contained in the report we are debating today, I would therefore like to start by reminding you clearly that they did not come into being after broad political negotiations. They come from the government parties of the Social Democrats and the Green Party and, therefore, from the Christian Democrats, we take a position on them based on our own positions. How we stand on every proposal in detail can be read in both the report and in our follow-up motion on the Government proposal, but here in this House I would like to make a few comments. With regard to the proposal that temporary residence permits should be used as a general rule for all categories of protection other than quota refugees, we believe that, in accordance with our previous proposals, this is entirely reasonable. However, it is our view that all temporary residence permits should be valid for three years, and if the need for protection persists for a person who has had such a temporary residence permit for three years, the residence permit should be permanent. At the same time, we believe that these provisions should be made permanent within the framework of the Aliens Act and thus not be part of the limited-term law. We also share the view that the general rule should be that a person who has a temporary residence permit should be granted a permanent residence permit if he or she has acquired, within the three-year period, an employment or economic activity on which he or she can make a living. Here, however, it must be ensured that a provision of this kind does not lead to abuses where, for example, a person with a fixed-term residence permit is given the opportunity to buy a permanent job or forge a business activity. The government should return to the Riksdag with proposals for measures to curb such potential abuse. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the government's proposal to limit the possibility of family reunification for families with children and to tighten up the dependency requirement beyond what we agreed in the migration agreement last autumn, the proposal opposed by the Christian Democrats is the one that we are opposed to. On the contrary, our position is that it is very strange that the government chooses to come forward with proposals that restrict the ability of families with children to stick together over other proposals aimed at dealing with the migration situation. In addition to the proposals for Christian Democratic measures I have mentioned earlier in this speech, we have made proposals to establish asylum application areas close to our major border crossing points in order to speed up registration and decision-making processes and prevent asylum seekers from deviating. We have put forward proposals to speed up and streamline the expulsion of persons who have been refused asylum applications, including in relation to more detention places and increased funding to the police. We have put forward several proposals to speed up the establishment of those who are granted a residence permit. In our budget exercise this autumn, we will also present proposals for savings in the area of migration to finance the potential cost increases resulting from the deviations we propose compared to the government proposals we are now discussing. However, it is our starting point that families with children should be able to reunite. It is important because all people feel best to have their loved ones around them. Many child and human rights organisations have criticised the Government's proposals. Family reunification is one of the few legal routes to Sweden. But it is also a question of integration. It is better that the people who have come to Sweden focus on establishing themselves in the labour market and in society as soon as possible instead of worrying about their relatives. At the same time, the Christian Democrats believe that the starting point should be that the right to family immigration should apply only to the relatives of whom the asylum seeker has been informed at the time of arrival. It is both to facilitate the identification of asylum seekers and to gain better control of reception. There are asylum seekers who withhold information about relatives in order to strengthen their protection grounds. This could jeopardise the legal certainty of the asylum seeker, but also undermine the legitimacy of the reception system in the public domain. It must pay to tell the truth and contribute to making the basis of the decision as complete as possible. Therefore, we will create incentives to tell you about relatives already on arrival. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that a unanimous Social Security Committee supports an announcement to the Government – partly based in the KD Movement – that the current regime for the selection of quota refugees to Sweden should continue to apply. Unfortunately, there has been uncertainty about this as a result of certain statements by the Minister for Migration at a press conference on 7 April. As I said, I shall stay there and refer to the report and to our follow-up motion on how we stand in detail on the other proposals made by the Government. As far as our reservations in the report are concerned, we are, of course, all behind us. However, for time to come, I choose that in this House, I should merely like to endorse reservation 6 which is our own and reservation 11 which we have with the Centre Party and the Liberals.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-201	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Christian Democrats have come to many insights in recent times cannot have escaped very many. We even have a joint reservation in the report, which quite a few might have thought of quite a while ago. However, I am going to focus here, of course, on the place where we do not yet feel the same. The Christian Democrats, together with some others in this House, have opposed the fact that it is now finally being proposed that family immigration should be linked to stricter demands. Personally, I find it unsurprising that it is perhaps not at all convenient to have family immigration of the kind associated with people fleeing. It is for the simple reason that it keeps alive a system that allows you to encourage fragmentation on the other side. It makes it profitable to send a person ahead. We have also seen it through the years and through different stories. Lonely young people are sent to Sweden to be able to bring the remaining members of the family. The young people who come here, usually men, have not had a reasonable chance alone to pay for the illegal roads that we know are the only ways to get here to seek asylum on site in Sweden. This has, of course, been done in other ways. This has been done by knowingly making decisions in families to send a person ahead. There's no other way to get here. It is not those who run away from impulse or necessity who manage to get all the way here, as I have stressed several times before, but it is premeditated. I simply wonder why the Christian Democrats want to continue to support a system that divides families.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-206	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that the Christian Democrats absolutely want to see more legal ways into Europe and Sweden. An important such system is resettlement for quota refugees. We are pleased that Sweden will now increase its quota from the current 1 900 to 5 000 by 2018. We also want to see – and we are working towards this – that more countries, not least EU countries, take responsibility for receiving quota refugees. There are too few of them today, and there are too few quotas. I think you could do a lot of things there. There is much to object to the current system. But to restrict the possibility of family reunification and thereby remove another of the few legal paths to Sweden that actually exist, we do not see it as the right way forward. It would divide families further rather than help to keep them together. In my speech, I set out the main argument as to why we are opposed to the government's proposal to restrict family reunification. First of all, we feel that all families feel the best way to stay together. It is also a question of integration. It is simply better if the people who come here to Sweden can focus on entering the labour market and entering society instead of worrying about their relatives who are somewhere else.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-209	Mr President, I would like to We often hear about more legal ways, but as I said, there are legal ways. Of course, emergency refugees should be helped with security as early as possible, and we then have resettlement systems that should be extended to all those who really need it. But it becomes quite clear in this change of line that the starting point for the Christian Democrats is that help is best given by people getting all the way here and permanently living here. This is not about emergency help for those who are most vulnerable, but about as many people as possible building a life in different ways in Sweden. Then you don't help those who are most vulnerable. I still did not really get the answer to my question, which concerned why people want families to continue to split up. That's what's happening. The families don't split up when a person gets a residence permit here and can't bring the rest of the family here. The family is already divided at that time. The division takes place before, when a single individual from a family is sent before here. Instead, we should invest in sufficient help in the vicinity so that we do not encourage further travel to our part of the world at the expense of families that split up during the journey and may never be able to reunite – not only because of the rules here but also because the way here is dangerous. It is difficult to find your family again if you have moved to the other side of the world on the roads that exist. In addition to this, I have only one brief question, and it may be that I have not really been following the turns. Christian Democrats, who often focus on children, have long opposed medical age tests. The last thing I could find was that you were still against clear tests on children. If that is still the case, I would like clarification as to why and what else you want to do to ensure that it is children who receive the help that children should have.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-213	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, as I said, we want more legal ways into Europe and Sweden. The resettlement systems currently in place are good, but it is not possible to rely on them alone. There are far too few places. There we need to work both in Sweden and in other countries in Europe to expand the systems. We are seeing work at European level today, although it is far too slow – there is much else to be desired – but the legal roads are, in any case, increasing somewhat. As I said, there is a lot to object to today's system in terms of family reunification, but that is the system we have. We believe that it is right for families to be reunited. If it is possible to reunite in the home country, it should of course be there. But if it is not possible, we mean that family reunification should be possible in Sweden. That is also why we oppose the government's restrictions on those opportunities. As far as medical age tests are concerned, it is not the case that we oppose it per se, but that we should have a realistic picture of what that means. It should be borne in mind that it is not age determinations but an assessment of the age of asylum seekers. One should also be aware that these are not exact sciences. We think that they should be used in the ways they can be used, but one should not have an overconfidence that this is the only solution in the future. I do not know whether Paula Bieler's view is that we are strongly opposed to medical age assessments. That is not the case.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-217	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in SfU16 and for all reservations to be rejected. Millions of people are fleeing war in the world. We should be proud of our country's great humanitarian effort. But when the EU broke into solidarity and joint responsibility, the situation in Sweden became unsustainable. Unfortunately, not only the European Union, but also the United Nations and the world around us, burst into solidarity when it came to dealing with the chaotic refugee situation. Sweden did not start the war, but we have still taken the greatest responsibility. The EU, the UN and the outside world must now show more solidarity and take an active role. During the Iraq war, Södertälje, my hometown, received a much larger number of refugees than Canada and the United States did together. This is not sustainable. I am happy and moved by the humanism and commitment of many people. Unfortunately, however, today we have to make tough but necessary decisions to deal with the situation, which will otherwise be unsustainable. In 2015, a record number of asylum seekers applied to Sweden – almost 163 000. We made every effort to achieve this, and we can be proud of the efforts made by Sweden in the autumn. But the situation finally became untenable. It was then also clear to us that the EU's common asylum policy was not working. The external borders were not maintained and asylum seekers were allowed to choose for themselves the EU country in which they wanted to seek asylum. For Sweden, the refugee situation put the entire asylum system under great pressure. Other key social functions such as health care, school, social care and child and youth care have also been heavily burdened. We are now implementing the change that we announced last autumn – a temporary law that provides temporary residence permits for all persons in need of protection. It also provides limited opportunities for family migration and a stronger supply requirement. We fully understand that temporary residence permits and restrictions on family immigration are not the best thing for each individual asylum seeker. But as long as the Member States of the European Union do not share jointly and severally the responsibility for receiving asylum, but choose to shift the problem to certain countries, such as Sweden, it is not possible for us to have substantially different asylum rules from our neighbours in the European Union. No country can handle too much responsibility alone. Our migration policy should be generous and responsible. However, the Swedish Civil Protection Authority has warned that important societal functions cannot cope with the effort. That is why we must demand that other countries also assume their joint and several responsibilities. At the moment, work is under way within the EU to find a long-term sustainable solution in which the EU countries share jointly and severally the responsibility for asylum seekers seeking to Europe. The measures presented by the government on Tuesday 24 November, which are now being taken, are intended to bring the reception of refugees into order. We need to reduce the number of people who apply for asylum and who are granted a residence permit in Sweden and instead get them to go to other EU countries. We also need to keep our reception order so that everyone who comes here has a good establishment and a good start. To achieve this, Sweden cannot have asylum rules that are much more generous than those in our surrounding EU countries. The regulatory framework therefore needs to be temporarily adapted to the minimum level of EU law and international conventions. Within the EU, the current asylum reception rules need to be reformed so that a more solidarity-based responsibility for the reception of refugees is achieved and all Member States take responsibility. Sweden must have a long-term sustainable and legally secure migration policy that safeguards the right to asylum. The Government has taken a series of measures of a temporary nature to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden and to improve the capacity of asylum reception. The focus is now on everyone, both newly arrived and unemployed, being able to find a job and contribute to the construction of society. The Government proposes that the Temporary Act should apply for three years, from 20 July 2016 until 19 July 2019. The committee notes that the Government intends to assess after two years the need for the law to continue to apply in the last year of its validity. Mr President, I would like to As neither EU law nor international conventions require permanent residence permits to be granted to refugees or alternatively to be protected, the committee considers that temporary residence permits should be introduced temporarily and that the permit period should be adjusted as proposed by the government. The Government's proposal means that children, with some exceptions, will also be granted temporary permits. In order for the proposed provisions to have effect, the committee agrees with the Government's assessment that the law should also apply to applications received before the entry into force of the Act, with the exception of applications from children and families with a registration date of 24 November 2015 or earlier. The committee assumes that the government will assess the consequences of the introduction of temporary residence permits. Mr President, I would like to As regards alternative protection, the committee notes, as well as the government, that the family reunification directive does not apply to that protection group. Since the Swedish rules are to be temporarily adapted to the minimum level of EU law and international conventions, the committee, like the government, considers that residence permits on grounds of affiliation should not be granted if the person to whom the foreigner refers is an alternative need for protection that has been granted a temporary residence permit under the limited duration of the law. However, exceptions are made for an unaccompanied minor if the child's application has been registered with the Finnish Immigration Service on or before 24 November 2015. According to the committee, it is also reasonable for a child who has come to Sweden without his or her family and who has applied for a residence permit before then to be able to reunite with his or her family even if he or she is granted a temporary residence permit as an alternative need for protection under the fixed-term law. Mr President, I would like to These are tough but necessary decisions to be taken in order to cope with the unsustainable situation. I call once again on the EU, the UN and the outside world to show their solidarity in order to help our fellow human beings in need. It's a teamwork just like it is on a football team. Alone you can't handle the match, but if all eleven players contribute in solidarity based on their own capacity and ability, you can manage and win the match. Having said that, I support the SfU proposal16 and reject all motions.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-234	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report 16, Temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. Over 65 million people are fleeing war and oppression in the world. Last year 162 877 of these came to Sweden to apply for asylum. Last year, we did more than any other EU country to help people seeking protection. We did what the rest of Europe should have done. We took responsibility. Every one of the 162,877 people we received last year is a man of flesh and blood. Every single one is a person who carries memories and dreams and has a history and a longing for a future. Every single one is a person whose right to life and freedom is absolute. I am very proud of the great humanitarian effort that we made in this country together last year to offer people a sanctuary. Municipalities, county councils and civil society have made enormous efforts that have been crucial and invaluable. On 24 November last year, the government presented measures aimed at significantly reducing the number of asylum seekers while improving reception and establishment capacity. One of the measures was the time-limited law that is now being proposed for a limited period of no more than three years to adapt the Swedish regulatory framework to the minimum required by EU law and international conventions. The reason for this was that the Swedish reception system has had difficulty handling the fact that so many people have applied for asylum in Sweden for a short time and that the EU countries have not been able to take responsibility. The government has called for more cooperation in the EU. To offer refuge to people forced to flee would not have been a problem for Europe if all EU countries had helped. Unfortunately, reality is different. Although Germany and Sweden have put heavy pressure on other EU countries, many of them have refused to take responsibility. The political best is not always the politically possible. The settlement of migration is undoubtedly the toughest decision our party has had to make. The agreement does not look like it would have done if the Green Party itself had been able to formulate the policy, but is the result of a difficult compromise with consequences for individuals who are detrimental to the establishment and the possibility of being protected. The proposals will make the situation of many refugees more difficult in Sweden, not least as regards the insecurity of temporary residence permits and the difficulties for people to reunite with their family. Consciousness of this means that it is crucial for us that the new temporary laws be as short-lived as possible. The fact that the Green Party agreed to this agreement last autumn is due to the fact that the alternative would have been even worse for people on the run. Several parties in Parliament have called for restrictions on refugee policy far beyond what the international conventions allow, which we in the Green Party can never accept. We do not want the proposals of the two largest opposition parties, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, to close the borders to become a reality. This would mean that asylum seekers coming to Sweden this year would not be able to do so. This would mean that Sweden would abolish the right of asylum as a principle with the risk that country after country would follow. In addition, these parties want to make these temporary amendments to the law permanent. Unfortunately, the politics of many parties in the Swedish parliament has changed, and the debate now presents refugees almost exclusively as threats or problems. This needs to be changed in order for us to be once again an international example of humanity. We in the Green Party are proud of the important reforms for a more open and humane migration policy that we have implemented over the years. Historically, the way we work on migration issues has sometimes meant that we have been involved in carrying out new reforms for a more humane migration policy, and sometimes it has been about preventing a more restrictive migration policy. At any given time, based on what is politically possible, we are negotiating hard for the rights of refugees and other vulnerable groups. Even when circumstances make it more difficult, our parliamentary strategy remains. Unfortunately, at the moment, it is a question of avoiding deteriorations that could otherwise have become a reality. The Green Party has tried at every step of this process to bring about changes in the bill that bring improvements to the individual concerned. I would like to mention some of these. Some relate to the transitional rules which mean that not everyone will be covered by the new fixed-term law. Children and families with children who applied for asylum by 24 November 2015, i.e. the day the agreement was presented, are not covered by the fixed-term law. They will thus continue to be granted permanent residence permits and be able to be reunited with family members without the limitations or requirements of the fixed-term law. An important change compared to the proposal presented on 24 November is that everyone who has applied for asylum before then, i.e. adults without children, should have the right to be reunited with their family members in Sweden. This also applies if the person has received a residence permit as an alternative person for protection. This may seem like details, but the changes are in reality a crucial difference for the tens of thousands of people who will be able to reunite and build their future in Sweden in peace and security. Other changes I would like to mention relate to the provisions of the temporary law. Despite the fact that the general rule will be a temporary residence permit, the government introduces a valve that allows permanent residence permits for children in certain exceptional cases. A valve is also introduced in order for family immigration to be possible in cases where it would be contrary to a Swedish convention obligation to refuse a family member's residence permit. This allows for an individual examination for all applicants for a residence permit on the basis of a connection with someone in Sweden, i.e. also relatives of alternative dependants, relatives of refugees who are not core families and relatives of persons who are unable to meet the supply requirement. A person who receives a job or can make a living through an economic activity is entitled to a permanent residence permit. However, we are introducing an age limit of 25 years for this rule. If you are younger than this and do not have upper secondary education, you are not covered by the possibility of a permanent residence permit through self-sufficiency. Instead, the person will be granted a temporary residence permit that lasts during his or her studies and a period thereafter in order to give the person an honest chance of being able to establish himself or herself in the labour market and thus qualify for a permanent residence permit. We make sure that young people do not drop out of high school in desperation over having to find a job while at the same time strengthening the incentive for young people to educate themselves. The government will return to Parliament with this proposal this autumn. The government parties agree that Sweden will in future return to the more humane migration policy that applied earlier in Sweden. That's why the law is temporary. We're backing down to take a bet. During the three years of the law, the Green Party will work intensively to continuously increase the capacity of the reception system and improve its establishment so as to facilitate and speed up the return to a more humane migration policy. Society must meet the needs of the growing population for housing, jobs and welfare. We need to strengthen, among other things, social services, schools, childcare facilities and parts of health care. Cooperation and measures to enhance reception capacity must permeate policies from local to regional and national level. The government has already decided on a wide range of measures and contributed money both to the municipalities and county councils that have taken the greatest responsibility for reception and to civil society to strengthen their work with asylum seekers and new arrivals. Sweden must be well equipped to be able to receive people both in times when there will be many asylum seekers and in times when it will have asylum seekers. Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party stand by our belief in an open Sweden that welcomes people here. That is why it is our duty to build a society in which systems can cope with our visions. It is a society that is capable of being open and supportive. Let us now intensify that work together! We're all people.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-257	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd start with some numbers. 65 million people are on the run in the world. 162 877 of these came to Sweden last year. The figure 162 877 is the number of asylum seekers. My question is simply whether the Green Party and Maria Ferm believe that everyone who submits an asylum application does so legitimately and belongs to those who are on the run around the world. Or is it possible that some of them give false reasons and should be denied? I wonder whether this is the way the Minister for Migration and the Social Democrats, the other government party, have previously said: that up to 80 000 of these might have to be rejected.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-258	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has an asylum process that is legally secure. This means submitting an application for asylum. Then it is the Finnish Immigration Service and also the courts that decide on the asylum application, based on the legislation that we in the Swedish Parliament decide on. It is a system that works very well and which means that those who are deemed to have protection reasons get a residence permit in Sweden, and those who are not deemed to have protection reasons may leave the country. It is a regime supported by the Green Party, which means that we should not speculate on who is supposed to receive asylum or who is not. It is something that will be decided in due course by the Migration Board and by the courts.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is gratifying to hear that the Green Party also realises that all 162 877 will probably not have their application granted and that it believes that this is the result of a legally secure process. This means that not all of them belong to the refugees mentioned at first. My supplementary question, of course, is: how does the Green Party intend to maintain the existing regulations, and how does it intend to ensure that people who do not have protection grounds according to the regulations that Sweden has should be rejected from the country? And what do you want to do to help those who remain on the run around the world? But above all: how can we ensure that those who have come here and filed false applications do not remain in the country?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-262	Mr President, I would like to As I said, there is a process. It means submitting an application for asylum. It is then assessed whether or not you have the right to have your asylum application granted. In the case that you do not receive your asylum application, you must leave the country. This is something that happens voluntarily in the vast majority of cases. Thus, a majority of those who are refused asylum leave the country voluntarily. In other cases, the police are helping. It is very important that it works as efficiently as possible. This is also something that both this and previous governments have been prioritising for a long time. However, when it comes to difficulties in rejecting people, there is quite a lot that is outside Sweden's control. Much is about people perhaps coming from countries that simply do not recognise them as citizens. Then you can't go back there. It may be that they do not have the correct passport documents. Then it is also not possible to carry out the expulsions. It may also be that it is too uncertain and too dangerous to reject people. This means that they remain in Sweden. It is important that both the Migration Agency and the police work with return work, mainly on a voluntary basis, but in cases where coercion is also needed. At the same time, it is important to realize that we live in a very dangerous and unsafe world. Many people may not be able to return because of things outside Sweden's control. Then perhaps we should have a little more focus on ensuring that we can give people who are allowed to stay in the country a good establishment and an opportunity to enter society and the labour market. There, unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats' proposal shines with their absence.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-265	Mr President, I would like to Maria Ferm talked a lot in her speech about the coincidence of the law and how important it is that this is only a short parenthesis in Sweden's history. I would like to ask a question about that, because there are quite a few of us who fear that this will not happen at all. There are several parties here who think that this should be permanent. We've never seen a law that's been really temporary. When the government introduced ID and border controls, they set a withdrawal period of two weeks and strongly argued that it was important for legal certainty. It was important that the powers of the government should not be too extensive. When it came down to it, it was suddenly not so important at all. Of course, it makes you very worried that what is said here will just be waved away in exactly the same way. I wonder what Maria Ferm has to say about that fear.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-268	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Raise Larsen, for the question! I think it is a very important issue, because this is a very special piece of legislation that is temporary and far-reaching. There are certainly parties in this House who want to go further or who want to make this legislation permanent, and then it is important that we other parties that do not want to see that development also work to make it as temporary as possible. The actual construction of the legislation means that it will automatically be repealed after three years. In order for something to be extended, an active parliamentary decision is required. This also means that we have a control post after two years to review whether there is still a need for legislation. We from the Green Party have been clear that we will work as hard as we can to ensure that Sweden can return to a situation where we can once again pursue a policy that is more far-reaching in terms of humanity than the international conventions require of us. Then, of course, it is also a matter of working towards social support in order to return as quickly as possible to a more humane policy. It is both about how we debate these issues in society and about the need to show that we can cope with this situation. We can strengthen the reception capacity and improve the establishment. We've done it before, and we'll be able to do it again. I also believe that this is very crucial in order to be able to return as quickly as possible to a more humane migration policy.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-272	Mr President, I would like to I really wish it was about Sweden's reception capacity. But it is quite clear in the political debate that it does not actually do so. I became politically active myself because I had lived in a Denmark where the right hand, together with the racists, took turns pulling and constantly pushing the limits of what one could do. What we saw was a Social Democracy that surrendered, away from the dream and the fight for justice that we had waged together. So I became politically active: I never wanted to see it happen again in a country where I live. I know that Maria Ferm has a strong anti-racist commitment for which I have great respect, but the question is where the limit is, when we start to join this draft battle. Right now SD triumphs content, but the next move is to raise the bar a little bit more. Should we make new deals where we follow them? Are we really going to continue this escalation? Where's your line, Maria Ferm? When will you press the "no" button?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-276	Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that it is the whole government's ambition to return to a more humane migration law. This is a decision that wasn't easy for any of us. The situation last autumn included the fact that we saw major problems in the reception systems, problems that were perhaps not entirely new but rather became more acute when a lot of people came for a long time. It was also about the situation in the EU, where very few EU countries took the responsibility they should have taken. Therefore, we saw a need to implement this change for a limited period of time. It is not a question of moving in one direction and taking steps in that direction, but rather of implementing, for a limited period of time, changes that allow us to focus more on strengthening reception capacity and improving establishment. The clear objective is to return to a more humane migration policy. Those are the steps we need to take. That is the voice that Sweden needs to be in the EU. This is not a debate that has settled in any way, but it is extremely important that Sweden continues to be a driving force for more EU countries to take responsibility for safeguarding the right to asylum. This is also what Sweden brings forward in such discussions. Sweden is also the country that is pushing for legal ways for people on the run. That is something we need to continue to fight for in the debate, because it is also part of the kind of society that comes after this. We need to step in a more humane direction.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-281	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the committee for its benevolent treatment of the proposal. Mr President, I would like to Last year, Sweden received more than 160 000 asylum seekers. Most of them were refugees from the wars and conflicts in the Middle East, especially from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. But many also came from African countries, such as the collapsed state of Somalia and Eritrea, one of the world's hardest military dictatorships. The year before, 2014, Sweden received over 80 000 asylum seekers. This means, as many have pointed out earlier in the day, that in two years our country has received almost a quarter of a million asylum seekers. Sweden has taken greater responsibility for the international refugee crisis than any other EU country has done – by far the greatest responsibility. But not only that. This is also the greatest reception of refugees in our modern history. We have never before protected so many people fleeing war, oppression and conflict. If we only look at the Syrians, since the outbreak of the war in 2011, Sweden has provided shelter for over 130 000 men, women and children, people who otherwise could well have perished in shells and bombs. This, Mr President, is Sweden's greatest humanitarian effort ever, and leading that effort is one of the most important tasks of our generation. We saw last autumn how the number of asylum seekers increased very strongly in quite a short time. In four months – September, October, November and December – there were 114 000 people, 26 000 of whom were unaccompanied minors. At most, over 10,000 people arrived a week. It presented the reception system with an enormous task. In retrospect, I can see that Sweden did the job. I think it was a night in Malmö when a group had to sleep outdoors one night, but we managed with a few exceptions to give shelter and food for the day for over 100,000 people in four months. Many Swedes did heroic work during this time. It was the Migration Agency, of course, but also very many, if not all, of the country's municipalities. I visited many of them myself – Trelleborg, of course, who took a very big responsibility because many came directly from Germany. This also applied to Malmö but also to lots of municipalities that opened up their seats in order to be able to do this. The municipalities, the Migration Board but also a huge number of volunteers such as the Red Cross, Save the Children, Refugees Welcome, churches, mosques and many more, not least private individuals, stood up. Without all this voluntary work on the part of civil society, we would never have been able to fulfil this task. But our systems were also pushed to the extreme. It was sometimes dramatic. In a short time we had to open up gymnasiums and old business and office premises. We also had to use municipal evacuation sites to put people somewhere. You remember the pictures from Malmömässan, which we opened and which quickly filled. Early on, the Migration Agency had to fill buses in Malmö and Trelleborg and drive the asylum seekers north of Sweden without knowing where they were going. They had at least 15 hours to find accommodation so that they could have a roof over their heads for the night. It was a huge test of the Swedish reception system, but we managed it. I feel a fundamentally tremendous pride in this. We live in a fantastic country with amazing people. We knew that. But now we know that Sweden is in fact also able to accommodate 100,000 people in four months. We didn't know that before. In autumn 2015, Sweden and the Swedish people appeared in many ways from their best side. But it was also clear that although Sweden passed the four months, even Sweden does not pass such a task in the long run, week after week, month after month – not even we. When, in the midst of the crisis, the government brought together the trade unions representing employees at school, social services and the police, the message was clear: the members work as much as they can, and they try to do as much as they can, but they can't do this anymore. Social services were alerted about displacement effects, i.e. that they were no longer able to cope with their task of, for example, caring for children who are in harm's way. I was in October – November seriously concerned that 15 000 – 20 000 asylum seekers would sleep on our streets on New Year's night, in the middle of a Swedish winter. That could well have been the case if we had not acted. Then we faced an ethical dilemma. I think most of us want to do everything we can to help our fellow humans when they're on the run. We want to help as many people as possible. But Sweden is a small country with 10 million inhabitants. We can help a great many, and Sweden has done more than any other EU country has done and more than ever in its history. But even we can't help everyone – at least not week after week and month after month with the current inflow. Even such a fantastic country as Sweden has a limit to what can be done. The government stated in the autumn that it might be over 160 000 people in 2015. We said that Sweden can handle them, but at the same time we had to conclude that if there were to continue to be 7 000 – 8 000, perhaps 10 000, people a week, this would be completely impossible for Sweden. The pressure on school, health and social services would simply be too great. We would not have a chance to build enough housing in the coming years to meet that challenge. Nor should you underestimate the political effects of what Sweden went through during the autumn. I think many people experienced the situation in 2015 as a situation where the authorities were losing control. It's a dangerous situation. When citizens feel that the authorities are no longer in control, that there is general chaos, it can be exploited by authoritarian, anti-democratic and, not least, right-wing radical forces. We've seen that a lot throughout history. Chaos and disorder are the best friends of the right-wing forces. I heard in the previous line that Christina Höj Larsen was concerned about racism and xenophobia. Of course, I share that concern. But what we also need to think about is not to lead Sweden into such a situation again as chaos and disorder spread again. If there is anything these forces can exploit and use, it is exactly that. The government had to act to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. At European level, since the turn of the government, we had worked very intensively to find a European solution that would distribute the reception of refugees more fairly in Europe. We also achieved some successes, but at the same time it was clear in autumn 2015 that it would not solve our problems, at least not in the short term. The government must therefore find other ways to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. We must put such a policy on a broad parliamentary basis. We therefore invited the bourgeois parties and the Left Party to negotiations on politics. We had initiated cross-border cooperation on migration issues as early as autumn 2014, i.e. immediately after government entry. But then the interest of the bourgeois would not have been very great. In autumn 2015, the situation was different. After a week of negotiations, we succeeded in concluding an agreement with the bourgeois. The Left Party dropped out in the final stages of the negotiations. We succeeded in entering into an important cleansing with the Alliance in 21 points, which we are now working on and where we are ticking off point after point. Among other things, we agreed on a resource supplement to Lande ts municipalities and county councils of SEK 10 billion and on a law that all municipalities would be obliged to receive new arrivals. No municipality could refuse to accept new arrivals any longer. At that time, the first step was also taken towards temporary residence permits and stricter supply requirements. We never considered turning to the Swedish Democrats. This is because the Swedish Democrats simply have a different view of people, a different view of people. Our basic view is that people of different backgrounds, ethnicity, religion, culture and language can live together in the same country, can understand each other and can learn from each other. The basic view of the Swedish democrats is based on the opposite. One is an e against a multicultural society. It also says that a society should consist of only one culture, one ethnicity – a kind of apartheid thought. In one country there should only live people with the same ethnicity and the same religion. In a country like Sweden, it should only be allowed to live people who look like me, which is a frightening thought in more ways than one. But you see what I mean. The Swedish Democrats look down on people of different ethnic backgrounds and hate immigrants. Most of all, they hate Muslims, whom they never miss the opportunity to incite, to slander and to spread prejudice about. In autumn 2015, as I said, Sweden appeared in many ways from its best side. But the Swedish Democrats turned out from their worst. There were, for example, problems with constructed fires against asylum homes. There were 16 such fires in Sweden last year. In this situation, the local departments of the Swedish Democrats posted the addresses of asylum homes online. Why? Because the arsonists would really find their way there? In the midst of the crisis, it was a Swedish democrat who said that a machine gun should be put up on the Öresund Bridge against the asylum seekers. There were two examples. The Swedish Democrats have a tail of violent extremism that is constantly winding behind them. That is why it is unthinkable to cooperate with them. Now the government concluded a deal with the bourgeois parties on 23 October 2015. Pretty soon it became clear that that deal would not be enough. The number of asylum seekers continued to rise to up to 10 000 a week. On 12 November we introduced border controls. However, we stated at the time that that would not be enough either. In any case, controls would only work in the short term. The government therefore prepared two new proposals. The first was ID controls on relations from Denmark. In this way, more asylum seekers would stay in other EU countries and apply for asylum there instead of in Sweden. The second proposal is the proposal we are dealing with today, namely that Sweden should spend three years at the EU minimum level in relation to asylum law. This means that Sweden lives up to EU law and to all international regulations, but not more than that. We're going to the minimum level. The background was just the fact I've described. Sweden has received a quarter of a million asylum seekers in two years, and Sweden has ended up in an acute crisis. If Sweden were to remain in the EU's most generous asylum legislation, for example, the only country in the EU to grant permanent residence permits or be the country that has the most generous rules for family immigration, the risk is obvious that Sweden would eventually end up in exactly the same situation again with 8 000 – 10 000 asylum seekers a week. Then it will be in a situation when Sweden already has 130 000 in the systems that are waiting to be told. We can't end up there again. Again, we stand here with the ethical dilemma. What do we do when other countries do not assume their responsibilities and when other countries turn down their legislation? Can we then stand by our legislation when, at the same time, we know that we cannot manage the same inflow again? The rhetoric on these issues is often black and white. That clarity is often needed. But we also know that the reality, as someone said earlier, is full of grey scales and that we politicians are often faced with target conflicts. We rarely have to choose between two good things. Often we are forced to choose the least bad because the alternative is worse. These aren't easy decisions for anyone. This is the most difficult legislative process I have experienced in my almost 20 years of government policy. But it is a necessary decision to prevent so that Sweden does not end up in the same situation as we experienced in autumn 2015. So far in the debate there has been a lot about permanent residence permits and family immigration. I am basically a friend of permanent residence permits, but we have a real situation to deal with. Can we, as the only country in the EU, remain on permanent residence permits when we have already received a quarter of a million asylum seekers in two years? I see it as impossible. Last year, 1.3 million asylum seekers came to the EU. Let us say that there will be 1 million next year and we are the only country left with permanent residence permits. What do you think happens then? I do not think the whole million will come to Sweden, but it is enough that 200 000 will come to Sweden. Then our systems will collapse completely. There is such a force in this development. In the same way, it is with the immigration of relatives. It would be very difficult to abide by Europe's most generous rules. But that does not mean, as some claim, that family immigration is now stopped. On the contrary, I would think that in the coming years we will receive more women and children from refugee camps than we have ever done. So we will carry out more family reunifications than ever. This is because we have exempted everyone who came before 24 November 2015, when we announced the law, from the new rules. By 24 November 2015, 150 000 asylum seekers had arrived. All of these will go on the old rules on family reunification. In addition, those who receive refugee status will have the possibility of family reunification even if they have arrived after 24 November, and all those who are not considered refugees but who are allowed to stay as an alternative need for protection will have their applications for family immigration individually tested in relation to the international conventions. It was therefore wrong, what Christina Höja Larsen said earlier in the debate that there would be no individual examination for the alternative persons in need of protection. There will be such an individual examination. Because it's in the bill. Everyone will have their connection case examined individually. All in all, we will carry out more family reunifications in the coming years than we have ever seen before. We announced, as I said, the ID checks and the temporary law of 24 November last year. Then we went to the bourgeois parties to seek support for those measures. We knew how great the split was and is between the bourgeois parties. We had no idea we'd be able to make a new big deal. Therefore, we were content to examine what support there would be in the Riksdag for our proposals. As far as the ID checks are concerned, the Center declared, as expected, that it was against, just as it had been against almost all restrictive measures throughout the autumn. However, the Moderates and Liberals have given the go-ahead to ID checks both before and after the Council's opinion. So we put forward the bill. A few days passed, and they got cold feet. In the vote just before Christmas, they abstained from voting in Parliament. In retrospect, we have understood what happened. A number of heavy moderates went out into the media and called the ID controls devastating. So it is not enough that the Moderates have not been able to hold the Alliance or migration policy together for a year and a half. They could not even hold their own parliamentary group together on the identity checks, which led to their abstaining. Now we got the ID checks through anyway, and that has proved to be very important. In January to April 2016, 240 000 asylum seekers were registered in Germany. Without ID controls, a large number of them could well have moved on to Sweden. This would have led to a very difficult situation for us. Thanks to the actions of the Government and the Riksdag, we avoided that. But let us remember when it is now spoken in the debate that when it really was necessary to make difficult decisions, then the Alliance collapsed. You couldn't take responsibility. No bourgeois party was able to back up the ID controls – nor did the Moderates, so when Johan Forssell said in the debate that we should have listened to the Moderates earlier, I wondered: What should we have listened to – the sound when you abstained on the ID controls at Christmas? Is that the sound we should have listened to? It is the same with the Christian Democrats. You spoke of slowness. You, too, abstained on the ID checks. Today, the picture is equally divided. This is evident from the opposition in this debate. The Center and the Moderates are on completely different planets. As far as the Liberals are concerned, you should know that in January we contacted them to negotiate the legislation we are now talking about. Liberals said no. They didn't even want to negotiate on this. Pass this cup away from us. This may also be the case in politics. I note that there is not a single common bourgeois reservation in today's report. You have not managed to agree on a single point in migration policy. This means that today there is no bourgeois alternative to the policy pursued, and if you do not have a common migration policy, you do not have a government alternative. You simply could not rule Sweden today. Mr President, I would like to The number of people coming to Sweden has fallen sharply as a result of the measures we have taken, but we have not closed the border. There are still 400 to 500 asylum seekers a week to Sweden. It is a level that we can handle, despite the fact that it is still a very strained situation when it comes to housing. At most we had 180 000 people in the asylum system, of which 100 000 in our accommodations. Now the number is falling because the Migration Agency is making more and more decisions. They make 7 000 – 8 000 decisions a month and will probably come up with over 100 000 decisions during the year. This means that we are now down to 165 000 in the system, of which about 90 000 in the housing. Emergency sites in gymnasiums, for example, have been decommissioned. People no longer have to live so crowded. Processing times are still increasing, but just a few months ago we thought the average would peak in 15 months. Now we believe that the average time will peak in 12 months and then turn downwards. In the case of those who are refused their asylum application, more and more people leave Sweden. The number leaving Sweden has doubled in one year and now stands at around 2 000 per month. There are more than 60 people a day. It is an important principle that we must uphold: anyone who has his asylum application granted may stay, but anyone who is refused must leave the country. On the other hand, when it comes to those who are allowed to stay, i.e. about half of the asylum seekers, the municipalities are receiving more and more – 14,000 municipal placements so far this year. The new instruction law means that no municipality can say no, which both facilitates investments and leads to a fairer distribution. This means that we are now entering a new phase. After the reception phase and the process phase, we are now entering the start-up phase. With family immigration and family reunification, which will therefore be more extensive than ever before, I think we can expect to have to integrate a few hundred thousand people into our country in the coming years. We have never before faced such a task. I am absolutely convinced that we can do it. Sweden has two large assets that not all other countries have. One is that we have a fundamentally strong welfare state with organisation, with economic muscles and with order and order as few other countries. The second is that we have strong peoples' movements, a civil society that is already making fantastic efforts to give everyone who has come to Sweden a good reception. There are Save the Children, the Red Cross and the churches that I mentioned earlier, but there are also the study associations, ABF and Adult School, which only in the past autumn started to educate 75 000 people in Swedish and social studies. This with education and Swedish from the first day, already during the asylum period, we will continue to expand together with other efforts to organise employment, work and internships during the asylum period. The labour market is, of course, crucial. Here we have the help of the very strong development right now. Unemployment is falling rapidly and is now for the first time in over seven years below 7%. Sweden now has the highest employment rate in the EU. The number of job vacancies is more than ever. Youth unemployment is falling, long-term unemployment is falling and the group where employment is growing fastest, do you know which group it is? They're foreign-born women. There, employment is growing fastest today. The bourgeois predictions of what would happen in the labour market with a red-green government have thus been completely disappointed. On the contrary, it is better than for a very long time, and it is labour shortages rather than unemployment that are a problem in many sectors. That is why we are investing heavily in education so that the unemployed and newcomers can take the jobs that are emerging. We are making a major investment in adult education, a new boost in knowledge, and together with the social partners we have launched the so-called fast track, where newcomers can get a tailor-made education so that they can continue with the jobs they had in their home country. For example, if you have been a math teacher in Syria, you should be able to get a supplementary education so that you can quickly get a job as a math teacher in Sweden. At the same time, it is a profession where we have a shortage. There are now fast tracks for chefs, truck drivers, teachers, doctors, nurses, painters, butchers and construction engineers, and many more are added. The latest one, I think, is the fast track for socionomists. We should not underestimate the difficulties, but I think it will be excellent for the vast majority of those who have now come to Sweden. I think so, too, for the unaccompanied children. The people I've met have had fantastic dreams of what they want to be and also a strong drive to succeed. If they just get the right conditions, it'll be fine. Then these people will quickly become part of Sweden, a great asset in a country that also has an ageing population and where we need more people of working age. But it also requires that we face another major challenge, namely getting up to housing. There we are, too, well on our way. In one year, residential building has grown by nearly 50 per cent, and this year we will start building nearly 60 000 dwellings. That is a good start, but we must, of course, go further. We will have to build very much in the coming years: schools, residential areas, roads and other infrastructure. Of course it's a big challenge, but it's also fantastic fun. That is why we are politicians, at least many of us. It is in order to have the opportunity to develop society, to build and give people the opportunity to live and develop together with others. That is, as it were, the essence of politics. I myself have been a municipal politician and have been on a construction board. Is there anything more fun for a municipal councillor than opening a new school, getting to cut bands and then seeing a lot of happy and inquisitive children stream in to start learning things? Is there anything more fun for a municipal politician than when the council adopts a new in-depth master plan? Yes, there may be, but you know what I mean. There is something hugely stimulating and almost pleasurable in planning a new residential area, drawing roads, planning public transport and developing and building the community. I'm basically an optimist. Of course we can do this. If we do the right things, Sweden will be an even stronger country than before the major refugee crisis in autumn 2015.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-346	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Migration, for a speech that I think covered all policy areas! I thought that we should now be very specific and talk about migration policy. If I had received a crown every time the immigration minister tells me about the Moderates and the ID controls, it would have been a considerable amount of money by now. But it was actually that the Moderates presented their own proposal, Morgan Johansson. And listen and be amazed, we voted for it too! What would have been surprising if the Moderates had presented their own better proposal and then voted for the government? I hope that we can now add this to the record. I have two specific questions for Morgan Johansson. The first is that the law should apply for three years but with a built-in control post after two years, as the Environmental Party has explained here. On the Socialist side, it has often been presented as if it were more about reviewing the details of the legislation. For the Green Party and, not least, for Morgan Johansson's government colleague Gustav Fridolin, it has instead been a question of abolishing the core of the new legislation, such as temporary residence permits, as soon as possible. Does Morgan Johansson share the Green Party's view that it may be necessary to tear up all or part of this law prematurely before the three years have passed? Let us also say something about the future. I hope this law will last for three years. It would be irresponsible not to learn from the mistakes that have been made and which have put Sweden in a difficult situation. Then the question is, What happens after the law expires? We have informed the Moderates today that it is not appropriate for us to return to the previously callless migration policy. What is Morgan Johansson's message to the House today? What is his view of whether or not it might be appropriate to return to the previous policy?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-350	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that it is fascinating to hear Johan Forssell call his own previous policy undemanded. It wasn't that bad, was it? But there I understand that you have a completely different rhetoric. And yet, as I said, you couldn't take it. I have here the article from heavy Moderates- Tobias Billström and Hans Wallmark- who call the ID controls devastating. That was the background to your abstention. You cannot even hold your own parliamentary group together when it came to the ID controls – let alone the bourgeois group. This is a question I would like to ask Johan Forssell. Since you have not even managed to hold your own party group together and not the Alliance either, if you were to form a government, what policy would a bourgeois government then conduct? Would it be the policy of the Centers, which in practice is some kind of free immigration line with very few restrictions, or would it be the total stop of the Moderates? What policy would an alliance government pursue? I would like an answer to that question. Then I would also like to correct one thing in Johan Forssell's speech. He said Norway had introduced a refugee break. No, Norway has no refugee break. Asylum seekers are still being accepted. They have a law that says that in a crisis situation people could be rejected directly to Sweden, but because they do not have such a crisis situation they still accept refugees. You don't do direct rejections, and you don't have a refugee break. Why, then, is it possible in Norway to have such a law? Because Norway is not in the EU. But Sweden is a member of the European Union, and we are bound by the Asylum Procedure Directive. I suppose the Moderates still want to remain in the EU. You haven't been hit by the English flu, have you? Then there is the deal. We stand by to make an assessment in two years' time, and then we move on from that. That's the deal.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-355	Mr President, I would like to I think Morgan Johansson's speech was symptomatic of how the government responds to questions. You use a minute and 50 seconds to talk about the Alliance. Then there will be six seven seconds at the end where you have a little liability to the question itself, but you can hardly come up with an answer. One issue was not raised at all by the Minister for Migration. I understand Morgan Johansson is curious about the Moderates and the Alliance. Seems like a lot of people are. We have said that we will meet the voters in the 2018 election movement with common policies in this area too. This has been a clear message from the Alliance's party leader and secretary. But it is now, in fact, the Social Democrats and the Green Party that are in government, and it is you who must take responsibility. You must take responsibility for the situation we have today. You must take responsibility for the slowness of, for example, temporary residence permits, the introduction of safe countries, the dependency requirements for family migration and medical age assessments of unaccompanied young people. There, we Moderates have consistently pushed the government ahead of us. Unfortunately, however, the government has refused to listen to critical voices, and that is why we have this legislation at Parliament's table today. Now the pendulum must hit far the other way, because eventually the reality caught up with the government and the Minister for Migration. I am very sorry that the Minister for Migration did not listen to other voices earlier. Now we are going to adopt this legislation. I hope it will last for three years. But I think that we have a responsibility to clear up for the voters what we are looking at after it. I would like to repeat my question: does Morgan Johansson think that it might be appropriate to return to the migration policy that applied earlier when the law expires?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-359	Mr President, I would like to The decision is that we will make an evaluation after two years and that the law will apply for three years. That is the very message. What are we going to do in these years? I think we need to do two things. One is to expand the reception capacity in Sweden. Then I'm talking about the regular residents. We inherited a system from the old government with only 25,000 places in regular living – the rest was bought by Bert Karlsson and others. Then, as we entered the great crisis, we had to deal with even more. So what we need to do now is strengthen the basic structure so that we can actually manage the reception in a better way. The second thing we have to do is get a European system in place. On the table of EU ministers is now a proposal from the European Commission for an equal distribution – a better distribution of refugees in crisis situations. I think that would be very good, because that would mean that no EU country can say no to receiving. It also means that we are building on the very principle of solidarity in the European Union. It is no coincidence that the proposal is on the table of ministers. This is because Sweden, Germany and a number of other EU countries have pushed extremely hard to bring this about. As I said in my speech, we have achieved some successes at European level, but there is nothing that can resolve the situation in the short term. In these three years, however, I believe that we will have the opportunity to clear up the European situation. Johan Forssell never answered my question about what policy a possible alliance government will pursue in this area. Is it in practice the Center's totally free immigration that should apply, or is it the Moderate total stop? In fact, I think the voters are interested in hearing about it.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-363	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by saying that none of my fellow Members have ever complained that I do not look like Morgan Johansson. The few times anyone has referred to my background and said that I should leave Sweden to return to a country I have never lived in, it has preferably been people under the red flag, including Social Democratic. However, I am not going to keep to the low level, but I am going to ask questions about what we are discussing today, namely the legislative changes. Just like Johan Forssell, who just asked questions, I am very confused about this that you have a very temporary law. This applies not least in view of the fact that Morgan Johansson in the speaker's chair here today, but also earlier at various press conferences and other occasions, has shown that it has finally been realised after all obvious – that the regulations and laws we have in Sweden affect the number of people who come here. It is also clear that we cannot have all the capacity, but we need certain limitations. I have received some answers here. They want to evaluate in two years' time. Let it go, but if you do not think that, as we are proposing, you should have a permanent law today and then possibly, after an evaluation, produce changes – which I find difficult to see, because you still think that it should stop by itself in three years' time – what is being announced to do in addition to expanding our capacity in Sweden and continuing to hope for an EU system that no other EU country seems to want to support? Does it mean that we should have hundreds of thousands of people living here permanently in the future? Or is it meant to solve the world's problems in some other way? Why can't you have the law permanently from the start and then in an evaluation possibly, if the world changes, change the law?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-367	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous line shift, the aim is for us to use these three years to both expand capacity and do everything we can to bring about a system at European level that allows all EU countries to share responsibility. The Swedish Democrats are against that. You do not want a system in which all EU countries share responsibility, Paula Bieler. You're against it. I would like to ask you how you intend to resolve the European question if you do not have a system that allows all EU countries to take responsibility, Paula Bieler. Why are you so desperate about it? Is it because you are so close to the attitude of Hungary, Poland and other EU countries in this that you do not want them to have to accept more? Is that simply what this is all about? Why are you opposed to a solidarity-based distribution of refugees at European level? We come from totally different values. It's just like that. I stand for a policy in which we say that people can live together even if they have different cultures or different ethnicities. I know Swedish democrats who never miss an opportunity to incite Muslims or to incite those who have a different ethnicity – or, as I mentioned in my speech, to lay out addresses for asylum homes with the obvious aim of making it easier for those who really want to seek them out. Do you distance yourself from this kind of behavior, Paula Bieler? What are you doing about it? What are you doing to clean up that kind of behavior? However, we do not escape the following fact: when you speak in the Swedish Democrats about your opposition to a multicultural society, in practice, it means that you believe that people with a certain skin colour or a certain religion should be allowed to live in Sweden, while other people should go to other places. It's basically an apartheid thought.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-371	Mr President, I would like to I had hoped that we would lie down on a different level. Of course, I reject all forms of criminal activity. My party has for a long time been talking in sharp terms about more stringent penalties. I would also like to point out that what I myself do most politically to reduce this kind of conflict is to pursue a policy that actually treats those who live in this country equally and does not divide our citizens based on whether they have come here recently or whether they have lived here for a long time. I mentioned that I listened to the answer to the question of what you want to do to expand capacity, but I did not get an answer to the question of whether you think we should return to as large a reception as we had. Is it at that level we should be in Sweden? As far as European systems are concerned, we are opposed to it for the simple reason I have highlighted in several previous speeches, namely that we do not provide assistance by encouraging people to illegally cross the Mediterranean or to different countries. Instead, we provide help by actually developing good reception systems, especially in places as close as possible, strengthening resettlement systems and working towards a sustainable policy as a whole. We do not believe that it should be limited to the EU when it comes to who helps, but we want to work globally and in general. That is why we support, above all, through the UNHCR, which is much larger and involves far more countries than just EU countries. It is also well known for a long time that we are against the supranational intervention of the EU in national policies. We believe that it divides more than trying to put everything at European level. I have one more question, and it concerns the obvious fact that the regulations we have affect who is coming here. That has been announced by the government. At the same time, the regulatory framework first announced has actually been relaxed. Among other things, temporary residence permits have been granted for at least 13 months – in order for people to have access to our benefit systems. In what way is it not to continue a policy of being extra generous and continuing to attract more people than we can handle?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-376	Mr President, I would like to I am not sure that I understood the answer when it comes to the question of the European system. If Paula Bieler is walking around thinking that migration or refugee flows can be stopped only by helping people in their countries of origin, I must say that this is not working. We will do a lot to help them in their home countries, but there will always be migration. As long as there are wars in the world, there will always be flows of refugees from those wars. Those people you can't help in place while the bombs fall. That's impossible. Nor can it be asked that only the neighbouring countries, such as Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, take full responsibility. This means that you will always have a flow of refugees coming to Europe. What Paula Bieler really says about how this should be handled I do not understand, but probably it is that one should somehow just put a stop and say: We throw you back, into the war. I say: these people must be able to seek asylum in Europe, and they must be distributed to EU countries where there is the capacity to receive them. No EU country should be able to escape, nor should the EU countries where parties related to the Swedish Democrats rule. Indeed, those countries must also be prepared to shoulder their responsibilities. We'll build you out from 12 months to 13 months. We are doing this so that people can work together for these benefits. That's what our health insurance and social security systems look like – you work together to your benefits. If you manage to get a job during that time you should have an opportunity to get into the systems. Then I think we need to have a little more discussion about the values of the Swedish Democrats. You are opposed in virtually all debates to what you call a multicultural society. If so, it means that you are against people with different cultures and ethnicities being able to live together. We differ very strongly there.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-381	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say something about the so-called valve when it comes to examining children's possibility of family reunification. If it was really as clear as Morgan Johansson here sounds suggestive, you probably need to think a little bit, because some of the absolutely sharpest experts, brains and lawyers don't see it that way at all. Then I can only recommend that it be clarified in a better way. That's not what it looks like. By saying that the group or the need for protection should not be given the opportunity for family reunification and then create a small valve, you do not get the individual test. Morgan Johansson also says that this has been a very difficult and painful team to present. I wonder if that is why an impact assessment has been avoided. Are the consequences too painful or too difficult to have? Anyway, they're not there. What I really want to talk about is the absolute insight that we still need to share as part of the labour movement, namely that your insecurity in the labour market is also my insecurity. This is where the rasi smen comes in. That is what I meant in my speech. The question is: how can a social democratic government put forward a proposal that gives the employer power over the person's ability to stay or not?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-385	Mr President, I would like to Christina Höj Larsen seems to underestimate the risks that exist and the problems we experienced last autumn. There were 26,000 unaccompanied children in four months. This corresponds to 1 000 school classes that arrived in Sweden within four months. What would we have done if there had been 26 000 in January, February, March and April? At the peak, a total of 10,000 a week came. That's $40,000 a month. What would have happened if only this spring we had received 40 000 in January, 40 000 in February, 40 000 in March and 40 000 in April? What, then, would have been the case? How could we have done this? The Left Party really has no answers at all. You were against border controls. You were against the ID controls. You dropped off the negotiations last autumn to bring about a broad, cross-block agreement. You are against Turkey – the same thing there – and you are also against the new law. I believe that if we had followed the recommendations of the Left Party, we would have experienced an extremely difficult spring. These difficulties had been most noticeable in welfare workers' occupations, for example for social secretaries and employees in health care and school. I think most people really realize that you can't have such a big reception over that long period of time. That is why we need to limit it. As far as the labour market is concerned, Christina Höj Larsen knows that this is the result of our deal with the bourgeois. We have been very clear that there must be good safety margins in the labour market. Therefore, the text explicitly states that there should be collective agreements on the employment of the asylum seeker in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. Then we must also maintain this.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-389	Mr President, I would like to After all, the government has not complied with other parts of that agreement. For me, it is incomprehensible why we should like to include bourgeois labour market policy in measures relating to refugee policy. But the government has obviously done so because they think it is important that workers should be put against workers. This is where racism comes in! If one of us is insecure and the other is not, depending on origin, it will have consequences for how people are treated in Sweden and how people are treated. We have already identified the consequences of this. We have seen this in connection with labour migration. We see people living in slavery in Sweden. That is completely unreasonable, and the government has taken good and important steps away from it. But, as a social democrat, creating a new insecure group in the labour market is completely incomprehensible to me. And there was no obligation, because you don't seem to have lived up to any of the other things in the deal. For me it is very difficult to understand. And, no, we can never be in favour of a Turkey agreement that means that kids are being pushed across the border. You shouldn't be either.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-392	Mr President, I would like to Here, in lightning, we got the Left Party's view of agreements, that you don't have to bother to keep them. We have a different attitude. Agreements with bourgeois parties must also be kept. That is our basic philosophy. The fact that we have been able to rule the country for as long as we have been able to do is because we have it in our spinal cord. Of course, this must not lead to a situation in the labour market. That is why it is so important that it is very clear in the legislative text itself that a condition for obtaining a permanent residence permit is that one, insurance cover and other conditions of employment are no worse than the conditions resulting from Swedish collective agreements or practices in the profession or industry. Then the question is how to maintain this, and I think we need to do much more here. That is why we have set up an investigation to review, among other things, the situation of labour immigration in order to increase sanctions, but also the control of employers who exploit the situation. I think that will be even more important to do in the future. But to leave a deal that we have reached is not for us; we do not. Again to the basic question: what would have happened if we had not introduced border controls, if we had not introduced ID checks, if we had not got the Turkey agreement and if we had not worked out the new law? What had happened during the spring? We could well have had a situation where 8 000 – 10 000 people had arrived a week and 1 000 school classes in four months. Where's the line for the Left Party? When will the Left Party begin to realise that there is actually a limit to reception as well? It was that insight that we had and have, and that is why we act as we do. But the Left Party is clearly a still not interested in it.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-397	Mr President, I would like to There is a debate in our right liberal country about whether a Swedish Member of Parliament should ever vote differently than by majority decision in his parliamentary group – a rather unimaginable debate with regard to the constitution that we have. I fully understand that, in order to be able to rule Sweden, it is necessary as a Member of Parliament to support his government and that it should do a great deal to not do so. In opposition, in broad majority and in moral-ethical matters, it should be somewhat easier to follow one's convictions on important issues. In the parliamentary debate on identity requirements in December last year, I abstained from voting. I found it untenable that Sweden should continue to receive 10 000 asylum seekers a week and 40% of all unaccompanied minors who came to the EU. I made an explanation of vote in a speech in this House. The Government's proposals regarding, among other things, the Migration Agreement in November will now be considered. The proposals represent a 180-degree turn to everything that has been said in the past for many years and a tightening of the rules to the lowest level in the EU. The Left Party and the Center Party want to reject the bill, that is, want the same most generous asylum rules in the EU that Sweden has today to continue to apply. The parties also want the identification requirements to be removed. I would like to state clearly that the Center Party's line has a solid foundation in the general assembly, party board and parliamentary group. It's, like, just me and the East Götta Center that's digressing. Unfortunately, I cannot support the line taken by my party because I consider it unrealistic. Should the EU's attempt to stop asylum seekers at EU borders, which I regard as far more serious than the Öresund ID requirements, collapse, Sweden could again be in the unsustainable situation of last autumn. Unfortunately, there are limits to how much of the world's people on the run that Sweden, with 2% of the EU's population, can receive. Like the government and three alliance parties, I believe that Sweden's resources are already very hard-pressed to cope with reception, housing, integration and getting to work. Had I been listened to, as has been said for three four years, and adapted Sweden's asylum rules in the EU direction in the past, this turnaround might not have been necessary. But now we're where we are. Many want the government's proposal to be rejected: the Swedish Church, Save the Children, the Red Cross and the Bar Association – as well as 40 – 50 organisations that have joined forces in the People's Campaign for Asylum Law with a strong non-profit profile and perhaps a little list to the left. I feel strong vibes from the People's Campaign against Nuclear Power over 30 years ago. I believe that the Centre Party's strong emotional commitment to this issue was a contributing factor in our two-decade voter support falling from over 20% to 4.8% in the 1998 elections – however right we were. Mr President, I would like to I ask for the floor again.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-410	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Center Party is taking great political risks by pursuing, together with only the Left Party, such a radical line as the Party is now doing. This line is not free immigration at all, but continued regulated immigration, but certainly more generous for asylum seekers than the Social Democrats and the Green Party stands for. I am, of course, in favour of Sweden being a great power in humanitarian aid and accepting people on the run according to its ability. But there are limits to what Sweden is capable of. My ambition is to be an open and transparent parliamentary politician. As a Member of Parliament, I have great loyalty to my party and have voted against the party line only twice for eleven years in Parliament. In my quest for dialogue with citizens and with center parties across the country, I run on Facebook several debate forums: Political Center Debate, Political General Debate and Center Friends Pol CV. On my blog Staffan Danielsson is for ten years more in-depth reasoning and links to all the issues that I run in politics – so also the one we are discussing now. If you want to know more about how I'm thinking, you're welcome there.
i-9nSGQZ11PnRkny7qyQuoTz	Mr President, I would like to We are debating here today the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs No. 10 An overall framework for active measures aimed at promoting equal rights and opportunities, etc. All people's equal value, rights and opportunities are important issues. I both hope and believe that we Members of this House, regardless of the party, believe that it is values that are important to protect. Sweden is in many areas a long way ahead in safeguarding everyone's rights and in terms of protection against discrimination. However, there is always more we can do and improve. Any form of discrimination is unacceptable. During its years in power, the Alliance government created better conditions for preventing and preventing discrimination, including through new and comprehensive anti-discrimination legislation and the creation of a anti-discrimination Ombudsman. The Alliance government carried out extensive work on significant changes in the area of discrimination with a view to tightening up the work against discrimination and making it more effective. In January 2009, the new, coherent anti-discrimination law came into force and replaced seven anti-discrimination laws. At the same time, two new grounds for discrimination were also introduced. It was also in connection with the formation of the Discrimination Ombudsman, when a number of authorities were merged. A new sanction was introduced, the so-called discrimination compensation, as discrimination must cost. It is important to look at and evaluate the legislation that is being introduced. In our view, there is a need to evaluate the discrimination law in order to get a better picture of how it has worked and to ensure that the reforms that have been implemented in this area have also had the effect that was intended. When such a review is carried out, it is reasonable that the new framework for active measures should also be included in the evaluation. Given this, then, it is our view that the government should have the anti-discrimination legislation evaluated. The Discrimination Act has an important role to play in the active work to prevent discrimination, and we naturally share the committee's view on this. The Alliance government, as I said earlier, made major changes in this area in order to streamline and tighten up the anti-discrimination work. As I said, a new anti-discrimination law replaced the seven anti-discrimination laws, and the Equality Ombudsman was set up. It was also the alliance government that set up the investigation that forms the basis of the government proposal we are now debating. We welcome and believe that it is good and reasonable for active measures to include all the grounds for discrimination for employers and education providers. However, we do not share the committee's assessment of the proposed requirement for annual documentation of work on active measures. The reason for this is the administrative burden and the costs that this can be assumed to have on the operators concerned. When introducing new legislation and regulations, it is important that the rules are proportionate to the benefits that can be achieved. This is important because it entails increased administrative burdens and thus increased costs for employers and high demands on employers' knowledge of the specific circumstances of the respective grounds of discrimination. It's not just costs. As the government wants to include smaller companies in the legislation, there is a risk that individuals' privacy will be violated when they appear in the workplace's accounts. We have been able to take note of the views of several consultation bodies, including IFAU, the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation. IFAU points out that the investigation on the basis of which the proposal was submitted failed to demonstrate that the expected effects of the proposals are so large that they outweigh the costs that they are expected to entail. We therefore believe that the requirement for documentation of work on active measures as well as today's requirements for action plans should be met every three years and not annually as the government is now proposing. We also do not think that the work on salary mapping should be carried out every year, but believe that today's demands for salary mapping every three years are reasonable and well balanced. We therefore reject the opinion of the committee and the government on this issue. Among other things, the fact that wage differentials have declined continuously in recent years, even though wage surveys have been carried out every three years, shows that there are many factors that influence development other than wage surveys. Nor do we think that it is justified to extend the circle of employers who are subject to the requirement for written documentation in pay surveys. Against this background, we believe that the government should return as soon as possible with a new proposal for amendments to the Discrimination Act, meaning that salary surveys should be carried out every three years and that the documentation requirement for active measures, including wage surveys, should be met every three years and also apply only to employers with 25 or more employees. Smaller employers are still to be excluded. It is important, as I said, that the legislation and its requirements are in relation to the gains that can be achieved with them. It is also important that we be careful to impose additional time-consuming and cost-driven administrative burdens on employers. We want it to be easier, more attractive and less risky to start, run and develop companies. That's how new jobs are created. We are also convinced that with our proposals, which, unlike the government, mean fewer administrative burdens, it is possible to comply well with the intention of legislation and thereby reduce discrimination. That is why, Mr President, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 1, which the Moderates have presented together with the Center Party and the Christian Democrats.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-433	Mr President, I would like to From one debate to the next – now we are here to discuss the AU10 report of the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Citizenship, on the basis of the proposal concerning a comprehensive framework for active measures aimed at promoting equal rights and opportunities, but also in certain motions. In the report, the Swedish Democrats have two reservations and a specific opinion, and I intend to dwell on them. I would like to take this opportunity to support both reservations, namely reservations 2 and 3. The Swedish Democrats are a party that welcomes the regular review of anti-discrimination legislation. Of course, all the legislation we have should be effective, and it should be ensured that it serves its purpose. On a number of occasions, we have highlighted the need, for example, to broaden the number of grounds for discrimination and to ensure that anyone experiencing any form of discrimination can be protected by existing legislation. In all cases, we have clearly assumed that anti-discrimination measures must never entail new discrimination in any form. That is why, among other things, we have opposed any form of quota and so on. Among other things, the proposal put forward proposes that salary surveys should be carried out annually. Demand for this, Mr President, is something that the Swedish Democrats have been involved in pushing forward announcements on. Wage mapping is a measure that has proved to be effective and which can open the eyes of employers who may not have been fully aware of the situation in their workplaces, simply because they have not thought of reviewing and comparing the situation of different employees. If a measure has had an effect and works, we see no reason why it should not be taken regularly. We were against reducing wage surveys to every three years, and we are, as I said, in favour of them being carried out annually again. On the other hand, Mr President, other changes have been made as we now implement the requirement that they take place annually. Among other things, the requirement for action plans has been left out as a result of the surveys. Instead, there is a permanent requirement for active measures to be taken at all times and documented on an ongoing basis. This means a sharp signal shift. Not only should you have action plans if you find that there is a need for action, but you should always have some form of active action to be taken and documented on an ongoing basis. There is no room left for the fact that there can actually be workplaces where it works properly. I find that very sad to see. Furthermore, the requirement for ongoing documentation risks shifting the focus of anti-discrimination efforts from focusing on detecting discrimination and inappropriate pay differentials to consistently taking note of measures that may not even be needed. That, in my view, and in the opinion of the Swedish Democrats, is a completely unreasonable focus and an unreasonable shift. We are therefore opposed to this and wish that changes to the proposed law be made as soon as possible in order to return to the current requirement for action plans. Furthermore, as suggested by the Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, we have felt that a large administrative burden should not be placed on small businesses. With the fact that we do not believe that documentation should be carried out on an ongoing basis, we believe that it should definitely not be done every year, but that the evaluations should be carried out every three years, even though the surveys themselves should be carried out annually. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned at the outset, it is not just the bill and its legislative proposals that we are discussing here. I would therefore like to say a few words about one of the motions proposed by the other parties being rejected. It is a exercise on a subject that has been brought up to date not least during the spring. We know that situations can arise where several different grounds of discrimination are set against each other. It must be ensured and seen that people can be considered to discriminate between themselves or as a reaction to what someone else has done and where different grounds are set against each other. We have seen in the debate, not only this year, but also in the past, that examples of this have been raised. Is it discrimination against someone's freedom of religion to consider themselves insulted if the person refuses to take your hand for being a woman? I do not think so. In my world, it is obvious that an active action has consequences. In this case, it was freedom of religion, but freedom or freedom of opinion need not be religiously motivated. If someone considers that he has the right to think that I, because I am a woman, should not be treated in the same way as someone who is a man is that person in his right to think so, but I am also in my right to act accordingly. I have therefore raised motions to review the legislation on discrimination in order to ensure that the freedoms we have in terms of equal treatment for all, regardless of what we believe or believe, can be curtailed and that we should have the right to act in different ways if one act in itself violates someone else. My freedom to be who I am should always stand stronger than anyone else's freedom to based on this treat me in a special way. For me, it is completely unreasonable that we have legislation that allows the consequences of active acts that are in themselves offensive to be considered more offensive than the first act. Again, I strongly support reservation 3 on reviewing legislation and ensuring that freedom is primarily about being who you are, not about violating other people.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-450	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party welcomes the fact that we are now expanding the active work to prevent discrimination. During our government years, we made extensive changes in the area of discrimination in order to streamline and strengthen the work against discrimination. A new and coherent discrimination law replaced seven discrimination laws, two new discrimination grounds and a new sanction – discrimination compensation – was introduced, and the Discrimination Ombudsman became a coherent authority. The Alliance government also set up the investigation on which today's report is based. The Center Party believes it is good that active measures should cover all discrimination grounds for employers and education providers. On the other hand, we do not share the committee's assessment of the proposed requirement for annual written documentation of work on active measures and the administrative burden and costs that this will entail, especially for small businesses. It is important that, when new rules are introduced, they are proportionate to the actual benefits that can be achieved. In the smaller companies that the government and a majority of the parliament's chambers want to include when it comes to annually documenting in writing, there is a risk that individuals' privacy will be violated when they appear in the workplace's accounts. As several consultation bodies have pointed out, including the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, the study on the basis of which the proposal is based has not been able to demonstrate that the expected impact of the proposals is sufficient to offset the costs that they are expected to entail. Neither does the committee give an answer to that question. The requirement for documentation of work on active measures, as well as the requirement for action plans up to now, we believe should be met every three years and not annually. Nor do we agree with the committee's and the government's view that work on wage mapping should return to doing so every year, but that today's demands for salary mapping every three years are reasonable and balanced. Sweden has previously had annual salary surveys. But we chose 2009 to change it and have it every three years, including companies with 25 or more employees. This has not slowed down the smoothing of the gender pay gap, but has continued in the right direction at the same pace. The question is what the government is actually trying to achieve with the return to annual surveys. Without answers in the inquiry, from the committee in the report or in statistics, my assumption is that this is a symbolic policy. If you look at the Institute of Mediation's report The gender pay gap in 2014 is 13.2% without taking into account structural differences such as age or gender overrepresentation in senior positions. This does not mean that a male nurse has a 13.2% higher salary than an equally experienced female assistant nurse at the same workplace. On the contrary, the pay gap is highly dependent on a wide range of other factors, such as occupation, work experience, training and the part of the labour market in which the work is carried out. The number of hours worked affects career opportunities and work experience. Women generally work fewer hours than men, largely due to part-time work, child care and sick leave. After standard weightings – that is, taking these factors into account – the pay gap is around 5 per cent instead. There's nothing new this far for us in here. These are known facts for all of us. The same report also shows that women are eating the wage gap annually. This is explained by the fact that around 70 per cent of the reduction in the pay gap is due to structural effects. In other words, the composition of the labour market has changed so that women are more entrenched in occupations with higher wages, even to the extent that the Mediation Institute writes that there is a trend towards reduced occupational segregation. This positive development has several explanations, which is why the impact is unlikely to be greater for returning to annual surveys. However, this part of the report has apparently been missed by the majority of the committee. Unfortunately, one cannot simply shrug its shoulders at the fact that the government is pushing symbolic questions in order to at least emphasise its good ambition. At the end of the day, someone is going to deal with all this bureaucracy. The price of the government's fluffy, well-meaning and probably ineffective visions lands on all those women and men who are now being forced into even more unpaid administrative hours in the small businesses serving the government. If the government had been looking to have an effect instead of symbolism, the Equality Ombudsman would have been given the task of monitoring and reviewing existing surveys – a previously tested and successful project. Nor do we believe that it is justified to extend the circle of employers to companies with 10 or more employees instead of 25 or more who are subject to the requirement for written documentation at the time of the salary survey. Overall, the Center Party believes that the government should return as soon as possible with a new proposal for amendments to the Discrimination Act, which means that salary surveys should be made every three years, and that the documentation requirement for active measures, including salary surveys, should be met every three years and apply to employers with 25 or more employees. Mr President, I would like to In order to achieve results with legislation, it is important that failure to comply with the law has consequences. An effective sanctioning system plays a key role in this context. It is therefore a pity that the Government's proposal that we are going to adopt tomorrow does not include any tightening up on the possibility of extending the limitation period for infringements of the Discrimination Act and the means of sanctioning discrimination cases. With legislation in this area, as in all others, it is necessary to monitor and evaluate, after a number of years, whether the outcome has turned out as it was intended or desirable. Therefore, it would be wise to evaluate the anti-discrimination law in order to ensure that the reforms that have been implemented in this area have had the intended effect. That review should also cover the new framework for active measures. I support all the reservations of the Center Party, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation 1.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-473	Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, the fight against discrimination is an important task in society. This work involves improving the legal tools to achieve the most effective and effective anti-discrimination legislation possible. Discrimination is a major social problem that prevents people from being fully involved in society. It affects individuals but is generally influenced by structural background factors. The overall aim of anti-discrimination work must therefore be to fundamentally change the structures, standards and institutions that maintain and restore discrimination in the workplace, in the field of education and in society at large. Tackling discrimination requires systematic, effective and long-term work. Active measures to detect and eliminate discriminatory factors are therefore crucial to achieving the goal of a society of inclusiveness and equal rights for all individuals and groups. After we have just had the debate on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, it is important to understand that what we do in other areas of work and what we do when we put people against each other, for example in the labour market, also affects discrimination. The Left Party welcomes the government proposal. We particularly welcome two of the proposals. One proposal is to amend the Non-Discrimination Act so that work on active measures in the field of employment and education will cover all seven grounds for discrimination. The second proposal is for the employer to carry out an annual pay survey for equal pay and to cover companies with at least 10 employees. The Left Party has been pushing these two issues for a long time. However, the Left Party believes that the question of how to combat discrimination in working life needs to be reviewed in its entirety. The focus should be to bring together the part of the legislation on discrimination relating to working life in a separate law. When the present merged anti-discrimination law was presented, many consultation bodies objected to the clarity and complexity of the law. The three main trade union organisations LO, TCO and Saco advocated separate legislation for the labour market, in particular in order to make it clear that discrimination is an issue of labour law that is just as obvious as other legislation relating to working life should be dealt with within the framework of the cooperation and conflict resolution arrangements of the parties. The Left Party believes that the views put forward are well worth listening to. The part of the legislation on discrimination relating to working life should interact with other labour law legislation and the norms and disputes a solution mechanisms established in the labour market. It is therefore perfectly reasonable to have separate legislation against discrimination in the workplace. The prerequisite for successful anti-discrimination work at work is that those responsible for implementing it should be involved in designing the tools to be used. This is how the strengths of the Swedish model can also be expressed in the anti-discrimination work, by giving measures a more concrete and relevant character, while ensuring that the follow-up can become more frequent and effective. The Left Party therefore believes that a study should be set up with the task of producing proposals for a separate legislation on discrimination at work. This is shown in reservation 9. Our reservation 5 is about there to be anti-discrimination agencies everywhere in Sweden. Of course, I'm behind that too. Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only apply for reservation 5.
i-PqYHLF7kGyUUnNxXCLGKK7	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask you to accept reservation 8 in paragraph 3. This report concerns the measures to be taken by many employers and education providers to combat, make visible and address discrimination. In the current legislation, there are such demands for action on three of the seven grounds of discrimination contained in our legislation. This has to do with the widening of the anti-discrimination law. This report, the legislative proposal we are now discussing, aims to ensure that the active measures are also in line with the anti-discrimination legislation we have. This means that it is not only discrimination in terms of gender, ethnicity or religion that should be covered by active measures but all seven grounds for discrimination. That's one part of this bill. The second part is that the pay surveys that many companies are going to make in order to highlight and counter unequal pay should be carried out every year ahead, not every three years as it is today. And that should include companies with more than 10 employees, not companies with more than 25 employees, as it is today. The Liberals are behind the main thrust of the bill and the committee's report. We have some reservations. The one whom I supported is that we believe it is important that these changes are also evaluated after three years, particularly with regard to pay surveys. For Liberals, it is logical and self-evident that active measures to be taken by major employers and higher education institutions should cover all grounds for discrimination in legislation. It is not reasonable to have active measures against gender discrimination but not against discrimination linked to, for example, sexual orientation. All grounds for discrimination shall be covered. We also addressed this in one of our party movements in October 2015, during this Parliamentary session. We also believe that pay surveys should be carried out every year. The reason is that the lack of gender equality in working life, especially in terms of wage setting, is such a major problem today. Mr President, I would like to There is a story about this. The Alliance government carried out extensive work to reduce administrative costs for companies. We simply wanted to reduce the hassle, bureaucracy and remove a lot of unnecessary rules that only cost money, took time and made it more difficult for entrepreneurs and traders. It was an important piece of work. The Swedish Agency for Growth estimates that the measures implemented by the Alliance Government to reduce red tape and bureaucracy for companies have saved Swedish industry over SEK 7 billion in the period 2006-2010 alone. One measure implemented in this battery of measures was that from 2009 onwards, companies were required to carry out wage surveys every three years instead of each year. It was not necessarily a wrong decision. At the time, there was a reasonable balance between gender equality and industrial policy objectives. But then there have been warning signals from several quarters, not least from the DO and the workers' organisations, that the continuity of work towards unequal pay is damaged by the three-year cycle. Towards the end of the last parliamentary term, the Alliance Government set up an investigation to review how active measures – including wage surveys – could be made more effective. We in the Liberals were pushing for that investigation. When the report came in 2014 and proposed annual salary surveys, we had also taken a position on this, including in a committee exercise in autumn 2014. According to the Mediation Institute, which I believe was quoted in a previous speech, the unexplained pay gap between women and men is still around 5%. Mr President, I would like to No society is absolutely perfect, and there will always be gaps in equality. Nevertheless, this is a step on the way to visibility and countering unequal pay and to contribute to a more equal society. That is why we support this. However, we in the Liberals are somewhat surprised that the committee cannot endorse the proposal we have put forward for this to be evaluated. We think it is perfectly reasonable that a change that includes also considerably smaller companies, that companies with more than ten employees should do these surveys each year, should be evaluated. It is, however, about companies that do not have large HR departments and other things and that may not have that capacity. A prerequisite for making the system work is that different types of templates and checklists and other things can be found to help companies work with the active measures, both in terms of pay surveys and other discrimination. We think it is reasonable to evaluate it after three years.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-499	Mr President, I would like to I support all of our reservations but plead for time winning only consent to reservation 1 as well as reservation 10. Mr President, I would like to The road to an equal society is still long. Income is distributed differently between women and men. And the difference seems to increase the longer you've worked. The Christian Democrats are concerned about this development. The Mediation Institute discusses different models of explanation, for example, that women are less matched to occupations in relation to their education or that women prefer more flexible and nearby jobs, which limits selection. However, there is also discrimination when employers assume that women will have higher absenteeism than men and therefore you are offering women jobs based on it, which perhaps keeps wages at a lower level. This form of discrimination must, of course, be countered in various ways. This report deals with the Government's proposals for changes to the Discrimination Act. This largely means a return to previous rules for how and when to do pay surveys. And as far as that is concerned, we Christian Democrats believe that it is a return that can have undesirable consequences. When the Alliance took office in 2006, it was intended to try to reduce the administrative burden, as has been mentioned here before. There was active work both within the EU and in Sweden. All authorities were asked to develop simplification measures. At the time JämO Claes Borgström, as well as spokesperson on gender equality issues for the Social Democrats at the time, also had to answer how this could be done. He then suggested that wage surveys could be carried out every two years in order to reduce the regulatory burden. The Alliance government proposed every three years and raised the limit on the size of companies for when this should be reported in writing from 10 employees to 25 employees. Despite this change, wage differentials have declined continuously in recent years. Now the new government is proposing to return to previous order. In the bill, we can note that there are critical referral bodies, such as the National Court of Justice, which lift up the increased administrative burden for the courts. The Swedish Armed Forces, Umeå University, Uppsala University, the Swedish Employers' Agency, the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting, Jusek and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and others highlight the problem of the increased administrative burden. After doing these pay surveys, you know it's a pretty extensive and demanding job– I'm an academic, so I know it. I think that it must be possible to do so at a slightly longer interval, and then put a budget in its operational and budgetary planning to remedy the problems over a longer period of time. There are usually structural problems with unequal pay, and they require longer-term measures. That is why we Christian Democrats think it was a balanced proposal that these surveys should be carried out every three years. Similarly, the annual documentation can be made at longer intervals. It takes a staff unit to pass the documentation. That is why we have said that there must be at least 25 employees. The proposal that all grounds for discrimination should be covered in the case of active measures is supported, but at the same time we recognise that it requires a high level of knowledge of the specific circumstances of each base and that the employer has the ability to deal with these issues without violating the privacy of individuals. Identifying different groups always involves a risk, which one must be aware of. It is therefore necessary to identify these different groups and also to take active action. The overall framework for working with active measures may present difficulties for the individual employer to apply the proposed working method. This may be helpful, but it requires that account is taken of the different conditions of different activities in order to work on these kinds of issues. There must also be flexibility in both enforcement and enforcement. Several parts of the legislation receive criticism from the consultation bodies. Now, in the Alliance, we have not been able to present a new legislative proposal, but we are asking the government to come back to the matter and are therefore proposing an announcement. Mr President, I would like to This is a complicated piece of legislation that will be difficult for many employers to interpret. But, of course, we believe that discrimination should be countered in both working life and society in general. We as legislators have an important role to play in pointing out the need for equal treatment for all and for no one to be treated differently. The Discrimination Act aims to safeguard the principle of equal value for all and everyone's right to be treated as individuals on equal terms. Ultimately, legislation is an expression of free democratic society and the values underlying the order of society. In 2009, a coherent law was introduced replacing seven anti-discrimination laws. At the same time, several authorities were merged into a discrimination ombudsman. In 2012, the Alliance appointed a study to review the requirements for active measures in the Discrimination Act. The Government's proposal is based on some of the investigation's proposals. And we see the need for active measures to be taken covering all the grounds for discrimination for employers and education providers. However, in smaller companies, which are proposed to be included, there is a risk that individuals' privacy will be violated when making the mapping elements. Mr President, I would like to Together with the Moderates and the Center Party, we propose that the Discrimination Act be evaluated in order to ensure that the reforms carried out in this area have had the intended effect. That review should also include the new provisions on active measures.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-515	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal and rejection of all reservations. I think that Fredrik Malm from the Liberals made a good plea for the approval of the government proposal and the proposal contained in today's report. What we are debating today are changes to the Non-Discrimination Act, which means that the work on active measures in the field of employment and education should cover the same grounds of discrimination as the prohibitions, i.e. the seven grounds for discrimination, and that an explanation of the term active measures is included in the Act: 中 Active measures are a prevention and promotion effort to combat discrimination within an activity and otherwise promote equal rights and opportunities regardless of gender, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation or age. ..................................................... The proposal also assigns an overall framework for work on active measures, while leaving the design of the concrete measures to employers and education providers in collaboration with employees and students, pupils and children, and that is a good thing. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a tolerant and human society characterised by diversity with respect for the individual's human rights and freedoms, and everyone's equal value should be respected. Yet we can see how people face prejudice on a daily basis and thus risk being discriminated against. These may include, for example, employers' prejudices about the origin, disability, age or sexual orientation of people who are best suited to a job, but who are not employed. It may be that a student is discriminated against on grounds of ethnic origin or gender. A current case in the labour market concerns a man who met all the requirements at work as a library technician – a job he had previously performed. But the ministry went to another person who lacked experience in this work. In this case, the trade union Vision considered that the City of Stockholm discriminated against the man because of age and ethnic origin. The case is now under review. In December last year, a transport company won a contract for blood transport for discriminating against a woman when she was denied probation because she was pregnant. The woman, who had worked several years for two of the companies that had previously carried out the transports, was told at her first meeting with the haulage company: In 2014, the clothing company Champion considered a woman suitable for an advertised job, but she was dismissed because she was a lesbian. The company later paid 60 000 kroner to the woman for discriminating against her. Three years ago, a free school in Gothenburg admitted to discrimination against a boy diagnosed with Aspberger syndrome when he was denied a place in school with reference to his disability and the need for special support – and this in Sweden! This is not good. If discrimination is to be tackled, active measures need to be taken. The legislative changes that we are about to decide on are therefore necessary. Mr President, I would like to When SCB measured women's share of men's wages for the first time in 1994, it was 84% of men's wages. Now women earn 87 percent of men's wages, and that is when all wages are counted up to full time. According to a study compiled by the World Economic Forum, the difference between men's and women's wages in Sweden decreased by only 1 percentage point between 2006 and 2015 – what Christian Holm Barenfeld describes as rapid development. During the same period, for example, Iceland's pay gap decreased by 10 percentage points. Sweden has since 2006 gone from a first place to a fourth place. Both Iceland and Norway and Finland have overtaken us. Mr President, I would like to Some argue that the difference in pay between women and men is almost exclusively related to traditional women's and men's occupations. However, if you look at SCB's statistics, which compare pay in different occupational groups, it is clear that there are pay differentials between women and men with the same tasks that cannot be explained by any factor other than gender. To quote the Chief Guide of the Leaders, there is still an unexplained pay gap of around six per cent between Swedish women and men, even if account is taken of differences in age, education, sector and occupation between women and men. The difference has been quite stable for many years and possibly tends to increase than to decrease. The Union's survey shows that it is among others private officials that the unexplained pay gap is greatest – women have 8.6 per cent lower pay than men, as is also reported in the latest gender equality inquiry. There are examples of inappropriate wage differentials in the near future. Last year, a female project manager at the Swedish Government got a salary increase of about SEK 6 000 per month after the trade union ST had run a case when it was discovered that the woman earned several thousand SEK less than her male coal legor. Mr President, I would like to We are now going to decide that the current requirement for a salary survey for equal pay remains, but such a survey is to be carried out annually rather than every three years. As regards the arrangements for documentation of work on active measures, it is proposed to replace the current requirement for specific plans with a general requirement for written documentation.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-533	It has been highlighted in today's debate that the opposition is against wage surveys every year. I would like to mention a few examples of how we can see the importance of this work. The employers' organisation of banking institutions, the BAO, does not see wage surveys as ineffective. We decided to make a big effort on equal pay for equal work in 2011, and then it was natural to do a salary survey once a year. We do not see the surveys as a burden, but as something that is important to be an attractive employer, says Gunilla Grenö, CEO of BAO. The Financial Association, which is the counterpart of the BAO, is of course in favour of annual surveys. If you do so as rarely as every three years, you have to start over every time, as routines and knowledge disappear. So the key is to work with it continuously. This builds up competence and maintains a continuous focus on gender equality issues," says Madeleine Lindermann, Head of Negotiation at the Swedish Financial Federation. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would once again like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-537	Mr President, I would like to I have seen in recent years a tendency on the part of the Social Democrats to see that jobs will be created in companies in the future. It's welcome. At the same time, we see many proposals that make it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work and that the costs for our companies increase. That also applies to this proposal. Accounting for the annual salary survey instead of every three years means increased administrative tasks and thus increased costs for companies. Doing such things takes time, and time is money. In addition, this should be pushed down in smaller companies with only 10 employees and up instead of 25. Eva-Lena Jansson said in her speech that this is important in order that the pay gap should not otherwise be reduced. The Alliance government introduced a survey every three years. We can see that the pay gap has continuously narrowed every year, which means that this cannot be directly linked. That is why I would like to ask Eva-Lena Jansson how she can think it is reasonable to add even more burdens to the companies, and now also to the small companies, if at the same time we want jobs to increase. This is not just about this proposal – you can see in the red policy a red thread: it will be red short for jobs.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-540	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld argues against an annual salary survey for that would involve administrative tasks for the companies. But just as I said and as the Financial Association says, you lose skills during the three years of one, skills that disappear. I am quite sure that wages are paid annually – even every month – to all workers. They probably also make work environment plans for companies that have fewer employees. If you continue to work continuously on these issues you get better at it. I believe that all employers need to develop. I cannot see that equality would be less important just because you have fewer than 25 employees.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-543	Mr President, I would like to In answer to a straight question, Eva-Lena Jansson says that it is worth imposing on companies, and now even smaller companies, increased costs by having salary surveys and other accounts every year instead of every three years. After all, we can see that the pay gap, with accounting every three years, has continuously narrowed over this period. This means that the correlation in between is not so clear. We are clear that we want to reduce the regulatory burden and costs for companies. We also want to make it easier to hire and ensure that it can be done at lower costs. That is why we are opposed to the red policy and call for our proposal to be approved. What Eva-Lena Jansson, the Social Democrats and the Government advocate means higher costs for companies. It would be nice to find out whether Eva-Lena Jansson thinks it is worth making political decisions about increased charges and increased costs for companies in this area and that it is more important than jobs.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-546	Mr President, I would like to As I explained, it is not a question of increased costs but of becoming more effective in the work that is being done. If you are effective, you reduce the cost. I thought Christian Holm Barenfeld was aware of that too. To refer to the Leaders: The difference has been quite stable for many years and possibly tends to increase rather than decrease. Leaders represent managers who see the inappropriate pay gap increasing. You do not want to do anything about it and refer to the fact that it is easier for employers to do this only every three years. I don't believe this. I believe that annual pay surveys will be more effective and better. Above all, people make use of skills and become an attractive employer. And if you become an attractive employer, you have every opportunity in the world to make more money and make more profits. This means that entrepreneurs are doing better.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-549	Mr President, I would like to I want to clarify certain things to those who are sitting and listening, because it can sometimes be difficult when we go down at a detailed level. There is agreement that active measures should apply to all grounds of discrimination. We all agree with the same demand not to discriminate. What we do not agree on concerns legal requirements for documentation. There is still full freedom to work with this in companies every year, every month or whatever it is you want to do. But it is with regard to the legal requirements that we and the government parties differ. With regard to wage surveys, we made a change in 2009 from year to year and from companies with more than 10 employees to companies with more than 25 employees. The Mediation Institute, which follows on from this, notes that the smoothing of the pay gap has not been slowed down in the years since 2009, which some believed would happen with that change. Instead, developments have continued in the right direction at the same pace. That's why it's a little hard to understand. I have read in both the investigation and the committee's position, but I cannot find the arguments. How is this supposed to happen? What effect will these proposals have? According to IFAU's criticism, the investigation does not show that the effects of these legislative changes are likely to be achieved. The arguments are also not to be found in the response given by the majority in committee to the motion by us, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, in which we say that we still want salary surveys to be carried out every three years. What do you want to achieve?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-553	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if the opposition listens badly to me, but I have tried to describe the argument. Why do I and we in committee think it is important to do this every year? It is because we believe that it will be more effective work and that it will be easier for employers to do this together with the trade union organisation. Above all, it is an expression of political will. We want an equal society without inappropriate pay differentials. Our view of annual wage surveys is quite broad. Even the Center Women signed a debate article on 8 March this year on the importance of annual pay surveys for companies with more than ten employees. I think we have quite broad political support on this issue.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-555	Mr President, I would like to Eva-Lena Jansson had two minutes, but I did not get an answer. But you have two more minutes, Eva-Lena. Describe to me how you will achieve this! There is no difference – before 2009 and after 2009 it has been the same pace and the same development. You and I are both very frustrated that it won't go any faster, but the gap is narrowing. What shows that something else would happen this time than what happened last time? Compare with the time before 2009– it's the same pace. It changes at the same pace. It hasn't slowed down. What is the argument that this will lead to something else this time? I do not mean the political will, but the factual and logical argument.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-558	Mr President, I would like to As I have already described, employers will be more effective. It will be seen that you discriminate and have unequal pay and want to do something about it. I think this is an important measure. If you do so every three years, you may not be aware of it and will also be able to maintain inappropriate wage differentials that you do not see if you do not do so every year. I also believe in the power of habit when it comes to bringing about change. If you make political decisions and want to make changes, I and the Center Women have the same argument. We want an equal society and set it up by, among other things, introducing annual wage surveys. We believe that this affects the discussion at the workplace about the pay gap. If you can see that the World Economic Forum shows that Iceland has reduced its pay gap while Sweden has not done so at all to the same extent, I think you should take those signals seriously. What will result if we do not? Maybe it's going even slower. Annika Qarlsson owes the answer to what happens if we don't.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-562	Mr President, I would like to As far as pay surveys are concerned, we agree that we want to reduce discrimination in the labour market. The 5% pay gap, which is inexplicable and discrimination, must be reduced. However, I believe that having such frequent surveys will rather create problems, irritation and not long-term solutions, but perhaps short-term solutions rather than long-term plans for improving gender equality. The consultancy market will of course see it as very positive. It's a way to get in and do it for those companies that can't do it. My focus is on active measures. We believe that active measures should be taken. But perhaps you can remain in the number of 25 employees instead of 10 because you increase the risk of people being identified if you have too few employees. The paragraph on active measures states that it should first be examined whether there is a risk of discrimination. It is usually included in the survey obligation that you should do statistics and look at how many there are. It is very simple when you look at women and men and so on and compare women and men. But how does Eva-Lena Jansson think that the duty of inquiry should be applied in other cases when it comes to transgender identity, ethnicity, religion and other beliefs and so on? Is there not a risk here that the privacy of the individual may be violated when starting to register in order to do this duty of investigation? That's my question.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-566	Mr President, I would like to Both the report and the proposal make it clear that the employer should do so together with the workers' organisations. That's where it's agreed how it's going to happen. I have not seen any criticism whatsoever from the Law Council, for example, that it would affect personal privacy. I don't see that risk. In that case, that risk would also exist in companies with over 25 employees. Then Désirée Pethrus will have to answer why that risk would be less in this context.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-567	Mr President, I would like to It is of course because it is easier to identify individuals when comparing 10 people than when comparing 25 people. It's a pretty obvious equation. According to the government, there were referrals– as I understood – who had said that they saw risks to personal integrity. I think that is something that needs to be considered. When I've done pay surveys and you compare between women and men, it's easy. But when we got into what is called diversity plans, it immediately began to become less simple. Should we start from the name of the persons who were employed, or what would we base ourselves on in order to do what is called duty of investigation as stated in Section 2, paragraph 1, to investigate whether there are risks of discrimination? It is therefore necessary to investigate and take stock of the people in different groups. Can Eva-Lena Jansson give a concrete example of how she believes that an entrepreneur should investigate whether there is discrimination against persons of another ethnic or transgender identity? Just give a simple example.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-570	Mr President, I would like to Since I am standing here as a Member of Parliament and neither as a representative of employers' organisations nor of workers' organisations, I do not believe that I should do so. We refer to active action at workplaces or at training providers.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-571	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs 10, an overall framework for active measures aimed at promoting equal rights and opportunities, etc. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. The government works actively against discrimination in all its forms. Polarisation in society is increasing, and it is most important to stand up for people's equal value and rights. Therefore, the government gathers strength for a Sweden that holds together, where a variety of opinions and lifestyles can meet and enrich each other. In the 2016 spring budget, the government is committed to protecting open society and democracy and to combating polarisation, racism and violent extremism. During 2016, SEK 31.5 million will go to efforts for a Sweden that holds together. Discrimination legislation aims to safeguard the principle of equal value for all and everyone's right to be treated as individuals on equal terms. A society that safeguards the equal value of all people is a society that gives everyone the opportunity to develop according to their individual characteristics and conditions and according to their own ability and choices. Active anti-discrimination measures play an important role in this work. This strongly suggests that active measures are still needed in the fight against discrimination. Active measures, like the prohibitions of discrimination, aim to prevent and combat discrimination. The prohibitions of discrimination are intended to counter concrete discriminatory acts in individual cases, while active measures, in addition to such an objective, also aim to prevent discrimination at a structural level. In general terms, therefore, active measures are intended to drive and encourage increased efforts to combat discrimination and promote equal rights and opportunities. By combining prohibitions of discrimination with rules on active measures, efforts to combat discrimination can also be aimed at actively supporting positive development and continuous improvement in tackling, for example, structural discrimination. For example, the new rules can be assumed to help strengthen groups with a weak position in the labour market and in the field of education and training. The rules on active measures are thus an important complement to the prohibitions of discrimination. The amendments to the Non-Discrimination Act contained in the proposal mean that the work on active measures in the field of employment and education should cover the same grounds of discrimination as the prohibitions of discrimination and that an explanation of the term active measures should be included in the Act. The proposal also assigns an overall framework for work on active measures, while leaving the design of the concrete measures to employers and education providers respectively to design in collaboration with employees and students, pupils and children. The current requirement for a salary survey for equal pay remains, but such a survey is to be carried out annually instead of every three years. As regards the arrangements for documentation of work on active measures, it is proposed to replace the current requirement for specific plans with a general requirement for written documentation. The requirement for written documentation at the salary survey is changed to include employers with at least 10 employees instead of today's 25. The written documentation is proposed to be made annually. These are important measures to strengthen the fight against discrimination. It is important to promote diversity and gender equality in the labour market and to combat discrimination in working life. Effective work on active measures will, according to the government's and the committee's assessment, complement the various targeted efforts made in labour market policy aimed at strengthening groups with a weak link to the labour market.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-580	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating motions on gender equality and the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Government's gender equality initiative. We can see that no government has invested as much in equality as the alliance government. I say it again, Mr President, because I do not believe that the public is aware of it: no government has invested as much in equality as the alliance government. It was a historic venture. The left may think what it wants, but they are facts. We are really proud of that, but of course much can be done better, not least to ensure that the positive effects of the initiative are lasting and lasting. A total of SEK 2.6 billion was allocated in order to increase equality between men and women. The Alliance government mainly prioritised action against men's violence against women. In addition, the measures concerned gender equality in education and increased knowledge of women's health. The Swedish National Audit Office's report showed that the initiative focused on gender equality, and the Swedish Audit Office estimates that it has accelerated work on gender equality issues. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is usually described as one of the world's most equal countries, while inequality remains a social problem that has negative consequences for both men and women. We are equal, but not everywhere. It is important now that we do not back down from equality at a time when it is being tested. We have let down certain women, especially in the immigrant suburbs. There are women in our country who are not allowed to go to work because there is a risk that they will meet men in the workplace. Healthy individuals who are fully able to work must not participate in society because the man is afraid, and that is totally unacceptable. This is an outdated structure that forces women to go for financial aid. Of course, this does not apply to everyone, but it is enough for one person in our country to be prevented in his or her rights and freedoms to be sufficiently serious. We have a Prime Minister who here in Parliament said that we shake hands with each other in Sweden. At the same time, we were told that the police in Skåne believe that freedom of religion weighs more heavily. The freedom to belong to any religion, of course, weighs more heavily, but you must not act in any way and refer to a religion. A passport controller must continue not to shake hands with women, and that is quite the wrong way to go. We in the Swedish Parliament and at the Swedish authorities must clearly show that we do not turn to gender equality. Public authorities should of course be at the forefront of gender equality, and the Police's regulation letter states, among other things, that the work on gender mainstreaming should be developed so that the activities contribute to the achievement of gender equality policy objectives. The decision taken is, of course, contrary to the objectives of gender equality policy. One might wonder how half of Sweden's citizens feel when an authority person is allowed to treat people differently because they have a different sex. If you work with a public employer, it should be clear what applies, and then cultural values do not outweigh the principle of equality between men and women. Religion is a private matter, Mr President, and not a matter for the state. Men's violence against women is another important issue that needs more attention. Recently, we were able to read and hear about a terrible case of violence against a woman who died from her injuries. The damage had been caused by a man who, according to a member of the prison service, should not have been released into society. When it comes to violence, honour-related violence and repression, authorities and civil society must pay particular attention. It is about early intervention and seeing the signals. On average, 17 women per year in Sweden are murdered by their partner or former partner. Some 17,000 assault offences were reported where the perpetrator had a close relationship with the victim. This senseless violence must stop. Mr President, I would like to Another important aspect for greater equality in a society is education and economic freedom. Free individuals are not dependent on anyone else, such as one man, for economic reasons. There are many women in our country who have felt free only when they have received their first pension, because they have been dependent throughout their lives on their husband's income and economy. Sweden's prosperity is based on everyone working, whether you are a man or a woman. In the middle of the past century, when public schooling was introduced, it was a journey that freed the Swedes, and knowledge is the key to freedom. The Moderates' proposal on education requirements for newly arrived adults is extremely important if we are to have a more equal society where you improve your employability. Everyone who is healthy and able to work should work. The government will open the way for a compulsory law on quotas on company boards unless there is a better distribution. The issue of equality between women and men often ends up in a discussion on quotas in political contexts. I understand that the government in its faith has good grounds for resorting to such mandatory legislation, but it is contrary to property rights. The question is: are women discriminated against in the fight for board positions in our stock exchange companies? We know that the statistics as a group are still under-represented, but there is no research in this area. We do not know whether under-representation is due to discrimination in the sense of sex discrimination. There is some correlation in the extent to which the gender balance of current company boards depends on the age distribution and thus reflects how many women studied further at universities when the board members were trained. I believe, Mr President, that in the near future, at least 40% of the members of the board of stock exchange companies will be made up of women – but not because of quotas but because of their own strength. Women are more educated today than before, and that is much better. It is interesting that the Social Democrats and the Left often propose legal requirements for, for example, quotas for business. But let's take a look at what it looks like in the union. It's not a pretty sight. In LO's federal board it looks like this: Karl Petter, Tobias, Ingela, Torbjörn, Johan, Magnus and Per-Per-Olof. Of 18 members, 4 are women. That's 22%. In Building it is Johan, Lars, Patrik and Jim. There are 100 percent men, in addition to a woman who is adjunct to the Building Board as a youth representative. But, as we all know, the adjunct must not be involved in making any decisions. It doesn't look good for the movement. It would be better to clean your own house before threatening a quota law. Finally, it is important to point out that Sweden, which is the world's most equal country, has some way to go until we have total gender equality in terms of economic equality and values. Swedish women work full-time to a greater extent than before, but at the same time spend more time on unpaid work at home and provide a majority of the care days for sick children or relatives. Unfortunately, we know that women also suffer more from stress and are sicker. There, policies must be much better so that both men and women can combine family, work and leisure time. The Alliance's work line has increased the conditions for economic equality. The driving forces to work have been strengthened, especially for women, who are over-represented among low and middle wage earners. The government now wants to roll back that policy. Instead, the Moderates want to continue to strengthen the drivers of jobs by reducing taxes on labour, with the emphasis on those with the lowest incomes. In order to reduce the unequal distribution of work in the home, we want to strengthen the gender equality bonus and introduce a vab bonus. Since women's ill health rates are higher and more women than men are forced to leave working life prematurely due to ill health, we want to continue our efforts to improve women's working environment. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, all individuals should be able to design their lives regardless of gender. Gender should not be an obstacle to becoming what you want. It is therefore important that we stand up for equality and put it before rules that run counter to an equal society. I commend our reservation 4.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-600	Mr President, I would like to Gender equality is an important issue. In the report, we consider the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Government's gender equality initiative and a number of different motions with claims in this area. I will start by saying a few words about the letter as such. Anyone who reads both the report and the motions extremely carefully may note that the Swedish Democrats have chosen not to raise a follow-up motion in connection with the letter. The reason for this is relatively simple. The Swedish National Audit Office has been tasked with evaluating the investments carried out based on the objectives behind the investments. It has long been known, I hope, that the Swedish Democrats do not fully share the view on these aims and the gender equality policy objectives that all the other parties have set themselves. It's not because we don't believe in gender equality – for us it's a matter of course that as a woman, as a man or as something else, if that's what you are, you shouldn't be judged by your gender, but by your efforts, by who you are and by the choices you make. On the other hand, gender equality policy objectives include counting gender and assuming that an equal distribution of women and men in different positions in society determines whether we are equal or not. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that this is the wrong basis. We do not see unequal distribution of men and women as a sign in itself of inequality. It may well be that unequal distribution results from discrimination in working life, but it may also be that sometimes it simply results from the fact that women and men on the whole, if you compare the groups, may have slightly different characteristics and wishes. For me, it goes without saying that we are not necessarily made in the same form. What I want when I strive to achieve equality is to look to me as an individual and not to what gender I have. Gender equality can never be achieved if the basis is to start from what gender I have. In view of this, I have been raising motions from time to time that the objectives of gender equality policy should be updated. This is also evident, Mr President, in reservation No 1, which is the first of our reservations to which I would like to endorse. But this does not mean that there are no measures or efforts to be made. We know that there are differences that affect our chances of a good life based on the gender we have. We know that women work more often in those sectors where economic conditions are a little worse, sometimes rather worse economic conditions. We also know that the choices women make more often, regardless of the basis, lead, for example, to poorer pensions and worse economic conditions throughout life. But is it the solution to try quotas, or to dictate how many women or men are going to work in which industry? Will it be better if the bad conditions affect as many men as women, or are they the conditions in themselves that we should combat? In addition to wage surveys, which we debated earlier and which the Swedish Democrats have pushed for to get through regularly where there are signs of discrimination, the Swedish Democrats have also highlighted the need to ensure better conditions in the women-dominated industries. We know that it is mainly women who are affected by the fact that the public sector has more difficulty in putting together puzzles and ensuring full-time work for everyone who wants to work full-time. That is why we have proposed strengthening the possibility of going up to full-time instead of working part-time against one's will. This strengthens the economy of women and men working in those industries, and it also strengthens the quality of work for the employee and the welfare of users. Mr President, I would like to It is in this way that the Swedish Democrats want to combat the problems that affect women in particular, but not only women. Instead of counting the number of men and women affected and rather than detouring the problems more evenly, we are making sure to solve the problems. Mr President, I would like to During the spring, not least, the issue of people who suffer from oppression because of their gender or sexuality has been put back on the agenda. In recent years, we have slowly but surely begun an increasingly viable debate on honour-related violence and oppression. I am extremely proud, happy and grateful that I have been born and live in Sweden. It is a country that historically has a tradition of protecting women's security. In fact, Sweden is believed to have one of the world's oldest women's peace laws. Of course, it was not perfect when it was introduced, but we have a tradition in this country of valuing women's security and security. It doesn't look like that all over the world. Thankfully, very few people consider it appropriate to introduce values and to accept judgments of values that distinguish between men and women and give men freedoms and deprive women of their freedoms and rights. Thankfully, there are many who recognize the importance of working vigorously against honour-related violence and oppression. I believe that no one in this House has been good at reading reports on girls who are being asked to bring needles on their wedding night to pretend to have some kind of innocence, which we all in here, incidentally, reasonably know cannot be shown with blood in such a way. At the same time, you waver. It's easy to say when it goes really, really far. It is easy to stand up and say that we can never accept violence. But it is not only when it is gross physical violence that rights are violated and freedoms are removed. Mr President, I would like to On the Swedish Democrats' side, we have long been clear that we want to combat honour-related violence and repression we have to ensure that it comes up, and then we have to take strong action wherever it comes up. It is not good enough to accept that you back off to make things easier. It is not good enough to think that gender-segregated bathing times, for example, are an appropriate way to enable women to learn to swim. If women are only allowed to stay in the bathhouse when no man is present, it is not equal. On the contrary, we have given in to those forces that feel that women and men do not have the same right to stay with each other regardless of the circumstances. Therefore, Mr President, I would also like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation 10, which lists a number of measures against the values and forces behind the honour-related repression. It is about both working with more honorary hotlines and strengthening those who need help to leave an oppressive structure behind. Many of the efforts that exist today for women's and men's rights to leave destructive conditions and homes focus solely on the relationship with the current partner. But when it comes to honor-related violence and oppression, it's bigger than that. You do not suffer oppression or violence from a partner, which is bad enough, but you often need to leave all your reality, your whole world view and all the acquaintances behind. So widespread is the pre-pressure. It's not about an individual who violates another individual. This is about a person who has to leave everything he or she has to get fundamental freedoms and rights. Special expertise is needed there. Special knowledge is needed there. There it is not good enough with the same tools that apply in other forms of near-violence. That is why we need more special hotlines and special tools in these contexts. But that is why we also need to clarify something. This applies, for example, to gender-segregated education. This can be about training measures in SFI, where women have in some cases had to hide behind screens. This could involve encouraging women to use special swimming pools in swimming homes. This could involve the creation of special asylum accommodations for women, as some have suggested. We can't back down there. We must not give the oppressors a single millimetre. That's where we're gonna stand. Because in our country it is not a question of greeting by shaking hands or not, it is a question of treating men and women equally and greeting men and women with the same respect. To conclude, Mr President, I would of course like to say that I also support our third reservation. But, as I said, for time winning, I only plead for reservations 1 and 10.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-623	Mr President, I would like to The threats in society have become very real in the past year. They somehow limit everyone's everyday lives. It was an act of terror in Paris. There is an increased level of security here at home in Sweden. There was a terrorist attack in Orlando last weekend. And now it was also a murder of a young woman, a mother of young children and parliamentarians, in Britain. All of this together leads us to consider whether we dare or want to do things. It concerns sports matches, concerts, travel, debates and political engagement. We are not used to this. It's for most of us new and unpleasant. But it's not new to everyone. Many women live every day in fear of threats and violence. They are in such a vulnerable position that almost every step of everyday life is affected. These women do not have any recommendations from Säpo to relate to. Their threat level is constantly on a four or a five. The work against violence in close relationships, where women are over-represented, has been going on for decades. But we're far from done. The goal is that no human being should have to live in fear of being beaten. There is an action plan, which has been in the lake for many years, to combat men's violence against women, honour-related violence and oppression as well as violence in same-sex relationships. It has led to improvements and increased knowledge and is largely implemented. The Center Party wants to continue that work and see a zero vision of violence in close relationships and for sexualised violence. In order to achieve this, a new national action plan with measurable objectives is needed, with one clear mandate being given to all the relevant authorities, and there must be strong requirements for monitoring and evaluation. An action plan will cover everything from prevention to emergency response. The work must have a holistic approach and be carried out in collaboration between the police, social services and the judiciary throughout the country. When authorities miss the signals they receive from victims of violence, it has disastrous consequences. Between 15 and 20 women are murdered every year. The other week, it happened again. The Action Plan shall include both preventive and emergency elements. The measures required are mandatory threat and risk assessments, enhanced victim support following police reporting, restraining orders and other personal protection measures. More people who work in professions that come into contact with victims of violence must have basic knowledge of violence in order to understand the mechanisms of violence and intervene early. It must become compulsory in several vocational training courses. The judicial system also requires increased knowledge of how victims act in vulnerable situations. Training is available, and apparently there are more people who need to attend them. When it comes to honour-related violence and oppression, notions of innocence and chastity are often the focus, and the family's reputation and reputation are seen as dependent on the actual or alleged behaviour of girls and women. No one should have to be oppressed in the name of honor or be forced to marry a person whom he or she has not chosen. It must also be part of the action plan to take a concerted approach to these issues as well. If the authorities concerned do not cooperate, this could have enormous consequences for the vulnerable. One of the most vulnerable groups is the women who are victims of violence after they have been granted a residence permit in Sweden because of their affiliation. According to reports from Swedish women's shelters, they meet an estimated 500 women each year who have been exposed to so-called "fru import". A large part of these women come to Sweden after so-called quick-linking, i.e. after having known the man for a very short time or only via contact on the internet. The so-called two-year rule, which should be removed, in connection with the Aliens Act, forces many foreign women to remain in a relationship where abuse occurs. Mr President, I would like to The report deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Government's gender equality initiative. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the efforts made within the framework of the Alliance Government's special gender equality initiative 2007–2014. That this initiative, which is the greatest ever, has given us new knowledge and experience, most people probably agree. Knowledge has been built up. But new problems have also become visible, and awareness of strategically important issues for gender equality has increased. While the initiative helped to develop and speed up work on gender equality, there were no conditions in ministries, authorities or planning for the results to be as good as they should have been. In these experiences there is much new knowledge to retrieve and implement. Gender equality is essentially a question of justice and democracy. And inequality exists in all parts of society. The costs and unexploited potential related to inequality are rarely covered. Only for one of the four gender equality objectives of the Riksdag and the Government are there estimates of costs. The costs of an equal society are also largely undisclosed. In order to be able to bring about changes more quickly, it is important that the issue is given a thorough picture from a national economic perspective. Politics needs independent figures on the cost of inequality for the state, for society and for the individual. What I and the Center Party are calling for is an inequality Stern report. The Stern report showed the costs of global warming and was related to bnp and provided a completely different basis for decision that could not be ignored. A similar report on inequality would show that it is highly economically justified to also make uncomfortable decisions to tackle inequality – it is an argument in addition to a just and democratic argument. Mr President, I would like to I support all of the Center Party's reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 7. Now I turn to you who follow this debate and are exposed to threats and violence or who know someone who is exposed: The Women's Rights Line is a national support phone that is open 24 hours a day for you. Your phone call doesn't cost anything, and it doesn't show up on the phone bill. The telephone number is: 020-50 50 50.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-637	Mr President, I would like to We, the Liberals, have a reservation in this report. I'm in favour of it. That's reservation 13 under point 4. I would like to use my time to talk a little about this subject, namely honour-related violence and oppression. We all know the names Pela and Fadime. There were two women in our country who were murdered. One was murdered in Iraqi Kurdistan. She lived in Sweden but was taken there to be killed. Malala Yousafzai, who recently received a prize, wanted to educate herself. Because of this, she was punished. She was almost murdered. She was shot. There are countless women who have got acid in their faces, who have been stoned and so on. It is the punishment for having broken norms in different ways or not acting in the way that patriarchal, deeply conservative and reactionary society – and the family, clan and family – demands that they live on. They have not only been punished by their loved ones. They have also been punished by society as a whole. They have been punished not only for an individual act, but they have been punished from a kind of context in which honor lies. You can have family counsel and in different ways agree on the punishment and so on. That's what makes this more specific than just a common violent crime. These are the famous cases: Pela, Fadime, Malala and the women you sometimes see appearing in various photographic exhibitions and elsewhere who have had their faces ruined. These are the visible cases, the known cases. But there are also millions and millions of individuals, many of them also in Sweden, who are not visible, who are afraid, who are worried, who are limited in their existence, who must not have their personal bubble of integrity in peace. It's about girls who aren't allowed to grow up in freedom, women who aren't allowed to work, gay guys who don't dare to come out, girls who aren't allowed to have social relations with guys and vice versa, children who are married away, girls who have been sexually grafted, etc. This issue of honour-related violence and repression, Mr President, is increasingly being discussed in Sweden. There are still a few who have the blinders left and deny this, but there are not many of them. It is imperative that these issues be discussed more, because the established Swedish society, including – in general – the Riksdag, our media and many others, has been naive to this for a very long time. Not necessarily because one has somehow denied it, but because one has not had knowledge. It has not been known how the mechanisms and structures of honour culture work. They have been naive, unacceptable, ignorant and passive. However, in some cases it has also labeled perfectly reasonable, justified and legitimate criticism of this as racism and xenophobia. For some strange reason, this affects especially young, feminist girls with roots in the Middle East. I think there's even someone sitting near my seat in this Chamber. They've been hit hardest. But it is also those who often know this best. They are the ones who have grown up in this kind of chastity culture and so on. It is those who have broken free from this, who have chosen another path in their lives, who have gained security in Sweden but who now feel that this kind of notions and attitudes are getting more and more into Swedish society again. This is an incredible challenge for our country, and if we cannot increase our knowledge of these phenomena, we will also pave the way for some kind of ultra-right which is becoming even more aggressive and louder and which has not understood that this type of problem exists in all religions in the Middle East region and is not specifically associated with Islam. This is more linked to reactionary patriarchal notions, a cultural phenomenon that is based on girls and women being quiet and not working or educated, but being relegated to a dark corner and not making a fuss of themselves. Even young guys are affected by this. Mr President, I would like to We need to talk about this in order for Sweden to be a country for the freedom of all individuals. We need to talk about this because equality and freedom should apply to all people in Sweden, no matter where they come from. We need to talk about this because in Sweden Swedish laws will apply. Sweden should be a secular society. We cannot accept that we have suburbs in Sweden where people run around like small popes and act as moral police against young girls because they don't go dressed the way these people think they should go dressed. This means that other forces take over areas in Sweden, areas that should actually be an inclusive part of our society where the same rules apply. No matter where you are in our country, you shouldn't have to be afraid. No matter how you dress, you should feel that you can be safe in this. On the Liberal side, we say 'yes' to equal rights, but we say 'no' to cultural relativism just as clearly. Cultural relativism is in almost total contrast to the idea of individual freedom, individual rights and liberal open society and is based on different standards, different attitudes, different actions and different treatment of people according to what people come from from cultural backgrounds and other things. This is not how the Swedish government, the Swedish public, can act against the inhabitants of Sweden. We have great acceptance that people live in different ways, choose different paths in life, that not all families look the same and so on. We have a great deal of tolerance for this in Sweden, but the Swedish state power and public access must be very clear that we guarantee all citizens equal rights and that people are equal before the law. Mr President, I would like to The committee writes in the report, a little thorny, in response to those who raise these questions, and now it comes to put their trust in the government's measures to prevent or prevent honour-related violence and oppression. It's a little defensive, we think. It's a little passive. That is, above all, completely inadequate, Mr President. Of course, we need to clarify much, much more clearly how important these issues are, because if we are not able to handle the integration in Sweden also of the very large number of people who now come to Sweden, not least from war areas in the Middle East, we will of course see more of this phenomenon in Sweden. We must be realistic enough to realise that. Therefore, greater clarity is needed in the integration process. It is necessary to strengthen social orientation, to act more for security in suburbs, for safe housing and much more. Above all, it is extremely important to constantly emphasise the gender perspective: that young girls and women have the right to their freedom in Sweden, no matter where they come from, no matter what parents they have or what family relationships they come from or, for that matter, what sexual orientation they have. There is also an economic part of this. The work line mentioned earlier is also linked to these issues in that people who are allowed to work have greater financial security. The clearer society is with the importance of all people working, the harder it becomes for a man to tell his wife that she does not have to work. That is why the connection is so important: You should do your duty to society, and if you are healthy and of working age is the rule in Sweden that you should work, and that must be the case. It must be made clear to all the people of our country how important this is. This also means that you should not contribute to exclusion through the design of certain transfer systems, such as parental insurance and other things. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that there is one thing in the reservation that we have called for to be approved of, and that is the last paragraph about the fact that, in the case of honour-related violence and repression, we know that this is happening. We know that it may be quite widespread, but it is still the case that the scope is not yet quite clear. The data available is uncertain, often old and focuses mainly on underage girls, although many more groups are affected, including LGBT people and also people with disabilities. Where you work intensively on the issue, it becomes clear that a lot of people are affected, no later than 2014 when Norrköping Municipality, which is the pilot municipality for the county administrative board in Östergötland's national work against genital mutilation, discovered 60 cases of genital mutilation of girls, where most are believed to have been carried out outside Sweden. We therefore believe from the Liberals that the government should urgently set up an investigation that seeks to identify the extent of honour-related violence and repression in Sweden.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-659	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Malm, for a long and important speech with many good points! Almost right up to the end, there was nothing for me to object to, but now I have to, because it still appeared, albeit in passing. After a long talk about freedoms and opportunities for elections and that we should all be able to choose how we live our lives, it is nevertheless quickest that social security systems, such as parental insurance, cannot be designed in such a way that – yes, what? Mr President, I would like to Parental insurance is designed in such a way that both parents in a relationship get a certain number of days each. Then there is the opportunity to give days to your partner if you think that is what suits your own family best. It is by no means a binding system. It is by no means a system that locks people into certain roles. If it is the case that elections take place that are not based on free will, something other than the design of the system is behind them. Then something else should be fought. It is particularly interesting when the Liberals argue on matters of parental insurance. I remember an article from the Women's League and the Youth League last summer. It was argued on the basis of the work line that one of the main reasons for further, or even full, quotas of parental insurance, i.e. removing the possibility of leaving days for the partner, is that women are needed out there as midwives. They should not choose to be at home with their children if that's what they want, but they must for the good of society out and work. Are Liberals behind the idea of forcing people to work rather than making it better to choose work?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-665	Mr President, I would like to I am referring in particular to two things in the sense that, as parental insurance is designed, it can contribute to exclusion. Among other things, it is about how many days you get to take out for children. If a family comes to Sweden, we know how important it is for the mother in the family to get to work quickly. Then it is not very good if there are many days to take out for the children, which means that people remain on parental leave for a long time. It is a way of breaking exclusion so that more people, including women, enter the labour market. There is also the custody allowance. As a Liberal, I believe that the contribution has the effect that in many cases it means that women do not enter the labour market. The care allowance can have such an edge that women from certain types of cultures are considered not to work at home. That's not very good either. Those were the two things I was talking about. It was not the general starting point that both men and women are at home with their children, but rather how days can be used later. Some of this has been corrected both across the blocs and by the former alliance government when Nyamko Sabuni was Minister of Integration.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-669	Mr President, I would like to I wish I could thank you for the answer, but it was not really an answer to my question. For example, that the Swedish Democrats do not think that one should be able to take out any number of days retroactively when one comes here with many children and that it is important that there are incentives to become part of society I think Fredrik Malm is well aware of. I asked if Fredrik Malm shares the union's view that a woman's role is to be there for society; if she has the nerve to want to be at home with her children, she should not be allowed to do so because she might happen to be midwife and there is a lack of midwife in the country. Women must go out and work, and they should not be allowed to choose their own lives. That is the heart of the matter. I fully understand that there are other parties in this House who think that one should govern and ask how individuals should live. But what the Liberals stand for when talking about the design of parental insurance is that the Liberals know best how families should distribute their parenting days. I find it hard to understand how a liberal might feel that way. I would like to ask once again why it is considered that politicians should know centrally how many days each parent can take out in their insurance without being able to hand over to the partner if they think it is best. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask whether Fredrik Malm has any confidence whatsoever that people should have the opportunity to choose for themselves. Why not try to limit aftereffects? Why not look at the levels of parental insurance so that there are no financial incentives that govern who chooses to stay at home? Do you really think that the state should govern rather than make it possible to make as free choices as possible for each individual parent?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-674	Mr President, I would like to The last one was a little strange. People who have just come to Sweden have no previous income to relate to. The income loss principle does not kick in this way in insurance. Mr President, I would like to It's gonna be a little weird around here. I thought the line would be about my speech, but it will obviously be about an article some fellow party members wrote a year ago. Let us return to my speech. I said, Mr President, in my speech that the work line is important and that we should not create exclusion through parental insurance. At that time, the Swedish democrats' Paula Bieler initially asked what I mean. That's the question I answered. I mean that you should not be able to take days out indefinitely, or even until the children are seven, and that the custody allowance has a lock-in effect. Then Paula Bieler says I didn't answer her question. What other question should I answer? It becomes a little unclear because it was this that touched on what I said in my speech. If this is to be some kind of public debate on Liberals' views on parental insurance, I can say that it is a balance between families being able to deal with children during the first year and having the freedom to shape their parenthood in a good way. There is also an equality aspect to the labour market so that we do not lock women away from the labour market. There is broad agreement in Parliament on these issues. Then you can discuss whether it should be a father month, two or three. However, the very idea of parental insurance is still widely agreed.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-679	Mr President, I would like to I agree with our reservations, but for time winning, I agree to only reservation 3. Today's report deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Alliance's major gender equality initiative, which ran from 2007 to 2014. The Alliance government bet. Listen to me. – 2.6 billion SEK on various initiatives to increase gender equality. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the money has played an important role, but it says that there is a risk that the results are not sustainable in the long term. The projects have not been sufficiently integrated into the regular activities, although gender mainstreaming was part of the strategy. The Swedish National Audit Office now believes that better governance should be created with the help of instructions to the authorities. State activities can be governed in different ways. We Christian Democrats believe that it is urgent for the government to tighten up the requirements for the state authorities to work more on gender equality internally and in outreach. The overall mandate to integrate gender equality activities should be progressively included in the instructions of the authorities. The regulatory letters to the authorities should contain clear requirements for reporting back on how the activities have contributed to meeting the gender equality policy objectives applicable in the respective authority. Equality is a question of democracy. Regardless of gender, all people must have the same rights and opportunities to influence and participate in the development of society. It is therefore important that men and women are represented in different decision-making assemblies so that both women's and men's skills, perspectives and priorities are taken into account. In the gender equality policy objectives supported by the majority in the Riksdag, the issue of equal distribution of power and influence is highlighted. It is an objective that comes from a decision taken by the UN to increase gender equality in the world – the so-called Beijing platform. However, we still know that far too few women are in leading positions around the world, and in some countries there are few or no women at all in parliaments. The EU has incorporated these objectives in its strategy for gender equality. As late as 16 June this year, Council conclusions were adopted in the EU, where paragraph 9 states that the strategic approach to gender equality in the EU 2016 – 2019 should be based on five priority areas. It is about much of what we have here in Sweden: increasing women's participation in the labour market, making economic independence equal for women and men, reducing the pay and pension gap and thus combating poverty among women, making power and influence equal, and combating gender-based violence and protecting victims. Finally, the EU will make efforts to increase gender equality in the world, including through the EU's aid budget. Thus, gender equality policy objectives are interlinked from the UN and the EU down at national level. They are about the same; they are based on the same objectives that we have set together at international level. The government claims to be a feminist government. I do not know if there is any difference between the previous government, which had the greatest ever effort in the area of gender equality. What concrete economic efforts are being made in the field of gender equality today? Is there any real parallel to what the alliance government launched? For example, when we took office in 2006, I remember that many women's organisations had been fighting for increased resources. We in the Alliance tenfold increased support for women's organisations. The Red-Green Government says in its letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report that work within the Government Office has begun to strengthen and develop the work on gender mainstreaming. But what happens concretely? It is difficult to interpret the actions we receive. Now it is almost two years with the feminist government, and I have heard many fine statements about being feminist. But what about gender budgeting? What is it concrete? What could we simply say to the common man outside? We have now introduced gender budgeting, and that means this. It's like a lot of talk and a little workshop. Mr President, the report also discusses the issue of quotas. The government is in favour of this. But using the quota instrument, I would say, is a bit difficult. There is a risk that it will be counterproductive. It is not enough to impose quotas on women unless attitudes and values change at the same time. That's a bit what Erik Andersson was into earlier. It's great that the trade unions talk about equality, but if you don't have any women in leading positions in these trade unions, then you're a bad role model. Words and actions must be compatible. The state can do more to recruit and strengthen equal boards in its operations. However, the fact that quotas for boards of private companies with which the government is now threatening constitutes an infringement of property rights, and mandatory legislation should therefore be avoided. However, pressure is needed on this issue, and the state can be a good example. Former Christian Democratic Minister Mats Odell made a lot of concrete efforts to increase the recruitment of women to state top positions, which also produced results on the boards of state companies. It is with awareness and commitment that you can gradually make changes. Just talking quotas without having a concrete content gives no results. Swedish women's employment rate is among the highest in the world and contributes to women's economic independence, which is very positive. We have a highly gender-segregated labour market from a European perspective. According to a report from the Swedish Work Environment Authority 2013, Sweden has the second most segregated labour market in Western Europe. Municipalities and county councils have mainly been women's labour markets. During the years of the alliance government, a series of reforms were made possible which helped to break the dominant employer monopoly and improve the development and security of traditionally women-dominated professions. The growing number of private health care companies promotes the increased representation of business leaders who are women. For several years, women's entrepreneurship has followed a strongly positive trend in parallel with the alliance government's implementation of reforms that freed previously regulated entrepreneurship sectors. The Swedish Agency for Growth noted that between 2006 and 2012, the proportion of companies run by women increased by 34 per cent. It is therefore worrying that it is now possible to detect a negative trend break which coincides with the new government's restrictions on former expansive industries. With regard to women and the pay gap, we had that discussion in the previous debate. The Christian Democrats' family policy programme provides modern and flexible support for all families with young children – including single families. Our basic goals are justice, freedom of choice and the opportunity to spend more time with the children. We welcome the fact that more and more fathers choose to take out their share of parental insurance. Children need to connect with both parents. The Christian Democrats are in favour of the gender equality bonus introduced by the Alliance Government and feel it is a pity that the current government parties are abolishing it. Men's violence against women in close relationships and in other situations is the ultimate expression of the lack of equality in a society. It is totally unacceptable that someone should have to live with the risk of being subjected to violence. In the survey carried out by Brå in 2014, it appeared that in 2012 approximately equal proportions of women and men were exposed to different types of psychological or physical violence by a current or former partner at least once. On the other hand, it is more common for women to report repeated exposure. It is also considerably more common for women to be subjected to aggravated assault leading to the need for medical care and, at worst, death. Fear of being exposed restricts the life space of girls and women. Support for women's and men's shelters therefore needs to be strengthened, and the resources for education among personnel within the state, municipalities and county councils about violence in close relationships and honour-related violence must be increased. Access to rehabilitation for those who practice violence is also important in protecting the vulnerable. In addition to protecting and assisting victims, society must confront the underlying values and attitudes that contribute to the practice of violence. Today, there is no specific legislation on honour crimes. This means that crime victims – often women etc. sometimes also men or LGBT-persons – disappear in crime statistics and society lacks a comprehensive understanding of the extent of the problem. We must have a sanction which is a deterrent to the perpetrator and which, for the victim, would provide an opportunity for higher claims for damages. This would make it easier for the police to work preventively. The offence would be taken more seriously, and the legislation would have a deterrent effect with a specific offence. Legislation on honour crimes would also improve the conditions for punishing more people than one. The motive for honour crimes differs from other crimes in the way that there are usually many involved in the crime. I have only mentioned this request in a specific opinion in the report because it is formally dealt with in the Committee on Justice. With this, I am in favour of reservation 3 and apologise for my long speaking time.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-708	Mr President, I would like to My introduction could be basically identical to the one in the last line shift. There are very wise but also some things, to some extent in the same areas, to which I respond. The first area I intend to address is quota. I think that Mrs Pethrus very well mentioned that quotaing is not a tool to use in all situations. It is here that, in all situations, quotas are not enough unless the values otherwise change, which prompts my question. I recall once again the campaign of your Youth League, which I enjoyed very much. The Christian Democrats Youth League proudly showed us that We can do it – without quotas! ..................................................... I'm a little surprised and perplexed now. Do the Désirée Pethrus and the Christian Democrats believe that quota is, after all, an appropriate tool at times but that it needs to be followed by other things? Does it consider it reasonable to resort sometimes to quotas, i.e. active discrimination as a measure to combat discrimination?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-712	Mr President, I would like to I do not really know what Paula Bieler is referring to because in my speech I said that I did not advocate quotas. In the international context, many people want quotas in this House, for example in Iraq, where there have not been many women. They say: we want quotas with at least 25% of women. I can understand that. If you have had zero or only a single percentage of women, you may think that quotas for women to a parliament feel reasonable in order to reach a certain level. On the other hand, there is a risk that the women who come in will then be held hostage for quotas. Unless at the same time we change attitudes and values among parliamentarians, among those who vote and among those who are politically active in the parties in the country, nothing has been achieved. It turned out that in many Eastern countries that came into the heat and started discussing gender equality with the EU, the proportion of women went back when quotas were removed. In some cases and in some countries it may be acceptable to quota women into parliament, but the quota instrument is very delicate, and one should be very careful. Attitudes and values are the key, just as I mentioned in relation to trade union organisations, which have a loud voice in terms of equality but do not apply quotas themselves. Then it's a principle that doesn't hold. We believe that it is much better to work with attitudes and values and not resort to the quota instrument.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-716	Mr President, I would like to It is good and good to hear that you are clear there. I wish it could have been even clearer. What prompted the question was that it is not fully said that it is not effective. In my world, it is a direct counterproductive tool in many ways, and I wish that it was clearer on that point. I would also like to point out that one of the things that prompted my question was that Mrs Pethrus mentioned in the speech that the number of women and men in certain positions should be counted and that reference should be made to previous speeches on whether it was men or women who were in managerial positions. This brings me to the next question, which concerns the equality bonus, which the Christian Democrats here declared to be behind. The Christian Democrats therefore realise that they may not be able to direct and set up fully with parenting days that are devoted to either party – because the Christian Democrats have, thankfully, a sensible attitude – but at the same time the financial incentives are very strong and can be crucial. For many families, a bonus becomes more of a compulsion than an opportunity to choose freely. On the Swedish democrats' side, we have proposed that, as I tried to get into a previous replica shift, for example, they should raise the levels, so that the income as a whole for the family should be the same regardless of who stays at home. It should not be financial incentives that govern who stays at home. I wonder if the Christian Democrats would consider looking at such a model rather than trying to control the withdrawal and sit over what the families themselves think suits them.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-720	Mr President, I would like to Let me take this up again by being absolutely opposed to all quotas. Now Paula Bieler can't answer. If anyone should come to me and say that they want 25% of women to be quotaed into the Saudi Arabian Parliament, I do not know if I could say at that point: no, you absolutely must not, because I am against quotas. I don't know if I could go that far. However, as far as the quota instrument is concerned, I and my party are still committed to the fact that if it does not change attitudes and values, it does not matter. In essence, therefore, we are opposed to quotas, but not at international level at all times. When it comes to gender equality and parental insurance, we in my party are very clear that we see the importance of both parents, both mothers and fathers, being at home with their children, even in same-sex relationships. It is important that children have their role models and that they have access to two parents. It's really important. Then we need to find incentives. If we are not in favour of quotas in parental insurance, we want to try to find other incentives for everyone to shoulder their responsibilities. Above all, unfortunately, it is the fathers who have not taken their responsibilities. We know the importance of male role models for many of the children, and it has often been lacking in the development situation of many children and young people when they have been negative. What the Christian Democrats will be in favour of in further negotiations with the Alliance is trying to find different incentives to get both parents to shoulder their responsibilities. I cannot answer exactly how we are going to design this in the future. We are currently working on development work within the party in this area, so we will come back on this issue.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-724	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. I now want Mrs Pethrus to listen extra carefully, because at last we can see concrete political proposals and reforms that will make a difference. This will have a positive impact on the work towards gender equality. SKL has promised full-time collective agreements. The abuse of fixed-term contracts shall be removed. Now comes the work environment strategy for modern working life, where a sub-area is the psychosocial work environment. There will be more resources for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The Government has set up an inquiry into more equal and safe insurance in the event of occupational injury. There are special investments in work life research and much-needed investments in welfare, such as 2 billion annually for elderly care, which is good for everyone who works there. There will be more colleagues, a better working environment and better quality for the elderly. There will be increased support for childcare on nights, evenings and weekends. Arbetsförmedlingen is tasked with promoting a less gender-disaggregated labour market. The Government has commissioned the Mediation Institute to look at the relative wage changes that have taken place for different professions. The social partners will also be strengthened in their efforts to reduce the pay gap between women and men. The Mediation Institute has also been tasked with analysing key collective agreements in order to make it easier for local parties to work on gender pay issues. The government has also increased efforts on gender mainstreaming in our agencies in a first step from 18 to 41 agencies. Another so-called father's month is introduced into parental insurance so that parents will share parental responsibility more equally. The legislation on discrimination, which we have debated earlier today, is being amended so that there are pay surveys every year and for more companies. Research on women's health, free mammography for women aged 40 to 74 years, free contraception for young women, removal of the custody allowance and lower taxes for low-retirement pensioners. There will be investments in equal health and health insurance billions. You get rid of the precipice in health insurance. There will be an increase in the basic amount of parental insurance, an increase in maintenance support, free primary care for persons aged 85 or over. We know that more women than men are over 85. Efforts are being made to provide information on health and gender equality for newcomers. The Government has also given several assignments to work to prevent women's violence and so on, as has been mentioned in several speeches earlier. This applies, among other things, to investments in women's shelters. The government has set up an investigation into the online hatred. The government has appointed an ambassador against human trafficking, who has been working for about a month now. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the focus of gender equality work on men and boys. The Government's objectives are equal company boards, which some have also mentioned here in the past. There is ongoing preparation of the gender equality policy investigation's proposals on new milestones, strengthened governance and an expert authority. Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I do not take up any more examples. Mr President, I would like to Politics makes a difference. Things are happening in our red-green government, which is governed by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. It is not just words, but here it is a question of action and delivery within the policy area of gender equality. The government is constantly working on gender mainstreaming in the budget. It makes a difference and will yield positive results eventually. This report also deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the previous Government's gender equality initiative during the period 2007–2014. It was a few years ago, and not everyone may remember how the debate went in this House. The alliance parties beat their chests when it came to how much money they invested. At the same time, there was no mention of changing the policy so that it would benefit men more than women. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office is clear. There is a great deal of criticism of the previous government's gender equality initiatives. There was too little focus on sustainability, too little space for strategic thinking and a gap between ambition and real governance. There was also a lack of structure to deal with the result. There were no clear targets or follow-ups. And it was bad foresight when it came to the money and what it was to be used for. This is a clear criticism of the previous government. Our S-MP government instils that it was justified, according to the government's letter. And our government is taking it on board for future gender equality work. To be honest, it also says that some positive things happened. But the risk is that knowledge and efforts are not permanent, according to Riksrevisionen. Not knowing what SEK 2.6 billion of our common tax money goes to, not steering it or following up an investment of SEK 2.6 billion or not knowing the benefits it will bring is not spending taxpayers' money responsibly. Mr President, I would like to As the report states, there has been a long-standing consensus across party boundaries on the overall objective of gender equality policy. Only the Swedish Democrats express that an even distribution of power and influence between women and men is not desirable. The Swedish Democrats reason that those women who do not have power are women who do not want power, but every life situation is the result of a natural and conscious choice. The Swedish Democrats' so-called gender equality policy is an outdated view of the role of women in society and in the family, which the committee strongly questions. Despite a great deal of knowledge and knowledge about what needs to be done, there are differences between parties in how and what should be done to achieve gender equality. We Social Democrats are proud that our red-green government is delivering. And we know there will be a lot more to come. We know that women have lower incomes. We don't think it's okay. We do not think it is acceptable that women do not get full-time as the norm in the labour market. We don't think it's okay for women to have a tougher working environment. We do not think it is okay to care for our loved ones so that 170 000, mostly women, leave work or go down in time. We don't think it's okay for women not to be valued on the basis of their skills. We don't think it's okay that women don't have the same power and influence. The list can be made long. And it's gonna take time. But the red-green government makes a difference. Mr President, I would like to Last week, TCO presented its first gender equality index. They say there, just as we Social Democrats do: 'Equality is a growth engine'. If women were to work or run companies to the same extent as men, the growth would increase by SEK 550 billion, and bnp would increase by 13 percent, according to TCO's calculations. It is profitable to work for women, girls, men and boys to have the same opportunities throughout their lives. But it is also about seeing that men and boys benefit from equality. Finally, I can sum up that equality is good for all of us. Raising the situation of women increases equality. Happy summer!
i-c1e82354135ec07b-755	Mr President, I would like to In fact, no government has invested as much in gender equality as did the Alliance Government. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the initiative has focused on gender equality. The Swedish National Audit Office also considers that it has accelerated work on gender equality issues. Then the Social Democrats say that it is not well spent tax money. I think it's all about jealousy. It is quite envious of the Social Democrats that an alliance government has invested much more than all the other previous governments in the country have done. Mr President, I would like to I'm wondering about something else. It's about values. Where do the Social Democrats stand when it comes to Swedish values? We are the world's most equal country. It is important that we continue to stand up for our values. Now we are in a situation where people from other countries come here. They come from countries that may not be as equal as ours. For example, women do not participate in working life in the same way as here. The Moderates have suggested social orientation with exams and degrees. It addresses issues relating to the rights and obligations of both men and women in terms of work and livelihood.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-762	We're very equal. But there are areas where women and men are not at all equal. We must break that trend.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-763	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the investment of 2.6 billion, it is not I who say that, Erik Andersson. It's not about jealousy. It is about this government's gender equality initiative and the Swedish National Audit Office's report and review. It is enough to read the summary of it. I can look up the page where the summary is and read the headlines. The first title is: Results of the review. The second title is: Too little focus on sustainability. The third title is: Too little space for strategic thinking. Next heading: A gap between ambition and real governance. If you have invested 2.6 billion of tax revenue, you should know what the money is to be used for, manage them and evaluate the results. In my speech, I also said that some positive things have come out of this effort. I am the first to say that I am happy about it, because otherwise it would have been even more reprehensible to invest this 2.6 billion. The fact that we are the world's most equal country is not true. Since the bourgeois government did not do enough during the previous terms of office, we have fallen behind. The other Nordic countries run ahead of us, so that's not true. We should take care of our Swedish values. We will also ensure that the women and men, girls and boys who come to Sweden know that we stand up for women and girls to have the same rights as men and boys. It's extremely important.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-768	Mr President, I would like to I have also read the report, and I find it difficult for the sentence that it has been shown that the focus on gender equality has been placed on gender equality and it is estimated that there has been a focus on gender equality issues. So we interpret it a little differently. Values are important. We can make any laws in the Swedish parliament, but if the values in society do not speed up work on gender equality – equal rights for men and women – I wonder again: M has proposed a social orientation with tests and degrees. What is the position of the Social Democrats on this proposal? Then I can develop my question a little more: do the Social Democrats believe that different bathing times should be accepted? Can men and women be treated differently by referring to unequal values in religion? I want a clear answer as to where the Social Democrats stand on this issue.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-771	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson will get clear answers from me. In Sweden, Swedish laws apply to everyone, regardless of whether you come here from another country or whether you are born and raised here. It's the same for everyone. We have freedom of religion, and we should also take care of it. You and I can have any faith we want. We do not need to share each other's beliefs, but that is the legislation that we have in Sweden. It's about you, me and everyone else. I don't think you can be any clearer than that. Mr President, I would like to I understand that I trampled Erik Andersson, the representative of the Moderates in the debate, on my toes when I raised the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the SEK 2.6 billion investment. Why I criticized this is because I am passionate about women and men, girls and boys getting the same opportunity. If you invest SEK 2.6 billion in the area of gender equality, I hope that the tax funds will be used in the best way so that there will be a change. It is the National Audit, not the Social Democrats, who make that criticism in their review. It can't be any more obvious than that. If you want us to live in an equal country, we have to make certain decisions that affect reality. We dare to make those decisions. Sometimes it's about not being popular in all camps. But we push for women and men, girls and boys to have the same opportunities throughout their lives.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-777	Mr President, I would like to When I hear government representatives talking about gender equality policy, it's a bit like the Emperor's new clothes. There's a lot of talk, but there's pretty naked behind it. There's nothing concrete. I am a feminist, but what you are saying here in gender equality policy is snow moss. It's old bets that are rewritten. In principle, I recognise all initiatives in the field of gender equality. These are the same efforts made by the Alliance government. An investment of 1 billion was made in care for the elderly. When we analyzed it it turned out to be old money that was taken from the dementia plan, from the meal lift, from the retirement home guarantee and from competence development for the staff. Then the money went to other investments in elderly care. You just switched what the money was going to be used for, so it wasn't a new bet. The Alliance government invested 2.6 billion during its period. That was quite a bet. It was a lift compared to before. My specific question, then, is: how much does the new government put together these efforts? How much does Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg think the government is investing in gender equality during this term of office? We know that it is huge areas that are suffering from cuts, such as aid and the development of women. How much does Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg get the gender equality efforts together?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-782	Mr President, I would like to To be honest, Désirée Pethrus, I have no exact figure on what our total gender equality efforts cost. But of course they cost a lot of money. At the same time, we have a completely different focus on our policy. Before all decisions we look at how gender equality for women and men, girls and boys is affected. So we associate all political decisions. In view of the budget, it is extremely important to look into it. If you don't, you'd be happy to get even more for someone who already has a lot of money. The 2.6 billion that I was very critical of was included in the Swedish National Audit Office's review. It is not just us Social Democrats who have questioned this, but we have read what the National Audit Office has said. It is the Swedish National Audit Office that has been very critical in its review. I did not mention any examples of investments that you made during the eight years in which you were in power. You said they favored women, but they just hit straight the other way. The care allowance is one example. The Christian Democrats pushed it very clearly. It hasn't benefited women for five cents. Rather, it has locked women into exclusion rather than becoming part of society. We have ruled a year with our own budget. During the first budget we had to conduct our policy, but with a bourgeois budget. So we haven't been able to do everything we wanted.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-787	Mr President, I would like to I have every respect for the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism, but with regard to the 2.6 billion, it is a very important conclusion that we must integrate gender equality more, even if it was the idea. We need to get better at that. The Swedish National Audit Office's audits are aimed at further improving things. It is not primarily about everything that we did for 2.6 billion being bad. That's not how I perceive this review. Now, the Swedish National Audit Office will not be able to make any review of your gender equality policy, as you have no coherent plan or particular initiative that we had. So it'll be very easy for you. What you are doing in this area is introducing a quota of parental insurance. Then you also introduce quotas on company boards. But do you have nothing else that you want to change? We worked extensively to change attitudes and values in different areas of society. That's what I'm asking. I think the government should do the same. I have two questions. One concerns women as entrepreneurs. As I mentioned in my speech, the Swedish Agency for Growth noted that the number of companies run by women increased by 34% in 2006 – 2012 but is now going back. One can discuss what is the reason for this. But I am concerned that it is health care companies and various other companies where women have been able to develop that are going back. Why has the effort been put into ambassadors for women's entrepreneurship? My second question concerns crimes of honour as a special offence. How do the Social Democrats and Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg view the possibility of such legislation? This is something that the Christian Democrats are pushing.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-794	Mr President, I would like to Now I got a lot of questions from Désirée Pethrus. I don't think I'll be able to answer them all. But this honorary crime is within Anders Ygeman's and Morgan Johansson's remit, so I leave it there. Désirée Pethrus talks about women's ability to start a business and says that the number has now fallen. Many women who have started businesses or want to do so say that childcare does not work because it does not exist at night and weekends, which one might need. They also often mention that elderly care may not work if you have an old parent who needs it. For those reasons, you don't dare or can't start a business. That piece of money was not invested by the previous government, but it was excluded. In addition, the rules we have for parenting, sick leave and more are not always adapted to small businesses, and it is usually small businesses that women start. Then there was our gender equality policy. Whether the policy is carried out in the Committee on Employment, the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the Committee on Taxation, there must be an analysis of gender equality. It is needed in all policy areas. That's when the results come. You cannot just put it in a pot and in a committee, but you have to look at each individual policy area if it is to produce any results. We have the main responsibility in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, but it is because many of the regulations we are dealing with are linked to working life. There is a great deal that we can influence, for example with legislation. A lot depends on it. But I do not think I need to list all our proposals again.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-797	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't think you have to list everything again. If you list a lot, I also think you can hide certain things that may not always be in line with other things you want to say. It is quite correct that we in the Swedish Democrats do not set the targets as they are formulated, as I said in my main speech. This does not mean that we believe that women and men should generally be in a certain way or that a certain distribution is of evil or of good. On the contrary – if – what it means is that we do not want to focus on the distribution. We believe that this is a bad way of measuring whether or not we have an equal society. I don't want to be seen as a woman and counted as a woman. I want to be seen as the individual I am. I want the favor of not representing every other woman wherever I am. I'm me, no matter what sex I have. It is in connection with this that we want to change the objectives. In her main speech, Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg mentioned that they wanted to combat the gender-segregated labour market. Here is an excellent example of how it will be when you focus on even distribution. It shifts the focus from the issue of good conditions everywhere to the question of what it looks like for men and women. The same applies when we support, for example, the requirement of quotas for company boards, which is, moreover, a strange place to focus so clearly on gender equality. After all, there are quite few over the main take t that are relevant to end up on board positions. My question is simply: what picture do you think you send out to women and men if you think they should be counted primarily as women and men? What is expected to be addressed by ensuring that there will be a certain number of women and men in different places?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-801	Mr President, I would like to I can start with quotas. Quotas are already in place today. Men quota men, and women can stand outside. Women hit the glass ceilings, even though they have a high level of expertise. We Social Democrats think that this is regrettable. We believe that women with skills should also have the opportunity to enter the corridors of power. That is what we mean by power and influence on the same terms as men have in society. Women don't have that today. With statistics, we can follow up on this and see how it looks. Today we know that women do not have the same power and influence on company boards, for example. We know that women are educated and have as good skills as men. But it's about getting in where the power is. With regard to the issue of a gender-segregated labour market, we can see that women have been much better at looking to the other side, training and moving to the typical male-dominated professions. Men do this to a very small extent compared to women. Perhaps not many men see their future career in health care, for working conditions are not as good as they should be. But women have worked there, and women with poor working conditions have always been exploited there. With statistics you can see how it beats and how different conditions are given to women and men. Statistics are important.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-804	Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out that the removal of the words are in no way tantamount to the removal of the idea that women and men should have the same power and the same opportunity to be active citizens. It's just a matter of shifting focus from numbers as a way of evaluating whether a certain target is achieved. Do you have the same opportunities? How do you experience the situation? How do we combat actual discrimination? These are the issues we should focus on instead. As for statistics, I can say that I love mathematics, which is very close to my heart. But it should be seen as an evaluation tool. You can look further at the reasons behind this. It is not possible to use it as a measure of whether you are there or not, because then I will be reduced to women and my male colleagues reduced to men. The focus will then be shifted from the actual situation. On the other hand, my question, Mr President, was about the specific problems to be solved by combating gender segregation in the labour market and why the problems should be solved if there were as many men as women. I am very pleased that, after all, it seems to have realised that the problem to be solved is the poor conditions on the women's dominated side of the labour market and not whether it is men or women who work primarily in certain sectors. The Social Democrats have been talking for a long time about the importance of the right to full-time, as they call it. Here, too, it was mentioned as hastily in the speech. I also know that legislation is being proposed quickly, for example for company boards, which is now being discussed. We, too, have talked about the importance of being able to work full-time, but we propose and advocate above all that we work to address the problems in ways other than through legislation. Instead of forcing employers to employ up to full time, we want to provide better conditions. We have specifically proposed incentives to municipalities and county councils that have many civil servants women who want to work full-time but cannot. I wonder: what proposals do the Social Democrats have besides the legislative tools?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-808	Mr President, I would like to The first step is taken now. We promised that we would try to get a collective agreement if there was a red-green majority in SKL, so that one would get full-time as the norm. It's taken care of now. Then it will not be from one day to the next that all who so desire have full - time. We know that. But there are studies and studies that show that it doesn't have to cost much more for a municipality if you just organise the work properly. We have, in the first place, advocated the model of collective agreements, and if that were not possible, it would be legislation. Not all women in the public sector now work, and not all are covered by a collective agreement through SKL's negotiations with the parties. This is a starting shot. We now hope that other unions and employers will follow suit. If you want to be a good employer, have competent staff and hire those you want, the requirements will increase for those who only hire part-time or for shorter periods of employment. Now I hear from many places that the labor force is if you want not exist. It is positive in its own way, but it is also a concern. Here and now there will soon be another competition. I hope that Handels och Hotell- och Restaurangf acketet and others will get full time as the norm more into the women's dominated labour market.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-814	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an exciting opening speech. You really gave me some answers. What is a bit interesting when you look at the Swedish National Audit Office's review is that it is done afterwards. Audits usually have a certain ability to be that way. It is also a little interesting that depending on where you were when the bets were made you read in a little different things. Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg notes that little was right in the investments made by the Alliance in 2006– 2014. When I listen, I can see that we did a great many things, such as efforts under the action plan against men's violence against women. There we made sure to develop training courses for professionals. We have finally, finally managed to get the judiciary to sit on the school bench to educate themselves. We also have courses aimed at teachers, social services and many different already professionals to increase knowledge. When I look at them and many other investments I can see that there is continuity and sustainability in all those investments. I think Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg actually agrees with me. What the Swedish National Audit Office notes is about governance. When you look at the work of the ministries and the authorities, there is more to be desired. Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg puts the whole blame on an alliance government that apparently would not know what it wanted to do when it invested so much money in increasing equality. I see there was no such bet before. They had not worked in this way on gender issues before. My question to Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg is: would it have been better to ignore this? Or do you see the value of us making such a gigantic bet, where some things turned out well but above all we learned more?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-821	Mr President, I would like to Everything you can learn from your mistakes is good, right? Now the current government will ensure that it does not make the mistakes made by the previous government, according to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, but highlights it. I understand that I have stepped on a sore toe in the alliance parties. I say again that it is not the Social Democrats who have made this harsh criticism, but it is the National Audit Office in its review report. I can read the headlines again for what it writes.
i-5f3896897176f58c-0	I've heard about them. ) Annika Qarlsson from the Center Party has already heard. Of course it's good with what did s that was good. That is what I said in my speech. I can refer to myself one more time: To be honest, it also says to read that some positive things happened. But the risk is that knowledge and efforts are not permanent, according to Riksrevisionen. An investment of SEK 2.6 billion is made, which is an incredible amount of money. It is so much money that you hardly know how much money it is, and it is tax money that is being used. That's usually when you're very concerned that things are going to be okay. When you get such strong criticism, you have to think a little bit. Some things came that were good from the initiative, and it was good that we have done them. But what price did it cost? Was that right? This can be discussed, even if it was the first time such an effort was made.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-827	Mr President, I would like to That was $400 million a year. In the state budget, that's not a huge amount of money. It's a little interesting. We went from 20 million, I think it was, that the government Persson invested in gender equality. It was very small sums. Somewhere there's gonna be a waste of tax money. This involved a wide range of actions and actions. I am the first to see that there are things that we can do much better, especially in terms of planning, governance, monitoring and evaluation. That is a little bit what I think are the most important conclusions. The Swedish National Audit does not go into individual initiatives and measures. For example, if we look at NCK's activities, there is a fantastic development with the resources and resources we put in these years. They have increased the knowledge and created the conditions and opportunities for the care to meet patients in a different way but also the conditions for those who have been victims of rape to get a good treatment that creates the basis for being able to make demands on the police in the next step so that there is also something of a report. In fact, there are many things that will live on for a long time. It's about how you work inside the department. If we look at the list of things that Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg began his speech with, it is not about how to work in the department. The only thing that really concerns what is part of the Swedish National Audit Office's review is the work that is being done with the authorities where more and more agencies are now involved in integrating the operations. It is something that we also support and think is very good.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-833	Mr President, I would like to I can understand why it annoys the alliance parties, because I had many lines changed, that I could recite some of what we are now doing in a government position. Of course we're passionate about gender equality. The things I mentioned are under the heading that it benefits women more than men. We know that much of politics has benefited men more than women in the previous eight years. I did not say anything in my speech about what was being done that weakened women's opportunities or other conditions during the eight years that they ruled. The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out a certain type of audit. That is again a large amount of money. I can see why you want to reduce it. Everything you've done that's good, it's a good thing it turned out good. I myself remember that municipalities and those who would get money did not know the first year what to use the money for. It was not clear requirements or guidelines for what to do with them. We were then strongly critical of that. The Swedish National Audit Office has been involved in this. Everything that is good from a gender perspective benefits us all in one way or another. But what I messed up at the beginning is good for equality. We're proud of that. We will come up with more proposals and more things that promote gender equality.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-838	Mr President, I would like to It is a very important and urgent debate we are having in this House today on gender equality policy and how to move forward in this area. After several serious events recently, we have been reminded of the importance of gender equality, what it may cost if development stops and what it costs already today because it does not go fast enough. Women have fought for centuries for equal rights, equal treatment, equal responsibility and equal opportunities. It has been a struggle with fierce opposition, and many have even sacrificed their lives. We have come infinitely far since the so-called Hertha discussion in the 1850s, which eventually led to mine and your predecessors in the Riksdag, who were then only men, deciding that unmarried women could apply to be of age and be able to decide their own lives at the age of 25. Over the centuries, women have been treated differently and considered less gifted and unfit for work and a life in public. Since then, women have conquered one right after another. We have come a long way in Sweden compared to many other countries in the world. However, there are still many inequalities to combat: women still take three-quarters of parental leave, still have lower wages for women and are still subjected to violence and abuse precisely because they are women. Last year, 28,967 reports of abuse of women over the age of 18 were reported. This is an increase of 12% since 2008. In three out of four reported cases, the suspected perpetrator was familiar with the woman, and in almost half of the cases the beating was done indoors by a person the woman had a close relationship with. In addition, the number of darkness is great. In previous studies, the Crime Prevention Council has estimated that only one in five cases is reported. Sometimes the assault is so gross that it leads to death. The fact that a woman is beaten to death by a person close to her is the ultimate proof of inequality. In Sweden, about 17 women die that way every year. So we still have some way to go in terms of gender equality. The most urgent thing is to put an end to violence before further women's lives are wasted. This is totally unacceptable, and it is only one of the proofs that we must continue to talk about and fight for equality. Last February, the Government decided to appoint a special investigator with the mission to develop a national strategy to achieve the gender equality policy objective of ending men's violence against women. The strategy, recently presented, proposes, inter alia, the need for better coordination, structure and clarity in the efforts to combat violence against women by men and honour-related violence. It is one of the government's priority areas to increase the efficiency, quality and long-term sustainability of efforts in this area. The Government has also chosen to prioritise more resources for women's and girls' shelters. Their work with support and protection for women and girls who are victims of violence is crucial to the ability of many to escape destructive relationships and abuse. During the term of office, the government has announced to allocate additional millions to strengthen the work. The role of civil society is incredibly important in this area as well as in many other policy areas. I would really like to thank you for the work of sports associations, organisations and other associations in areas such as equality, integration and gender equality. This work is invaluable and also a way to strengthen what is our common ground – that we get a Sweden that stays together. However, in order for all voluntary forces to be able to make the most of their contribution, political impetus is also needed. The former and the present government have carried out extensive work in recent years on new action plans, a national coordinator has produced proposals, various authorities and organisations have made a number of efforts at both national and regional level and we have strengthened legislation in this area. Despite all this, it is clear that more work remains to be done. Mr President, I would like to Successful gender equality work must be long-term. Changing inhibitory structures takes a long time. As the Swedish National Audit Office points out in its report, the work that has been done and the measures that have been taken for gender mainstreaming have been successful. It was good for the Alliance government to focus on the issue, but now we have to work on follow-up and on taking work into the next phase of further directives. A feminist policy is a crucial part of the sustainable construction of society. In addition to gender equality, I also have economic issues on my table. Economic development and the pursuit of an equal society are not issues that figure in parallel universes, but they are issues that are highly interlinked. Sweden has the world's first feminist government. In order for it not to stop at words, it is important that it is also visible in our budget. That is where politics is motivated and sets the tone for the future. How politics is shaped and with what words can be a mirror of the society in which we live. The structure of the budget is at the heart of government policy. For our feminist government, it is important that the whole budget process is permeated by a gender perspective. Gender budgeting means evaluating the gender impact of budgetary policy and integrating the gender perspective throughout the process. Gender equality will then become an active part of the problem solution so that we can choose the policy option that contributes to equality between women and men and girls and boys. The Government has allocated special resources from 2016 to evaluate and develop work on gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting. The conclusions and analyses presented in the evaluations will be re-established and used in the work carried out by ministries and authorities. The fact that economic development and gender equality are closely linked also becomes frighteningly clear when we look at the situation of vulnerable women. Economic independence is a prerequisite for equality. Nevertheless, women are often still economically dependent on men. The Crime Prevention Council has made a survey showing that almost half of those who have been subjected to recurrent violence lack the opportunity to raise enough of their own money. In real terms, this means that many vulnerable women have no opportunity to leave their partner. The government increased maintenance support by SEK 300 per child and month in last spring's budget – a support that has not been increased since 2006. It's a step along the way. However, the Green Party is also pushing the issue of tax deductions for single parents, which could make it easier for a woman to take the step of leaving her partner if she knows that she can still afford to support her children. Another aspect on the back of an unequal society is mental illness. Heavy night shifts at the retirement home, late evenings at the office, lower pay and hard pressure to live up to society's image of the perfect mother, wife and girlfriend provide one of the explanations for the overrepresentation in sick leave. Mental illness is the single largest cause of long-term illness among women. Mr President, I would like to The women of Sweden pay the price for our country's inequality with their own health. I am convinced that we agree across most party boundaries on many of the issues of equality – particularly in relation to men's violence against women. I look forward to continuing the work together. In the Sweden I want to see, no woman should be beaten to death, and no woman should be held back. The future wages of my daughters should not be measured as part of the men's. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-855	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's review, which we have mentioned here, has the title Government's gender equality initiative – coincidences or long-term improvements? So it is the Alliance's initiative that we are talking about. The Swedish National Audit Office says that it has not reviewed the efforts but whether they will be permanent. The effort has meant a great increase in resources, but at the same time the problem is that gender equality is cross-sectoral and that the responsibility ratio is difficult, they say. The review also shows that the Alliance government has managed to focus on gender equality but that there is a risk that the results achieved through the initiative will be lost. I, too, am concerned that the efforts we launched with the 2.6 billion will not be lasting. That is because we have a government today that I do not know takes equal opportunities responsibility. You talk about being a feminist government, but you don't have a coherent policy. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the results may not survive this venture. The results can disappear, and the government must influence the long-term. In what way does Janine Alm Ericson think that they now have a strategy for following up this gender equality initiative that the Alliance carried out during its years in power?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-860	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that we follow up on this. It was a great economic effort and an increase in ambition from the alliance government when you did this. As we have also noted in the debate here today, it is in many different ways and areas that we need to work on gender issues. Therefore, I do not think that we can have a single strategy to take these initiatives forward, but we must look at each of these initiatives separately and look at what it has given and what lessons can be learned. The Government's ambitions to have much more gender mainstreaming and budgeting will also take the work forward in a clearer and more long-term way. I was going to take the opportunity to answer another question that Mrs Pethrus put here earlier, namely what gender budgeting really means – you can hear so many nice words. This means taking steps to ensure that the gender impact of budgetary policy is visible in the light of budgetary decisions. This means that we are constantly getting feedback on whether the proposals on the table lead to more or less equality. This makes it easier to make the right decisions in the area of gender equality. It also involves redistributing income and expenditure in order to promote gender equality. If we start talking more about gender budgeting and have it with us, as we will now see in the government's budget proposals in the future, this will become clearer.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-865	Mr President, I would like to I know what gender budgeting is. I have been dealing with gender equality issues for over 30 years, so gender budgeting and all that we discuss at both international and Swedish level I know what it is. What I wonder is, where is the gender budgeting? Where can I read it clearly? When can I tell the citizens that we now have an equal opportunities budget? How can I clearly state this to the citizens? That would be interesting to know. When it comes to gender equality efforts, I feel worried. That is why I am unfortunately extending the debate, Mr President. What the government parties are doing today is listing things about gender equality. We have done this for many years; you can pick different things that are about gender equality. But what is the strategy? How do we take these 2.6 billions in the field of gender equality further into concrete and lasting action? These are my questions to the Green Party. Listing different things and different bets is easy. But in what way do you have a strategy to follow up the efforts made during the Alliance? We cannot let $2,6 billion of our tax dollars go to waste. Now we need to consolidate and ensure that there is a structure. What I am asking here today from the Green Party is: Is there a comprehensive strategy in the area of gender equality that the Swedish National Audit Office could then evaluate in the next step?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-869	Mr President, I would like to It has been clear that we do not have a comprehensive strategy for the Alliance's gender equality efforts. What I was trying to say clearly but which probably did not go forward was that we will, of course, learn from what has been done in order to move forward. As with the alliance government's efforts, this government shows that gender equality issues are incredibly important. This is demonstrated not least by the fact that it has been established that it is a feminist government. I do not think there are any simple answers, just as it has not done before. But part of what the Swedish National Audit Office mentioned is that there was no structure in the Alliance's efforts. Then it is important to look at how to get the elements that have been good and have proven to lead to positive effects in the work that are being carried forward so that there will be no temporary efforts but a focus for a sustainable gender equality policy that takes advantage of the experience gained.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-871	Mr President, I would like to Can justice go too far? Is it going too far when we women demand equal pay for work of equal value? Is it demanding too much when we say that we women should have the same access to power as men? When we women demand to own the right to our own bodies after brutal assaults and gang rapes where the men were released, are we out of step with the present? Mr President, I would like to On June 7, this year, Lotta, 41 years old, died after a brutal assault by a man with whom she had had a short - term relationship. Every year, an average of 17 women are killed by a man with whom they have or have had a relationship. In 2015, approximately 17,000 assault offences were reported where the offender was in close relationship with the victim. Unfortunately, this is not a new phenomenon. In 2015, 18,100 sexual offences were also reported. Last Friday came the verdict on the so-called ferry rape. The accused men were released when the woman was not considered drunk enough to have been in a particularly vulnerable situation and had voluntarily entered the cabin. The men's defense attorney also said that there had been a lot of group sex on the boat. These are only two cases, and there are two too many, which show that the right to our bodies, the bodies of women, is not self-evident and is in question. It is a culture that must be broken. I think we have all received at least one letter from citizens with the subject heading: I would like to take this opportunity to answer all these e-mail writers. Hello and thank you for your email and for raising this incredibly important question! I am not answering you because I want your vote, but because you know what we are doing and that there are parties and politicians working daily so that what happened to Lotta can never happen again. Men's violence against women is a major social problem. On a daily basis, women are physically, psychologically and sexually abused and sometimes so seriously that it leads to death. Thousands of women and children seek refuge on the country's women's shelters every year. Every fifth adult woman in Sweden has been subjected to serious sexual violence at some point in her life. Every ten children are forced to experience Dad's violence against their mother. Brå estimates that around 100 rapes are committed every day. Ninety-eight percent of the perpetrators are men and boys, and women in particular are the victims of rape. The Left Party has a policy of both increasing equality and combating men's violence against women. Here are some of our most important suggestions: We want the government to develop an action plan against rape and sexual violence with a view to identifying areas that need to be improved and proposing concrete measures. We want to combat destructive masculinity norms by actively and systematically working on issues of power and gender. It is one of the most important and effective ways to combat gender stereotypes, reduce sexualised violence and create the conditions for a more equal society. We want an accident commission to be set up to review every case where a woman has been murdered or beaten to death by a related man. 中 Strengthen the women's shelters! Women's hotlines have long needed both sufficient and continuous funding to be able to carry out work in the long term. In this year's state budget, money is set aside to provide women's shelters with more stable and long-term funding. It is the result of the Left Party's demands and negotiations with the government. Introduce a consent requirement and a negligent crime in rape law! With a negligent crime, we can get more convictions without lowering the demands for evidence. We can't have a society that says actions are okay because a man doesn't understand that a no is a no. . Women who are victims of violence by close relatives should be able to remain in their own home. We believe that more focus should be placed on the perpetrator and, above all, on the needs of children. It is the violator who commits crimes that are subject to general prosecution and should consequently bear the consequences.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-886	Mr President, I would like to The patriarchal violence and oppression that restrict women's freedom of action and control women's sexuality is an urgent issue. Men's violence against women is linked to the unequal distribution of power between the sexes in society. The skewed distribution of power makes it easier for men to use or threaten violence against women. It's a social control that cuts women's living space. The work to stop violence and provide protection and support to victims of violence must be based on the understanding that the violence has its roots in the current patriarchal structure of society. Women's oppression takes various forms, and different skills and measures are needed to respond to and combat it. On Friday 24 June, it is 17 years since Pela Atroshi was killed. Despite the fact that knowledge is greater today than it is then, society has not acted sufficiently forcefully. The knowledge of the oppression of honour has been extremely lacking. They need to be strengthened in several areas and areas. But things have also happened that have gone in the right direction, as I mentioned before. The resources for the girls' and women's shelters have been strengthened and permanentized thanks to the Left Party. It is no longer possible to marry if you are under 18 years of age. Forced marriage and misleading forced marriage are new crimes in the penal code. In order not to undermine the regulatory effect of the law and because such marriages conflict with fundamental human rights values, it is essential to be consistent in not recognising forced marriages or foreign children's marriages. Therefore, there is a need for national guidelines on how Swedish authorities should act when young people are married away outside the country's borders. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want to argue that the reforms of the former bourgeois government contributed to increased conditions for economic equality and point in particular to the job tax deduction. It's still a little special. I would argue that the bourgeois government gave us an equality policy backlash. In fact, the policy of the Alliance government's tax benches favoured well-paid men at the expense of many women. The income gap between men and women increased by 50 percent during Fredrik Reinfeldt's eight years as Prime Minister. In order to focus on gender equality and deliver concrete results, we want to establish a gender equality authority with responsibility and mandate to steer Sweden towards gender equality again. As many predicted, the closure of JämO, as an independent authority, and the establishment of the new Discrimination Ombudsman was a major failure for gender equality. All preventive work has, I would say, been set aside. DO has had to deal with individual discrimination cases. Well, that's a good thing, but it's totally inadequate. In 2005, Gertrud Åström proposed a gender equality agency in his study. This was not the case, for then, as is well known, the government of Reinfeldt took office. Earlier this year, the Gender Equality Survey presented its proposals, including the establishment of a gender equality agency. I hope that we will soon be able to see such a proposal from the government. We in the Left Party believe that feminism must take its rightful place in society, and one step along the way is an equality authority. One reason for this is to actually prove what the reality is. There is a great need for documentation, relevant studies and research. But it is also about the governance of society's gender equality efforts. A gender equality authority must be present in all sectors of society and affect both central government and municipal bodies and county councils. Equality and feminism, or lack thereof, affect all areas, such as health, welfare, labour market, pensions, justice and climate. Gender equality is not only an objective but also a means of achieving a society in which women and men really have the same power and opportunity to influence society and their own lives. Mr President, I would like to The pay gap between women and men is 13.2%. This means that women work for free an hour and three minutes each day. As usual, men have been paid all day. This has been the case since the '80s. My own daughter will be retired before the pay gap between women and men is closed. This wage discrimination is totally unacceptable. There must be an end to the unworthy wage discrimination against women that has been going on for decades after decades. A central issue is parental insurance and its individualisation. I welcome the fact that LO has now also agreed to this requirement. An important part of achieving gender equality is that women should be able to participate in working life under the same conditions and with the same conditions as men. Today, more women work part-time involuntarily, which means that the pay gap is in reality much larger. It is good that we have now established that full-time should be the norm. Wage mapping has been a good tool for influencing and changing inappropriate pay differentials between women and men. In 2009, the bourgeois government removed the requirement for companies to make annual wage surveys. It changed to that these should only be done every three years. Now, following an announcement by the Riksdag, this government has proposed that salary mapping be carried out again each year. That's good. Mr President, I would like to In the Swedish model, wage negotiations are conducted by the parties in contract negotiations. It's a model we care about. However, we note that the structural pay gap between male-dominated and female-dominated occupations has not been disrupted despite the objectives set in several contract movements. It has become clear that the interpretation of the so-called mark by the State Mediation Institute, i.e. the percentage of the pay gap set by the industrial negotiations, is part of the problem. The Left Party believes that the role of the Mediation Institute must be clarified, so that it is clear that responsible wage formation involves equalising the structural pay gap between women-dominated occupations and male-dominated occupations. It is not reasonable that labour market balance means that too low paid women in welfare and service jobs are always expected to keep a distance from more male-dominated professions. This is precisely what is essentially structural wage discrimination. We cannot have a state authority that opposes equal pay between men and women. The Left Party questions that the Mediation Institute should have as its main directive to maintain industry as a wage leader. We want to commission the Mediation Institute to work actively for equal pay. Otherwise, the Mediation Institute contributes to the exploitation of women's work. When women who are already deep in the pay pyramid are pushed even further down by profit-seeking companies, it is unworthy that government agencies play along instead of being the important counter-force that one should be. I support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 8.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-901	Mr President, I would like to Normally, I do not think it is appropriate to raise individual cases as a basis for discussion in this House, but since it is now being raised from the Left side, I must nevertheless touch on the case of Lotta. Now we will leave our committee and rather go into the area of justice. I find it remarkable that the Left Party wants to claim to be the ones who are doing the most to ensure that what happened to Lotta will not happen again when the fact is that the man who broke Lotta about life has been convicted several times before and the fact is that the Left Party advocates half-time release and reduced penalties in so many different directions. My first question to Rossana Dinamarca, Mr President, is whether, in the light of what she has said here today and as a promise to all those who wonder what to do to prevent what happened to Lotta from happening again, she is prepared to fight internally within the Left Party so that one can finally let go of her naive belief that early release can make a difference. My second question is: what can be done to ensure that persons convicted of aggravated assault or other serious violent crimes are not released if there is a risk of relapse?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-905	Mr President, I would like to I said in my speech several things that I believe and think are important to prevent men's violence against women. It is partly about efforts once it has taken place, i.e. investing in women's and girls' shelters, and partly about the fact that we need to tackle what is the big problem, namely that men believe they have the right to women's bodies. We will not get to that just by having a little more severe punishment, but what we need is a judicial system, from the police officers who receive the report to the courts that will then judge, who understand that women actually own the right to their own body. For that is what we see falling time after time: the judiciary treats men as if they were stupid in the head, as if they do not understand that a no is a no. That is the fundamental problem in our judicial system, and it is this culture that we need to break.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-908	Mr President, I would like to There are problems in many parts of society, absolutely. But at least I see that not all men always need to be reprimanded. At least I think we should definitely ensure that when we know that someone, whether it be a man or a woman, resorts to violence, takes the right to other people's bodies, we should not treat that person mildly. But that is what we are advocating here. Instead of concrete measures against concrete offenders, we talk about efforts to be made towards all men in general. I think you have to realise that you should also work concretely. In an earlier debate during the day, I mentioned another example of concrete cases. It was in a change of line with Christina Höj Larsen, and what I was talking about then was what you want to do about all the women who say that they do not feel safe in asylum homes, because there is a surplus of preferably men from countries with much greater problems regarding how you look at women who continue to take liberties with women's bodies and other people at these accommodations. The answer I received there and then was that it should be the same kind of action that applies to women's violence in general, and reference was made to women's shelters. My question is whether Rossana Dinamarca shares the view that the women who have fled to Sweden in the faith and the hope of being able to live in peace and quiet here will again be banished to escape and hide in shelters, or if you are actually prepared to take action against the men who come here and continue to oppress women in asylum homes.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-913	Mr President, I would like to Paula Bieler from the Swedish Democrats does what is very often done and says that it is not all men. No. Did I say that's all men? But I'm saying men actually have a responsibility. When 98% of the perpetrators of violence against women are men, it cannot be said that it is not the responsibility of men. Yes, it's men's responsibility! It is the responsibility of men, and that is why we must also have legislation that changes attitudes. That is why the Left Party is in favour of consent regulation in sex crime legislation. We want to introduce an intransigent crime in relation to rapes so that we can have more convicted of such crimes so that it will not be as in the case of ferry rapes where a woman was trapped in a cabin with several men, that one can only say: I did not understand that she did not want to have sex. When it comes to the women who have testified about how they have been abused and abused in asylum homes, I think what is remarkable is that neither the Migration Agency's staff nor the police have taken it seriously. That is what I think is the fundamental problem we see right through our entire Swedish legal society: that men's violence against women is not taken seriously and that men are constantly getting away with it. That is the fundamental problem in Swedish culture and in the Swedish legal society.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-917	Mr President, I would like to Because Rossana Dinamarca referred to the Moderates, I couldn't help but take a line. I would like to say that the Alliance Government made a great deal of reforms that strengthened women's economic equality in the labour market and that strengthened women's freedom at all in the labour market. Rossana Dinamarca didn't take that up. Firstly, we decided on one of the biggest gender equality initiatives – 2.6 billion – that has ever been made here in the Swedish Parliament. Most of that money went to work against men's violence against women. To say that the previous government did nothing is therefore a lie, Mr President. We also carried out other reforms which the government, with the help of the Left, is now withdrawing. They thus avoid opportunities for women to enter the labour market. We have, for example, the job tax credit, which has increased economic freedom. For example, it has given a nurse, a police officer, and a midwife a monthly salary more a year, and that is not a little bit. But this is what you want to roll back. The RUT deduction that you hate so much, you want to make it worse. But thanks to this deduction, women who work have been able to work more. You don't like that either. We stand for equality, and we stand for equality between men and women. Where is the Left when adjusting the penalty rates for crimes committed by men? How do they stand there? Do they vote for harsher punishment, or do they vote against it?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-923	Mr President, I would like to When we talk about economic equality, Erik Andersson from the Moderates once again wants to argue that it is the job tax deduction that has made it more equal. RUT has been counting on this, and the OECD has been counting on this. What comes to the conclusion is that the job tax credit is what has increased income inequality, not only between men and women, but also between the poor and the rich. It is the job tax deduction that has caused the gaps to increase most rapidly in OECD countries. That's what you want to get credated for now. In what way? What evidence do you have? There's no one saying you're right. On the contrary! The job tax deduction, no matter what you want to fantasize about, favored well-paid, wealthy and wealthy men. They were the only winners of the job tax deduction – no women. In addition, during your reign, Sweden slipped from first place as the world's most equal country to fourth place. How can you claim to have been some kind of knight of equality?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-927	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that the Alliance Government invested more than any other government in the field of gender equality. As we heard earlier in the debate, I note that the Government of Persson may have invested EUR 20 million in increasing gender equality. The Alliance government invested 2.6 billion. The most important issue in the initiative is how this government will ensure that the good examples can be lasting. It is very interesting to know how the Left Party views itself to that. The former alliance government forced against violence in close relations and appointed a national coordinator. The coordinator made some fifty proposals that were submitted to the government, but we have not yet heard how the government should act on those proposals. The Left Party says a lot, but how do you really act when it comes to equality between men and women? What are you doing for the vulnerable women in the suburbs? Tell me!
i-c1e82354135ec07b-931	Mr President, I would like to I have heard several of the bourgeois representatives mention the money invested during their time in the government. But it's not just the sum of money that's important, it's what the sum gets, right? When you talk about economic equality, the result has been that the income gap has increased and the pay gap has increased during the bourgeois government. That's the outcome. It doesn't matter how much money you say you put in this when the outcome was bad. Then you did the wrong thing. The job tax deduction was the main reason why it happened. Then there is the question of people in vulnerable areas. One of the most important measures to tackle violence against women – this is something that Brå shows – is to look at economically vulnerable areas where men's violence against women is more widespread. Of course, violence exists in all social classes, but it is in those areas that it is most common. Therefore, it is extremely important to invest in people's being given the opportunity to control their lives. They're supposed to have good jobs with fair terms and good pay. This leads to greater equality. Unfortunately, there has been a blue government that has increased the gaps in society. With that, we see the consequences as well. We need a community that stays together. Then we must invest in reducing differences. The Left Party does much of that in the negotiations on the budget with the government.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-936	Mr President, I would like to I listened with interest to Rossana Dinamarcas's speech to hear how she is discussing the issue of honour-related violence, not least in view of the fact that the issue has been debated internally in the Left Party. I and many with me, including many in the Left Party, see how the issues are being debated more and more in Sweden and become increasingly important for us to relate to so that we can build an inclusive and fairer Sweden in the future, where we do not let down, not least, young girls and even guys who live in great vulnerability due to honour-related violence and oppression. Rossana Dinamarca touched on the matter a little. Nevertheless, in the light of the debate that has been held, I would like to ask her to develop the reasoning on how the Left Party views the issue. A party colleague of Rossana Dinamarca, Zeliha Dagli, wrote in Aftonbladet earlier this year that there are many women who are very worried about the development of Husby and the threat to gender equality there. Isn't Husby part of Sweden? Doesn't the rules apply here? Another woman, a mother of two from Afghanistan, was quoted in the Expressen, where she said that Islamists and fundamentalists tell the young people that they have to veil themselves and that Swedish food is In Swedish suburbs, the climate is becoming increasingly hostile to women," says Rossana Dinamarcas's party colleague Amineh Kakabaveh in a debate article. When the Left Party would respond to this, it was said that a projection of the suburbs increases the fragmentation and that it would be generalisations and rumours. I would like Rossana Dinamarca to clarify how the Left Party views this issue in reality.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-940	Mr President, I would like to Just as I replied to Erik Andersson earlier, it is important that we work for a society that stays together, that we work to reduce poverty and divides, which enable everyone to live dignified lives. That is the key to reducing disparities, which is also the reason for the oppression of women. As I said in my speech, there are various forms of female oppression. What we call honour violence is what we call more than one involved. It could be a father, a brother, other siblings or even the mother. What we must also see is that such violence is complicated. It may also be that the mother involved is also subject to oppression when she in turn practices it against her child. It's not that simple. What I am opposed to, however, is the description of Husby being like Afghanistan and bearded men in dresses. I am strongly opposed to such generalizations. I think we should take the problems seriously, but we should see them as part of the patriarchal structures. Women's oppression is global. There are problems here, and there are problems everywhere. We should not think that something has come in recent times. That's the description I'm opposed to. But the need to know how different forms of female oppression are expressed is self-evident.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-945	Mr President, I would like to Let us look at the statements made by leading left-wing parties, on the one hand by Rossana Dinamarca, on the other hand by the party secretary and on the other by another member of the parliamentary group. They would comment on what two party colleagues in particular made clear to you. Zeliha Dagli and Amineh Kakabaveh described the situation as that many women are very concerned about the development of Husby and the threat to gender equality. Zeliha Dagli wanted to apply for asylum in Sweden, to get away from the area she lives in. Amineh Kakabaveh said that in Swedish suburbs, the climate is becoming increasingly hostile to women. Then Rossana Dinamarca and two other colleagues replied that they are not prepared to pretend that women's oppression, homophobia and fundamentalism are reserved for a single religion or only in the suburbs. Yes, that is very true. This has nothing to do with any individual religion, nor is it something that exists only in the suburbs. But nobody has said that – at least nobody, I think, in the Left Party. The question is rather: The Left Partyists who point out that this kind of oppressive structures exist in suburbs in Sweden, does Rossana Dinamarca believe that they contribute to the spread of reputation and generalisations? I find it hard to see that they do. Rather, it is just as Rossana Dinamarca said – that honour oppression exists throughout the world. Yeah, but then it's also in Husby, isn't it? Or is it not in Husby but in all other places? Please make this clear! Do you contribute to the spread of reputation if you point to jihadism and honour oppression in suburbs in Sweden?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-949	Mr President, I would like to I think I answered that in my last line. It's everywhere. I don't know if I said any place is the exception. What I object to, as I also said in my previous line, is part of the generalizations. When you describe it as a beard man, we do not associate with Fredrik Malm or with bearded hipsters who sit on the south and drink coffee, but we will form thought figures that are about the men in the suburbs. I think it is deeply problematic if we allow ourselves to imagine that women's oppression exists only in certain parts of our society. Indeed, there have been reports that say that this oppression is only in the suburbs, and I think it is a problem. I think that we must tackle the oppression of women wherever it appears and regardless of the form it takes. We must have knowledge of it, but nobody benefits from the kind of generalisations that we have seen in the debate.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-953	Mr President, I would like to With the adoption of the Alliance's proposal by the Riksdag in 2009, Sweden received just that. Sweden got a coherent both ambitious and long-term climate and energy policy that boosted the Swedish climate transition and the expansion of renewable energy. With the adoption of the bill, Sweden went from having a climate target of – 4 per cent to 2012 to having a high target that Sweden's emissions by 2020 should be at least 40 per cent lower than they were in 1990 from activities outside the EU's emissions trading system. In addition, the vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet was firmly established by 2030, and a long-term focus for Sweden by 2050 to have a sustainable and resource-efficient energy supply without net emissions was pointed out. On the basis of these objectives, and on the basis of the long-term orientation, the Alliance government in its time conducted not only an ambitious but also successful policy that produced good actual results. The emission reduction rate nearly doubled, the production and use of renewable energy increased record-time and Sweden first experienced an environmental car boom and then a super environmental car boom. At the same time as Sweden's emissions decreased at a rapid rate, our economy grew, and it grew considerably. Through this combination, Sweden took on the role of a pioneer country. We showed that declining emissions do not have to conflict with jobs and growth at all, but, on the contrary, can go hand in hand with smart policies. On the path of the Alliance, Sweden therefore needs to continue. All policies need to be analysed on the basis of objectives and knowledge. Therefore, in 2009 Parliament decided not only on new targets for climate and energy policy, but also on a control post in 2015. Mr President, I would like to This debate is a de l of this control post in 2015 – in the first place, when today's debate is dealing with a report dealing with the government's letter in connection with the 2015 control post and its accompanying motions. The report also deals with a wide range of motions from the general period of exercise, which all relate to climate policy. In its letter, the Government reports its assessment of first and foremost how climate policy develops in relation to the goal that Sweden should have reduced emissions by 40 per cent by 2020. The government's assessment is that this objective will be achieved. That's a good rating for the Alliance's climate policy. The good rating is reinforced by the fact that the three energy policy objectives for 2020 have either already been achieved or are well on track to be achieved. By 2020, the share of renewable energy shall be at least 50% of total energy consumption, and in transport the share shall be at least 10%. These two goals the Alliance was able to check off several years ago. The third energy policy target of 20% more efficient energy use by 2020 also looks to Sweden to reach. Mr President, I would like to The alliance got in place new ambitious goals and thus delivered good results based on these. Regrettably, the present government has failed. Prior to the elections, the message from the government parties was to speed up the climate work. In practice, it has become exactly the opposite. Last year, Swedish emissions fell by only 1 per cent, and emissions from road transport did not fall at all. It's very troubling. Mr President, I would like to However, the government is about to get a solid and obviously much needed handle. This is when, in the parliamentary environmental policy preparation on Wednesday, we finally report on our proposal for a climate policy framework with an associated strategy for a comprehensive and long-term climate policy. I am very happy and frankly also quite proud that we are six parties that have managed to agree in the preparation on a comprehensive and ambitious proposal – a proposal dealing with both the forms of climate policy and its objectives and content. The preparation's proposals are largely based on the Alliance's policy and the long-term approach already laid down in 2009. The latter is made clear by the preparation's proposal that Sweden should have no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045 at the latest. On the way there, two new milestones are proposed: for the non-contracting sector, emissions by 2030 should have been reduced by 63% and by as much as 75% by 2040. Furthermore, the transport sector's emissions are proposed to decrease by 70% by 2030, which means concreteisation but also broadening the Alliance's vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. If these objectives are adopted, they will be, to my knowledge, the most ambitious goals that any country in the world has so far set itself. It sends a clear signal that Sweden is really prepared to take its share of the responsibility for achieving the Paris Agreement's goal of keeping global warming well below two degrees of yours and preferably for one and a half degrees. The final report contains not only proposals for ambitious objectives but also a battery of concrete measures to speed up climate action, not least in the transport sector. Rapid reduction of transport emissions is crucial for Sweden's ability to reduce emissions in the long term. That must be a self-evident priority for each government. This is because the transport sector accounts for about one third of Sweden's total emissions and about half of the emissions from the non-contracting sector. This is also the main reason why the preparation has chosen to present a specific target for this particular sector. Mr President, I would like to An ambitious climate policy is far from just about ambitious goals. At least as important is how the objectives are achieved. For the Moderates, it is an obvious starting point that Swedish emissions should fall with retained or preferably strengthened competitiveness and without leading to increased emissions in other countries. I am pleased that these starting points are not only the Moderates or the Alliance, but also the S and the MP have supported these starting points. For we six parties that support the final report of the Environment Target Committee are clear in our proposal. These starting points should be obvious when Sweden formulates its national climate policy. For the government parties, this should in fact mean reconsidering their current policies. The policy of the Red Green Government has so far weakened the competitiveness of Swedish companies. Mr President, I would like to Another starting point for moderate climate policy is that it should be cost-effective. Part of the moderate DNA is, of course, about showing respect for taxpayers' money and always striving to pursue a policy that produces as much results as the opportunity per invested tax chandelier. Cost-effective policies require flexibility in how policies can be designed and how the objectives set can and can be achieved. It is therefore a good thing that the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposals contain a great deal of flexibility. Today, Sweden, like many other countries, uses so-called flexible mechanisms that enable cost-effective emission reductions in other countries. Unfortunately, the current government does not claim to the same extent as today to use this cost-effective tool to meet the Swedish climate target by 2020. At the same time, the Government's ambition is unclear, and if the Government wants to work on the basis of a different objective than that decided by the Riksdag and which is valid until 2020, it needs to reasonably return to the Riksdag. More on this point is contained in the Alliance's reservation No 24, to which I hereby request approval. Mr President, I would like to I also call for the approval of reservation No 18, which is about working to link the EU emissions trading scheme, the EU ETS, with the emissions trading system of other countries and regions. The EU ETS is the EU's most important instrument for reducing emissions and is a fundamentally well-functioning system that needs to be progressively strengthened and should also cover more sectors. Mr President, I would like to With S and MP in government, Swedish climate policy has lost pace. Emissions are falling but not at all at the same rate as before. Last year, for example, the proportion of environmental cars decreased. Now it is time for the government to move from words to action and present concrete measures that can reduce Swedish emissions without lowering the Swedish economy. What the government needs to do, among other things, is deliver long-term stable conditions to increase the use of biofuels and get in place a good bonus – malus system that rewards truly climate-smart cars. In addition, I recommend that the House take note of the many other reservations expressed by the Alliance and Moderates in this report, which all suggest how an ambitious, effective and results-oriented climate policy can be implemented, but for the time to come I am therefore only in favour of reservations 18 and 24.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-973	Mr President, I would like to We are debating climate policy today. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 14. What strikes me is the uncertainty with which many of today's debaters paint a doomsday scenario of the great threats of our time. I usually note that there are many threats in our world: war, Islamic terror, mass unemployment, a well-being that goes on its knees and of course also a climate threat. However, with regard to the climate threat, there is a remarkable cross-security. I note that we have always had a changing climate on this planet. In the 1970s there was a fear of cooling, and from the 1980s there was more talk about the ozone layer and global warming. What really controls the climate? What determines the global average temperature and weather of thousands upon thousands of places on earth? Of course, it's the sun's incoming rays. They change sometimes – the sun has its cycles. It is the composition of the atmosphere, the oscillations of the oceans, or is it a chaotic process that we cannot really predict? The answer is probably that it is all of this. We should therefore perhaps be a little humble in the face of the complexity of the issue. That is not to say that man does not affect the climate. However, the question is how much and how sensitive the climate is to CO2 emissions. How do oceans and the atmosphere respond to man's disturbances? The question is also what we really know and why the models that have been developed so often fail. Why are the ice growing now when you previously thought they would be gone by now? Why did we get a warm-up break and more? Does the Swedish Parliament control the climate? Yes, you sometimes get that feeling when you listen to some members, from the Moderates to the Green Party. Swedish climate policy has about the same starting point as Donald Trumps's election campaign: It is based on emotions. You paint a doomsday scenario, you set goals and then you start competing for who can come up with the highest figure. If you then reach the goal, it will in any case not make any difference. Even if we kill our industry and our transport sector, emissions of CO2 gases in the world will not decrease by more than any per mille. Nevertheless, the other parties are trying to apply a picture that through high emission reduction targets, which go considerably further than the rest of the world, even the longest in the world, we will make a difference to the climate. Mr President, I would like to It is easy to show that emission reductions in Sweden do not matter from a global perspective. On the other hand, we can do great damage to Sweden and our population by pursuing a foolish climate policy. In a short time, the two of the heaviest bodies of socio-economic assessment have totally condemned Swedish climate policy. The Environmental Objectives Committee has already been condemned. Criticism is almost identical to that put forward by my party in this House in recent years. In the K Onjunkturinstitutet's referral to the Environmental Objectives Committee, which included at least all parties except the Swedish Democrats, one can read that a socio-economic analysis of the goals is missing – yes, there is one, but it is completely substandard – and that there is nothing to say that ambitious initiatives create new jobs. Some jobs disappear and are replaced by others. The Economic Institute also criticises the sectoral targets, such as a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030. If the objective is to reduce CO2 emissions, individual sectoral targets that reduce flexibility are counterproductive. Then came the next sawing, this time from the Financial Policy Council, which states that Swedish climate policy is expensive and ineffective. According to the proposals announced will be even more expensive for no or very little benefit. The Financial Policy Council also rejects targets for CO2-free vehicle fleet and wishes that the focus should be on how to reduce emissions globally. Mr President, I would like to The focus here is on the basic problem of Swedish climate policy. In some kind of eagerness to feel good and good, both the red-green and the Alliance have made it a cornerstone of Swedish climate policy that Sweden should take precedence. By adopting the most restrictive and costly policy in the world, we want to influence others to do the same. Unfortunately, there is no evidence whatsoever that this works. We ourselves account for about 1 per mil of emissions. Together with the European Union, we stand for a tenth. In 15 years' time, the EU's figure may be 5%. We can therefore note that both our climate policy and that of the rest of the European Union have been completely unsuccessful, as emissions have increased very strongly during this period of time. The focus continues to be on some kind of competition in being good and causing companies and population higher costs. At the same time, our country and the whole of Europe are wrestling with low growth and high unemployment. Does anyone really think that everyone else wants to follow this recipe for success? I don't think so. What we are in danger of doing, however, is contributing to the fact that other countries actually emit more through so-called carbon leakage. High carbon taxes in Sweden create incentives for companies to move their production to other countries, where requirements and taxes are so low that incentives to reduce emissions are greatly reduced. The report Climate policy and leadership, which was produced during the previous term of office in the framework of the Expert Group on Environmental Studies, also clarifies that high carbon taxes lead to increased emissions in other countries. Mr President, I would like to Sweden would be the valet of a more sensible, pragmatic climate policy where the focus is on reducing emissions where they are useful from a global perspective rather than staring blindly at one of the Western smallest emitters in order to feel a little extra good. Climate policy must have a global perspective in which, as the Council of Finance Ministers does, the focus is on reducing the use of coal globally rather than shifting the consumption of petrol and diesel to other countries. This is best done by promoting research and technological development and not by even more regulations, more sectoral targets and higher percentages or, for that matter, by taxing Swedish rural areas to death. We shall strive for a policy that limits CO2 emissions. We agree on that. Then one might wonder to what extent it limits temperature increases. We don't know that today. Maybe it does. We also have oil dependence. It also has geopolitical consequences. Having said that, we must understand that Swedish oil consumption is a gutter in a global perspective. We're influencing the margin. We must also understand that global oil consumption will not stop just because we in Sweden make it more expensive to consume petrol. This consumption will continue until there are alternatives that are not significantly more expensive. It is positive that Sweden's electricity generation is almost carbon neutral. This, among other things, makes Sweden's net contribution to increased carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere very modest. We want to preserve and develop nuclear energy. It also opens up for electrification of parts of the transport sector within a number of years when technology makes this more cost-effective. Against this background, it is regrettable to see that S, MP, C, KD and M want to continue to sabotage the Swedish energy market through an extension of the electricity certification system. Mr President, I would like to Let me make a proposal on how this can be further developed. Let's invest in our Swedish forest! Let us store even more coal in Swedish wood! It's working demonstrably. Then the forest will be felled – exactly. But the long-term use of coal can be achieved by building houses and other wooden structures. Imagine, for example, exporting wooden houses to Britain, which has many poorly insulated brick houses. With Swedish wooden houses we bind coal, and the British need for fossil fuels for heating is reduced. It will not give us any points in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's statistics, but it will really do us any good. And it creates jobs and export revenue. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are responsible for a policy in which Sweden meets its international commitments regarding greenhouse gas emissions. As a conservative and responsible party, we want Sweden to play its part. On the other hand, we are opposed to ineffective measures that strike against the Swedish economy without doing any good.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-997	Mr President, I would like to I understood that Martin Kinnunen believes that all parties' climate policy, apart from the Swedish Democrats, is based on emotion. The climate policy of the Moderates and the Alliance is based on science. And science is quite clear that we are facing a serious climate challenge. I note that SD, on the other hand, is largely based on what Donald Trump is basing his policy on – denial. You close your eyes to science. We do not want global warming to break record month after month, climate change to have an impact on all continents, and climate change to reinforce and fuel new conflicts. People are forced to move because of the consequences of climate policy. Then, of course, we need to discuss how Sweden can shape an effective environmental and climate policy. I am happy to have a debate with Martin Kinnunen on this. I note that he does not present much of what the Swedish Democrats' climate policy is all about. I got nuclear power and forest at the end. And there are two good elements to a climate policy. There are two elements that are important in Moderate climate policy. But that's not enough. Martin Kinnunen also said in his speech that the climate challenge requires a global perspective. I very much agree with that. But the Swedish Democrats are a nationalist party, a party that wants as little cooperation as possible and does not want Sweden to be a member of the EU. The EU is our most important environmental organisation. It is an organisation that gives us the strength to influence the rest of the world to also take responsibility for climate policy. If the Swedish Democrats think that the climate challenge is global, how should you work for the rest of the world's countries to take their share of responsibility, Martin Kinnunen?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1003	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg finally came into the global perspective. That's what's fundamental here. This also shows the problem. We're a small country in the world. We are not in a position to reduce emissions at global level ourselves. We can work internationally and try to achieve legally binding emission reduction agreements with other countries. We're a long way from that today, I'm afraid. But we have to keep working towards it. It's the main tool. We can also work on our research and development to find instruments so that other countries can reduce their emissions and not repeat the mistakes that rich countries have made in the past. But the Moderates and the other parties do not have the global perspective. For example, you have now made proposals in the Environmental Objectives Committee that we should reduce emissions by 85% to 2045. That sounds great. But it is a typical example of something based on emotion. There has been no serious socio-economic analysis of what it will cost or what benefits it will bring. That is indeed the most ambitious emission reduction target that exists in the world. But for what? And at what cost? What's it gonna cost? The Moderates and the other parties persist with sectoral cases that have been condemned by research. The Council of Finance Ministers has condemned it. The Institute of Economics has condemned it. But Johan Hultberg obviously knows better. I wonder, why?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1009	Mr President, I would like to The environmental target committee's proposal is based on science, on what research says it is necessary for Sweden and the world to do in order to limit global warming. The Committee's proposals are based on the Paris Agreement's ambitions to keep global warming well below two degrees and with a view to below one and a half degrees. Research says that in that case global emissions need to be virtually zero by the end of this century or preferably by the middle of this century and then become negative. Then we must draw conclusions from it. What should Sweden's responsibility be? On this basis, we have formulated the proposed objectives presented by the Environmental Objectives Committee. These objectives are based on a number of starting points that I tried to explain in my speech. It is about doing so while maintaining competitiveness, without our emissions moving elsewhere. The objectives must therefore not be seen in isolation. They must be seen with the conditions and conditions that I as a moderate stand for, and which I am pleased that we have had an impact on in the Environmental Objectives Committee. The Moderates think that Sweden should be a pioneer country. For us, however, it is not just about setting high objectives, but precisely about how to achieve them. For the Moderates, it is a matter of reconciling rapidly declining emissions with economic growth. This is when I think that Sweden can take on the role of a pioneer country. I think that other countries want to follow the Swedish example if they see that you do not have to choose between declining emissions or prosperity but that you can get both. That is why we need to develop an effective environmental and climate policy. I hope that we can have a bigger debate on it in the future, rather than discussing whether climate change exists or not. I regret that the Swedish Democrats have not made any progress in their development but are still at square one.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1014	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg comes with many fine words. He talks about maintaining competitiveness and growth, despite the fact that we as an isolated country in the world should pursue the most extremist climate policy in the world. I wonder how it's gonna go. There is no analysis why a country should take the lead in pursuing a completely different policy from the rest of the world and not lose out on competitiveness. It doesn't exist. There are some calculations in the Environmental Objectives Committee's draft, which came earlier. There is talk of everything from 1% of GDP to 12%. 1 percent of bnp is 42 billion. Thus, this goal may cost hundreds of billions of dollars. Have you considered the reasonableness of that, Johan Hultberg? Like I said, that's a lot of nice words. But it's very much money for very little good. All these words just ring false.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1017	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 16 and 24, although of course I support all our reservations. But for time winning, I refrain from acquiescence to them. Earlier today we have debated new asylum rules that the government wants to introduce, rules that violate both the right to asylum and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The flow of refugees that we see in the world today is a small breeze compared to the flow of refugees that we will see if climate change is allowed to continue. I think the Swedish Democrats should think about this. If there is any party that should be the biggest climate fighters, it is the Swedish Democrats. It gets a little tragic when you listen to Martin Kinnunen. If there is any party that is acting confidently without taking into account research and that plays on emotions, then I know exactly what party it is. It's Martin Kinnunen's own party. If there is anything on which our policy is based, it is research. If there is something we can see where Sweden is forerunner, it is precisely that we are able to reduce our emissions while increasing our growth. That is something for which we are given a great deal of praise internationally. Doomsday prophecies probably come from the Swedish Democrats themselves. This morning I came home from a trip to Chernobyl. It is a journey that cannot be described; it must be experienced for itself. Just as the people in Chernobyl's vicinity did not understand the extent of the effects after the accident – the enemy was actually invisible that time – probably not enough people understand the extent of the climate effects. Again, the enemy is invisible. I am very pleased that we have now, together, six parties in the Swedish Parliament, within the framework of the M iljömålsföreningen, also found out which Sweden's future climate goals should be. We are building on the climate and energy agreement entered into by the Alliance in 2009. In the space of two weeks we have had an energy settlement and a climate settlement that builds on this. Both as a signatory and as a center party, I am very proud to be involved in highlighting and sewing these broad agreements together. I would like to pay tribute to the parties involved in taking responsibility for these agreements. For us in the Center Party, it is self-evident to take responsibility. We may be a party of 70 per mille, but we are a party with great influence over politics. The Center Party is a party that always takes responsibility in difficult situations. The monitoring station that provides the framework for this debate is a follow-up to the agreement reached by the Alliance on climate and energy issues in 2009. It is also a clear value indicator of the year of the Alliance in power. The result is clear. We set the world's toughest climate targets in 2009, and we overdo them. We are already well above the targets we set for 2020, for example on the transport side. It is therefore also particularly gratifying that six parties have now agreed to raise the flag again and set tough climate targets. It also allows us to leave the unconstructive discussion about who has the highest goal, the lowest goal and the target formulations. We can leave that to climate populists and climate deniers, and then they can punch each other in the head and fight about it while the rest of us can go on and debate what makes a real difference, that is, instruments and how we can get the most effective climate benefit for the money. The world needs to change. The world is going to change. The only question is whether we want to be winners or losers in it. Winners will be those who see opportunities, which invest, which combine growth with reduced emissions, who understand that the future economy is circular and who are able to build their social structure. That is why it is so important that we in Sweden go ahead. Then our companies will switch. Then we can export. Then we can create climate benefits in other countries and deliver the solutions that provide jobs here and reduced emissions elsewhere when the rest of the world starts to understand and follow us. Just as Johan Hultberg said, it is not by setting tough goals that we go ahead. But it is by achieving the tough goals and making them more economic growth that other countries view with envy what we succeed with in Sweden. That is also why we have such a prominent position internationally. That is why the alliance government's climate policy was so appreciated. We see that the government is doing some good things. It would be dishonest to say otherwise. Although K Limatklivet can be discussed from an efficiency point of view, it has delivered quite a few charging poles. The Centre's requirement to remove VAT on small-scale electricity generation is now being implemented. The government continues its tradition of protecting small vulnerable countries in the climate negotiations. I think that's good. But we in the Center Party also differ significantly from the government. We're campaigning for green tax exchange. It is based on more taxes being collected from environmentally harmful activities while reducing taxes on things that are good and that we want more of, for example, work. It's a pretty simple principle. We see that this profile has been adopted by more parties in our alliance community. The Green Party has previously been quite a supporter of green tax exchange. But since it came into government, it has changed. Green tax exchange was the first to be a red tax increase in which it chose to increase taxes on labour. Now it has gone over to a type of grey – or perhaps even black – tax shock where one also chooses to increase taxes on what is renewable, what is good for the environment. I find that very hard to understand. You blame most of it. It blames the EU, the flows of refugees and the different methods of calculation. It is not an excuse that is considered too bad, and it is always someone else's fault. When investigations are set up, it seems that either the instructions have been misunderstood – they may have been substandard from the beginning – or the investigations are delayed. Bonus – Malus was first investigated with the investigation into the fossil independent vehicle fleet. But another study was set up, which came up with a proposal that primarily benefits diesel cars and had not even taken into account the climate challenge. I think you've missed something when you've written the directives. In autumn 2014, the government said that the obligation is to be introduced on 1 January 2016. It will now come sometime during its term of office. We'll see about that. It is also a kilometre tax that would break the forest industry completely. Looks like someone's got bad luck with how you think. I understand that you need a coordinating minister for that; that is no wonder. The only problem is it's going to be wrong. The Minister for Energy, who became the Minister for Coordination, now ends up with the Prime Minister's Committee. Climate issues end up at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The rest will be a butt-cut environmental department. I think thought is really good. But of all the decisions – both good and bad that the government has made – I think this is the most fatal mistake that has been made. Separating ministers who have commitment, drive and officials' knowledge of these issues leads to thinning them and smudging them all over the government. As a result, there will be less pressure to put hard pressure on negotiations with other ministers. Everyone will want money for their areas. I think we will see that in the future. We in the Center Party have many clear proposals for this change. We know how to make bonuses – the Malus proposal for a real environmental proposal where clean cars get bonuses and dirty cars pay. We know how to get a strategy for a bioeconomy. It's fun that the Environmental Objectives Committee is now lifting up precisely that kind of things and supporting our proposal. We thank you for that, and we hope, of course, that the government will pick it up. We want cars to be energy declared. We want to invest in renewable energy. We want a reduction obligation for biofuels in order to bring more of that into the market. We want to make it easier for the forest to become a real climate benefit. By tying the coal in the woods, we get real stuff in place. The list can be made as long as possible. But perhaps the most important thing is not that the Center Party has been the leading force in Swedish environmental policy in recent decades in terms of real environmental performance, but the most important thing is that we can now, thanks to the M iljömålsföreningen, actually lift our eyes, stop looking back and together continue forward. We agree on what to do and where to reach. Then we can start fighting about how to get there. I think that is much more constructive. Therefore, I hope that the government will pick up the proposals of the M illjömålsföreningen and ensure that they end up here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1043	Mr President, I would like to It's interesting to listen to Rickard Nordin. He focuses on what is the problem with Swedish environmental and energy policy. We have a centre party and an environmental party that has disproportionate influence. It doesn't matter what government we get. It seems to be about the same energy and environmental policy. It's a big problem. Nordin talked about research. He felt that his party was good at following it and that another party was less good. I wonder, for my part, whether the Center Party has listened to the Institute of Economic Development or the Council of Finance when they have condemned the work of the Environment Target Committee. There was talk here about employment and growth, and it sounded a bit like Donald Trump again – make Sweden great, or something like that. "Climate policy does not increase employment or strengthen competitiveness," the Institute of Economic Development has stated. We therefore believe that the basis of the policy proposed by the Committee on the Environment here is extremely fragile. The idea that more stringent climate regulation can also increase competitiveness is a pious hope rather than documented empirical experience. ..................................................... This is about fine words and opportunities to be the best in the class and feel good. But no results are achieved in this way, and this does not lead to jobs and growth.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1047	Mr President, I would like to That the Center Party would be the major problem in Swedish environmental policy from the point of view of the Swedish Democrats, I take as a compliment. It is a bit exciting to hear that we would not be basing our environmental policy on research. With regard to climate research and policy, I can refer to the UN Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Generally speaking, there is consensus among all the world's researchers on what needs to be done and on when. It is on this basis that the Environmental Objectives Committee makes proposals, which are also in line with the agreement we signed in Paris. When the Institute of Economic Development questions the goals that the Environmental Objectives Committee is developing, it also questions whether we should comply with international agreements. That is something that I, for my part, find quite obvious. If we have signed international agreements, we also have an obligation to ensure that they are complied with. This applies to Sweden, and it applies to all countries that have already signed the Paris Agreement. I believe that some 170 countries have ratified it. For me, this isn't weird. For me, this is a necessary development. And to me, it's very clear. Sweden has significantly reduced its emissions. At the same time, Sweden has had a really strong economic growth. Those are facts. It is not something that neither the Council of Finance Policy nor the Institute of Economic Development condemns. There are facts and figures on the table. The Swedish Democrats think the interesting thing is research. It would be interesting to hear what alternative figures the Swedish Democrats have. What would development have been like if we had not taken our responsibilities and gone ahead in environmental matters? What development of growth would we have had then? What would the unemployment rate be like if we hadn't done this? Martin Kinnunen questions that this has had an effect.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1052	Mr President, I would like to Rickard Nordin talks about IPCC and international commitments, but that is not what the most visible work of the Environmental Objectives Committee is about. Its most visible work is about bringing Sweden on an extreme path with the most extreme climate policy in the world. It goes beyond all the agreements we have signed. We must, of course, comply with the commitments we have made internationally. I think we should work on these issues globally. The problem is that we cannot do IPCC's work here in the Swedish parliament in the Environmental Targets Committee. Environmental targets cannot stop increased greenhouse gas emissions in the world. You have to understand this. The IPCC has calculated the cost of reducing emissions at different levels. The figures have been quite high. It's about up to 6% of the bnp. But then a variety of things have been adopted, for example, that all countries are taking these measures at the same time. I wonder: What analysis has the Environmental Objectives Committee and Rickard Nordin made of what these goals will cost Swedish society? Is it about 1 percent of bnp, or is it 10 percent of bnp? Do you have any idea? Can we not see that the cost can be higher if not all countries pursue the same policy? We live in a global world and have companies that compete with lots of different companies in other countries and can move their production to other countries if it is more beneficial to operate there. If you do not understand this interaction between Swedish climate policy and other countries' climate policy, we are quite in trouble.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1054	Mr President, I would like to We in the Environmental Objectives Committee have, of course, made cost estimates, and they will be reported on Wednesday. If it is a question of not understanding things, I think it is a little more difficult to understand that Martin Kinnunen has not read the report by the Environment Committee. The first part of the report states quite clearly that we assume that other parts of the world will also do their part, that they will also change. It was a doomsday prophecy we heard from Martin Kinnunen. He himself said in the speaker's chair that this was one of the dumbest things you could do. I think that Martin Kinnunen should go and read what is in the first interim report of the Environmental Objectives Committee. And on Wednesday he will have the opportunity to read the second part of the report. Martin Kinnunen talks about the costs of doing something. But what is the cost of doing nothing? That is the relevant cost. What is the cost of climate change? It is about widowhood and human health, but also about economic costs. That is the relevant figure to compare with. You can't compare it to today's situation. I think it's almost fun, or at least tragic, when Martin Kinnunen says it can't be the Environmental Target Committee that should do the job. But who will do the work in Martin Kinnunen's world? If not all of us – me, Rickard Nordin, as a center party, Martin Kinnunen as a Swedish democrat and whoever sits at home on the couch – take our responsibility with the opportunities and instruments we have, who will do the job? Martin Kinnunen himself said in another replica, I think, that the oil will be used until other alternatives exist. Then who was Martin Kinnunen going to come up with those options? This is precisely why we in the Environmental Objectives Committee emphasise that Sweden can do this. We can use the forest, as Martin Kinnunen himself highlighted. We can make biofuels out of that. That is the knowledge that we can then export to other countries, because that is what makes a real climate difference. This is also why the Environmental Objectives Committee makes proposals.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1059	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it is presented as something that will happen sometime in the future. So maybe it can feel in our little safe corner of the world. But if we had now been to Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, we might have had to evacuate this premises because of the major floods that have just been going on there. Had we been to Lima, the capital of Peru, we would not have been able to go and fetch water cliffs in the quarter. They are forced to ration the water, because fresh water is a sinister raw material when the large glaciers have melted away to a very large extent. Had we been in sub-Saharan Africa, we would have had a hard time getting food to feed ourselves and our children. For a long time there has been one of the worst drought disasters in a long time. And not least, we can try to imagine what it would have been like to be in the Syria of war. The war has now been going on for five years, and we know it was preceded by the worst drought in manna memory. If there is anything we know about climate change, it is precisely that it affects our ability to live on this planet. For example, we know that climate change brings extreme weather, and we are already seeing it around the globe. We in Sweden and all the other industrialised countries have a historic responsibility for our emissions. We invented the internal combustion engine. It was really us who invented all the emissions that we are seeing today affecting the climate. That is why we in the industrialised countries must take the lead, reduce our emissions more quickly and help the poor countries not to repeat the mistakes we have made. In the report that we are now debating, there is a monitoring station, that is, a review of how well Sweden as a country meets our climate and energy policy targets for 2020. It is very important that we meet those objectives. How else are we going to get ahead of climate change? The government estimates that we will reach our targets by 2020, and that is a good thing. But we in the Left Party believe that we in Sweden are well placed to set higher goals than those we have. That is why I would already like to call for the approval of Amendment No 2, where we are proposing sharper climate targets in Sweden by 2020. It is important to propose sharper targets. With higher targets, more and better measures will also be taken to reduce our emissions more quickly as a letter to the post office. That is also why we in the Left Party at European level have proposed a more ambitious climate policy with sharper climate and energy targets by 2030. Mr President, I would like to It is also important to define the objectives. It is not so much worth if you have a fine objective that looks ambitious on paper but then know that in practice it is a very large part of that goal that has to be met by someone else. It is the experience of bourgeois climate policy. There it was said that about one third of the bourgeois government's climate goals could be achieved through the purchase of insecure credits in other countries. That is an important issue. It is a bit of a dividing line between right-wing climate policy and at least our climate policy in the Left Party. We do not want to roll over our historic responsibility for our emissions to any other country. Of course we should work with other countries. But we should not do that in order to achieve our national climate targets. We shall do so because we simply have a historic responsibility for our emissions. The projects which I now note that the bourgeois parties want to carry out even more of, such as the purchase of unsafe emission credits, are mentioned in reservation 9 on flexible mechanisms. It is not only the responsibility of other countries to take responsibility for our emission reductions. It is also the case that many of these projects themselves are rather questionable. I remember the hydroelectric project in northern India that some of us from the committee were informed about when we visited India. It is partly financed with Swedish money paid for a so-called CDM project. It endangered biodiversity and led to the displacement of people living in the area. I am also thinking of the Swedish contributions to the CDM project in the Jincheng coal mine in northern China. The former Swedish bourgeois government has paid out USD 10 million for that project. Why should Swedish climate money go to coal power plants in China? When the emission credits have been reviewed by independent researchers and institutes, they note that many of the emission reductions had come about anyway and that open doors are simply being opened up. That is why I think it is a good thing that our current government is saying that the domestic climate targets should be increasingly achieved through national efforts. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Social Democrats and environmentalists what it really means. Is it not time to say once and for all that if we are to reduce our emissions by 40%, or whatever it may be, it is 40% at home? For example, I would like to ask Johan Hultberg and the Moderates: Why do you want to make more of the unsafe projects? Why should we not take responsibility for our historical emissions and do so at home? Mr President, I would like to In the report, we in the Left Party are proposing a reform of the EU ETS. Some other parties have also highlighted this issue. We know that the EU ETS should be the main tool for reducing EU emissions. Today, however, the system is not working properly. If we can ensure that there is a steeper reduction curve and that more allowances can be removed from the scheme, each allowance will be more expensive. We ensure that we auction all allowances so that they are not distributed free of charge, we also have that effect. We simply need to create a more robust system that really delivers emission reductions at European level. Mr President, I would like to One issue that I think is forgotten in the report is an issue that has been much discussed in the Environment Agenda, the preparation that has been referred to here by several speakers. This applies to our emissions caused by our consumption. Today, these emissions are greater than Sweden's overall territorial emissions. However, we do not currently have any objectives or concrete instruments to reduce rapidly growing emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency is a body that has pointed out in several reports that it would be a good idea to set a target for consumption-related emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency has also noted that there are several concrete measures that can be taken to reduce emissions. In particular, there has been talk of the high emissions from international aviation and our meat consumption. It is not okay that consumption-related emissions and international aviation are completely excluded from climate commitments. As I said at the beginning, we in Sweden must take responsibility for all our emissions. This also applies to emissions that may be a little more difficult to account for and book. Of course, however, measures can be found to reduce these emissions quickly. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say something about the Environmental Objectives Committee, because it has been raised by a number of speakers before me. We in the Left Party fully supported the first report, which came in March, on a long-term emission reduction target, the development of a climate law and, overall, a climate policy framework for order and order in climate policy. The report that will be presented on Wednesday is supported by the Left Party. However, we have a reservation in which we reserve our reservations for a reduction in ambition for the interim target of 2030 and for international aviation and consumption emissions to be fully released from the climate ambition. Mr President, I would like to As I said at the outset, the climate issue is not a question of anything in the future, but of here and now. That is why it is so important that we have this debate on how we can make Swedish climate policy better so that we can reduce our emissions more quickly and ensure that we prevent a directly dangerous climate change.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1083	Mr President, I would like to Now we have heard in the Chamber the two outer parties of the Riksdag who have presented their views on climate policy, first the Swedish Democrats and now the Left Party. Between these two outer parties are now six parties that have agreed on the world's most ambitious climate policy goals. But for the Left Party that is not enough. For the Left Party, there should always be a little higher goals. It also seems, even more regrettable, to be an end in itself that politics is expensive. For the Moderates, the right goal is to reduce our emissions as much as possible and to do so in the most cost-effective way possible. But for the Left Party it seems to be almost reversed. The more expensive the policy is, the better it is. We're gonna do everything at home. We shall have as much of the national objectives and measures as possible. Me and the Moderates think exactly the opposite. The more we can coordinate internationally, the more we can agree on within the EU, ICAO, EMU, IMO and all the various global bodies and arenas we have, the better it is. Mr President, I would like to I have to ask Jens Holm: Is it the case that the policy of the Left Party aims to be as costly as possible? Is that how the Left Party perceives whether a policy is good or not? The more expensive, the better. Is that the quality concept of the Left Party?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1087	Mr President, I would like to When I listened to Martin Kinnunen from the Swedish Democrats, I was struck by how much it was that was very similar to Johan Hultberg's and Moderate's politics. I hear the constant reference to the Institute of Economic Development, that there must be long-term and cross-cutting economic impact assessments and that climate policy, of all policy areas, must always be cost-effective. Can't we just agree that this is the fate of our time, Johan Hultberg? It's here and now that we have to deliver. Johan Hultberg has the nerve to say, or at least to insinuate, that the Left Party is not pushing for a better climate. You talked about the EU, for example. After all, it is we who have proposed higher levels of ambition at European level. You have voted against this. We are the ones who have proposed a reform of the EU ETS. You have voted against this. We have even proposed a carbon tax at European level only because we know that it is the most effective system. We do not really want taxes at European level, but this can be the most effective. You have voted against this. You want someone else to take responsibility for Swedish climate policy. That is exactly what I said in my speech. Why should we rely on cheap but extremely uncertain emission credits which up to about 40% do not reduce emissions? There'll be nothing of them. Why should we make more of what you propose in your reservation, Johan Hultberg?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1090	Mr President, I would like to The climate challenge is indeed one of the predestined issues of our time. That is why I think it is quite obvious that we cannot afford an inefficient policy. If we are to cope with the climate challenge and if we are to afford to take all the measures needed to change, the policy must be cost-effective. Otherwise, we will fail, Jens Holm. It is irresponsible to pursue a policy that does not protect taxpayers' money, because then there will be less climate policy. Then there will be more emissions. It's as simple as that. Jens Holm criticises the Moderates for asking for impact assessments and because we find it interesting to listen to what recommendations the Conjunkturinstitutet or other independent assessors give us. For me, it is important to listen to the views of independent assessors when we and the Alliance formulate our environmental and climate policy. We want to achieve the best possible results at the lowest possible cost to society. I think it is totally irresponsible that we should make lower demands on climate policy than we do in other areas. We have to deliver results, and we have to focus on results. Unfortunately, however, Jens Holm and the Left Party want to continue the unconsoling debate that the highest goals and highest budget win. No, Mr President – the best result wins! The Alliance reduced emissions by 19 percent during our time, while at the same time we had strong economic growth. It is I – now I was almost swearing, Mr President – very proud of. It is not responsible to just suggest higher goals and more goals, Jens Holm. You must present a policy that is cost-effective and delivers results. Otherwise, we cannot afford to face the climate challenge.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1094	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg talks about cost-effectiveness and that it is the result that counts. Of course it is the result that counts. But quite often there is a connection between how much you invest in the climate and what result you get. It was you who in your time reduced the environmental and climate budget. We have been involved in supporting the Government's budget as we make a historic effort in the field of environment and climate change. You're talking about protecting the money, Johan Hultberg. Perhaps you read the previous issue of the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation's magazine. There you could read that the Swedish Energy Agency had to go in with SEK 140 million of our taxpayers' money to redeem a CDM project in China that had completely failed. I also think that your government went in with about 80 million kronor to a coal power project in northern China. It was also a CDM project. I am beginning to wonder: How good are these projects? How well do we control them? We have very little control. They are often not additional; they do not even lead to reductions in emissions. Above all, I find them immoral. We let someone else do the work for the responsibility that we have, namely that we should go ahead and reduce our emissions. There I think the Moderates have some things to answer for. You have a reservation saying that you want more of these unsafe emission credits. You have in two posts now failed to answer why you want it, Johan Hultberg.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1097	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 24, which the Liberals have together with the other alliance parties. I would also like to endorse Amendment No 27, which is the Liberals' own reservation. It is about instruments. I agree with Jens Holm on one thing: this debate is not about the future. It is about what we are going to do now and about what we have done for many years that have passed. In essence, this is a letter concerning a control post and the period 2008-2015. So the debate is also somewhat retrospective. In a climate debate, we cannot ignore what has happened over the last six months and with which most of us are satisfied. I keep in mind that some of the requests for exercise that have come in have become a little superfluous in the meantime because the reality has changed faster than the demands for exercise that have come in to Parliament. It can be seen as a good sign in itself. Nevertheless, I think that the discussion should be based on the Paris Agreement of December 2015. What has previously been heard here in the debate is central. This applies, among other things, to the kind of argument Martin Kinnunen from the Swedish Democrats for when he describes Sweden as an isolated island in the world that is doing something of his own. After all, the Paris Agreement is an agreement signed by 195 countries. At least 195 countries were in Paris, and the agreement may not be signed by everyone yet. In any case, this is not an isolated phenomenon in the world. The same requirements and work that apply and continue in Sweden are ongoing in many parts of the world. As has also been mentioned earlier in the debate, it is one of the starting points when we have worked in Sweden with the national work. What was both surprising and gratifying in Paris was that the level of ambition was significantly increased in terms of limiting the increase in temperature. Perhaps it would have been useful for the Swedish Democrats and Martin Kinnunen to be in Paris and listen to the representatives of the low-lying nations who not only talked about growth and such things. They discussed their whole existence. It is something that gives this a completely different dimension. This has also infected itself nationally when we conduct the discussion. I don't know how much we were affected in the Environmental Objectives Committee, but I find it hard to believe that we weren't affected. In February, we presented our interim report on net zero emissions to 2045 and a climate law that is a pure process law on how we will work with the climate issue in Sweden in the long term independently of the government. Last Friday, at DN Debate was presented by a number of participants in the Environment Target Committee – both members of this House and others – the main elements of the final report of the preparatory work. In addition to the basic net zero emissions target and the 85% reduction in Sweden by 2045, two ambitious milestones are now in place. These are emissions reductions of 63% by 2030 and 75% by 2040. The flexibility that, among others, Jens Holm and the Left Party have eviled themselves over, works just the opposite. It allows for cost-effective measures to be taken. It is definitely not about not taking responsibility, but actually about taking responsibility for getting the most out of the money we have. It is up to the government that sits on our level to use the mechanism that exists. Mr President, I would like to It is important for us in the Liberals that it is a clear signal to all those involved – industry, municipalities, regions and not least the Swedish citizens – that Sweden is prepared to take the lead and take responsibility for reducing our climate emissions. We have made it clear that it is not a question of jeopardising the competitiveness of industry in any way. I believe that no one here is inspired by the idea that we should do so, but rather it is about, which I think it was Johan Hultberg who was in favour of, that within this framework we should be able to strengthen competitiveness. Sweden has demonstrated, not least during the time of the Alliance Government, that there is no contradiction between growth and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We can see that the transport sector is at the heart of this. It accounts for over 50% of emissions in the non-action sector, i.e. those that are not part of the EU emissions trading scheme. After all, it can be quite reasonable to set a target for this particular sector. If we are to achieve the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves, and I believe that we will, we must tackle the transport sector. The objective of reducing emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010 is, of course, an enormous challenge. But I and the Liberals as a party are absolutely convinced that it will be possible. Otherwise, we would never have thought we could enter that target. We think it's quite possible. It is about technology development and energy efficiency, and it is about shifts to electricity and biofuels with great environmental benefits. Energy efficiency in particular is a very important part of this. We note that Sweden has a head start through its carbon-free electricity production with hydro, nuclear and renewable energy. As a liberal, I can see that travel is not something that we want to prevent people from doing. It is a question of each mode of transport bearing its own emission costs on the basis of the polluter pays principle. This has to be done at all levels. In the debate, it almost appears that there is a resistance relationship between national and international measures. There are, of course, certain things, such as international aviation and shipping, where you can only work at international level – at EU and perhaps preferably at global level. If we are to succeed fully, we agree that there must be a tightening up of the EU ETS. Monitoring is, of course, important. The 2015 control post was an evaluation of the policy of the Alliance Government from 2008 to 2015. It shows with great clarity that it was a policy that produced results. It can well be noted that both the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the target of renewable energy and energy efficiency will be achieved. In the case of renewable energy, the target will be achieved by far. The target to be achieved by 2020 was already reached in 2014. Now the current S-MP government has a clear responsibility to pursue the successful climate policy that the Alliance government laid the foundations for, and that is much what reservation no. 24 is all about. It is about returning to Parliament with if you intend to change any goals. Measures should be specified. It is about instruments, about both national and international work and about reporting the expected consequences. There will be demands on each government for the next few decades. I will not go into so many details, but I will nevertheless address some liberal starting points and principles that we have with us. It is, as I mentioned before, that it is the polluter who will pay. It is about the central importance of research and innovation and that we should have general and technology-neutral economic instruments. We fully agree in Sweden on how effective the CO2 tax has been. We see green tax exchange as a very important tool. It has been described in the past and is about reducing taxes on labour and entrepreneurship, leaving room to increase taxes on harmful and negative climate and environmental phenomena. One example is that climate-smart cars should benefit over high-emission cars. Another instrument that we from the Liberals have already highlighted in the past is that we should review the travel deduction system so that it benefits reduced emissions. It is such an instrument that we want to continue to work on.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1119	Mr President, I would like to In reservation 9, you, Lars Tysklind, together with the other bourgeois parties, write that you want to increase efforts with so-called flexible mechanisms to achieve our national emission reduction targets. Flexible mechanisms in this context are usually about so-called CDM projects, i.e. the purchase of emission credits in other countries. The Stockholm Environment Institute stated in a report a few years ago that a large part of the CDM projects had come off anyway. So you break open doors, but you can take back the profits from it. German Öko-Institut found that about 40% of CDM projects are not additional. They do not, therefore, lead in concrete terms to any emission reductions. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, some of the projects that the former bourgeois government entered into are doubtful in themselves, such as the large-scale hydroelectric project in Rampur, northern India, or the coal project in China for SEK 80 million. You get the feeling that you bourgeois want more of this just because it's so incredibly cheap. It really is – it costs 50 – 60 SEK to reduce a ton. It's less than a pizza out in the city. But you're less counting on these projects actually delivering. You said, Lars Tysklind, something good. You said the polluter will pay. Yes, but shouldn't we in Sweden take responsibility for our emissions? When we say that we should reduce by one ton, we should seriously reduce by one ton. Therefore, I would like to ask: why do you want more of this? If you think this is so good, why are you not doing all the emission reductions in other countries just through the purchase of emission credits?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1124	Mr President, I would like to The last sentence is a little absurd. Why we are not doing all the emission reductions in other countries, I hardly need to answer. It is clear that we are making the lion's share territorial in Sweden. There are certainly both good and bad projects in all areas, and we all know that there are CDM projects that have been good and CDM projects that have been bad. Now Jens Holm naturally chooses to just describe the bad projects. As I said in my speech, this is definitely not about not taking responsibility. I think that the description of the declines in ambition made by Jens Holm and the Left Party is not in line with reality. We have an ambitious target of 63% emission reductions by 2030. In this, six out of seven parties who are part of the Environmental Objectives Committee have said that there should be some complementary measures that one should be able to choose to do – down to 8% of these. How much one then chooses to do will well the reality tell. We'll see what happens later. At some point the Left Party must also conflict with cost-effectiveness. Finally, there are projects that are so expensive in Sweden that the reduction in emissions will not take place at all. It is a good thing, then, that we have decided that we want to be able to use the flexible mechanisms. We should not forget that it is largely about technology transfer, capacity building and such things. It is certainly possible to find bad examples of that, but it is very well to find good examples too, although I do not know about this right now.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1130	Mr President, I would like to Lars Tysklind answered another question. Lars Tysklind went into the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposal for a milestone by 2030. That in itself is interesting to discuss. However, this report is not even presented, and above all I asked a specific question about bourgeois reservation No 9 in this report. There you say you want to increase the stakes. So you want more of the flexible mechanisms. I have in my main speech and when I previously debated with Johan Hultberg from the Moderates and now that I'm talking to you tried to show that there are many dubious individual projects. I think they are doubtful that the previous bourgeois government went in with so much money – I want to remember that it was about SEK 3 billion – in all these projects. You simply have to buy up an incredible amount of projects. You end up in coal mines in China. They end up in large-scale hydroelectric projects in northern India and that sort of thing. You weren't that well counted, that's all. It seems that it is more important for your bourgeois to buy as many credits as possible, because it is incredibly cheap, than to actually focus on doing the conversion here in Sweden. Since you have a reservation about this, Lars Tysklind, I wonder: How many flexible mechanisms are allowed to be used according to the Liberals? You say you want to increase the stakes. The previous bourgeois policy was that one third of the climate commitments should be made with this. So is it even more than a third, 30%, that the Liberals want to do through the purchase of unsafe emission credits?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1134	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm may not have thought I was answering the question, but I actually brought this up to exemplify the proportions. What Jens Holm wondered in his final question in the first line was why we do not buy up everyone. I think that what now stands as the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposal shows what proportions we are talking about. We are talking about a milestone target for a 63% reduction in emissions. You should be able to use 8%. So this means that 55% is the floor for what we're going to do here at home. With the reasoning of the Left Party, I wonder: What are we talking about? This is the size of the issue. That should be the answer to the question.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1136	Mr President, I would like to I noticed that Lars Tysklind started talking about Paris and linked it to the fact that the goals of the Environmental Target Committee are not radical and extreme in relation to our surroundings. One was so inspired down there, after the roar in COP 21 in Paris, that one wrote up the percentage figure a little extra. You wanted to feel a little extra good. But the problem is that the Paris Agreement does not link any country to anything. You should send in a paper that tells you what to do in the future. Some of the countries have clearly stated that they intend to continue to increase their emissions. That's why I think the connection is a little strange. I also listened to Johan Hultberg. He assured us all that the Alliance is listening to independent experts and that it is important. Independent experts – the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance – have now made it clear that sectoral targets are harmful. They reduce flexibility and increase costs. Yet both the Liberals and the rest of the Alliance and the Social Democrats want the goal of a fossil-free vehicle fleet. I wonder why. Will the oil we stop using disappear if we don't buy it? Will we save the climate this way? Will all vehicle manufacturers change the cars they sell in order for us in our country to have a fossil-free vehicle fleet? Will the other countries follow? These are important questions to ask in this context. It is a costly policy that is passed on to businesses, consumers and taxpayers.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1140	Mr President, I would like to What is really an interesting counter-question is: What do SD and Martin Kinnunen have to show that Sweden is the only country in the world that cares about the Paris Agreement and that the rest wait and do nothing? That's not true. M a n must be able to look outwards. We are now talking about the transport sector. I can agree that sectoral targets are generally not a good idea. However, the fact that we have chosen to accept it and think it is good and reasonable to use the transport sector is because it is one of the most dominant sectors that we have to tackle first, so that it can be defined in some other way. But, in general, we do not think that sector targets are a good thing, for the very reason that Martin Kinnunen mentions: it is not cost-effective. Then we have some different roles in this discussion. Political objectives are very much about where we have to go. Just as we have been in the debate a number of times before, it is not about some kind of competition about who is on the bottom and who is the best or how Martin Kinnunen has described it now. This is based on science. It is not even the case that the science used by the IPCC is the worst scenario, but they use the lowest common denominator. I think SD and Martin Kinnunen take on a very big responsibility when you say that this is not a problem. I am rather pleased that this is not the prevailing opinion in Parliament.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1144	Mr President, I would like to I think everyone loves the Paris Agreement. The climate alarms were thrilled because they got 11⁄2 percent. They got a new number that was lower than the previous one – in this context they want as low numbers as possible. The so-called climate deniers were also very happy, for this agreement does not connect anyone to anything. And all the big countries were happy for the same reason. No one has to do anything. But there are also some positive aspects to the Paris Agreement. It could possibly lead to something later. It was interesting to hear that Lars Tysklind and the Liberals are opposed to sector-specific targets, but they are still part of the Environmental Committee that wants sector-specific targets. It was part of a government that also wanted sectoral objectives in the transport sector. That's where you want it, too, as I understood it. It is a little strange to admit that sectoral targets are bad, but when it comes to vehicle traffic we shall have a sector-specific case. This is usually motivated by the fact that we're going to take the lead. We are going to teach other countries that it is actually possible to have a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. But there is no empirical research to show that this is true. The oil will continue to be consumed. The oil that is not consumed in Sweden will be consumed elsewhere. Sweden is a small country. We do not control vehicle development globally. Instead, we are forced into a sidetrack with expensive subsidies for ethanol and biodiesel. It costs billions a year. We will have a fossil-free vehicle fleet, but it is not effective to set a target by 2030. We have to wait and see how things progress. When the technology is mature and when it is cost-effective, we will get this. But it will perhaps be 2040 or 2050 – it remains to be seen. Setting the target by 2030 is inefficient and costly.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1148	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to hear that Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats nevertheless see that the measure is necessary and only postponed it for ten years. However, the question remains: what evidence does Martin Kinnunen have that other countries are not working on the issue? We can look at the German car industry. We don't need to mention any brand, but why are they working to produce electric cars and things like that? I find it hard to believe that a large company like Volkswagen is only working for the Swedish market, but they probably have other ideas that this is what will apply throughout Europe. Of course, the European Union has a very central role to play. I do not know if the Swedish Democrats noted that when the demand for emission reductions to 120 g per kilometre came from the EU, it was quite fast to bring down most engines to it. Unfortunately, some of this was cheated, but one goal in itself can also be technologically driven. We must not forget that. I think the last line was a bit fluttering from the Swedish Democrats. It is felt that 2030 is a far too ambitious and excessive target, but then it can probably go by itself to 2040. It seems like a somewhat fluttery view of the issue.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1152	Mr President, I would like to Politics is to want to care about, to be able to think of someone other than yourself, to dare to broaden their horizons to a larger perspective and feel responsible for the future now. This is how the musician and municipal politician Tomas Hagenfors from Hallsberg writes in one of his songs about politics. Today's debate on our climate and energy goals is about the future and about the conditions for climate and habitat that we want to hand over to future generations, to our children and grandchildren. Recently, six of the seven parties included in the Parliamentary Environment Goals Committee presented the main points of the final report that the preparation will present on Wednesday. We have heard earlier in the debate about the important emissions targets in Sweden: By 2030 they will be 63 per cent lower than in 1990, and the intermediate target for 2040 will be at least 75 per cent lower than in 1990. Then there is the objective of domestic transport. In 2030, domestic transport emissions will be at least 70 per cent lower than the 2010 level. It is a good thing that in its debate article in Dagens Nyheter, the Environmental Objectives Committee highlights the obstacles that currently exist at European level and which make it difficult to achieve the goals that we are going to achieve. A few weeks ago, the Energy Commission also presented its report, in which the Christian Democrats, together with four other parliamentary parties, were able to present their proposal after a broad agreement on the orientation of energy policy. That is very pleasing. The agreement creates the stable conditions necessary for bold investments in climate-neutral energy production to be implemented. The agreement allows new renewable energies to replace fossil fuels while nuclear power continues to deliver climate-neutral energy. With a shift to fossil-independent transport, there is also a reasonable increase in demand for electricity. I am thinking not least of the extension of charging stations for electric cars, which will require a great deal of energy. Therefore, despite efforts to save electricity and reduce electricity consumption, we will need at least as much electricity in the future as we do today in our country. In times of excess electricity, Sweden can also sell electricity to countries on the continent and thus help to relieve their dependence on coal to produce electricity. Mr President, I would like to Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time and requires regional, national and global solutions. Our dependence on fossil fuels is a burden on both health and the environment and, at the same time, a safety policy risk. As the average temperature of the earth increases, developing countries are particularly hard hit by drought, soil erosion, floods, parasites and the spread of tropical diseases. The rich countries must take the lead for ethical reasons, I think, because we are responsible for the vast majority of the emissions that have been made, but also for demonstrating that it is possible to change the economy. The Christian Democrats want to secure the long-term prospects of the Green Climate Fund agreed by the United Nations. The Fund finances climate projects in developing countries. Time is running out if the world is to reach the two-degree target. We can see it as the amount of carbon dioxide that we have left to release into the atmosphere is becoming less and less. It is therefore unfortunate that some EU countries are increasing their fossil dependence by early nuclear decommissioning or by Russian fossil gas imports. European dependence on Russian gas contributes to instability and carbon dioxide emissions. Several EU countries have not switched from coal dependence, while others have even increased their dependence on fossil sources by shutting down nuclear power or investing too little in renewable sources. During the time of the alliance government, Sweden had a high level of ambition in the EU's climate policy negotiations. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should continue to push for the EU to be a global example of climate and environmental policy. The CO2 tax on fossil fuels and a developed emissions trading system in the EU are effective instruments for reducing emissions and improving the climate. The EU's emissions reduction and energy efficiency targets play a central role in the fight against environmental degradation and climate change. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have long been the driving force for developing emissions trading within the EU, the EU ETS, which is a cost-effective tool for achieving climate targets. We believe that the emissions trading scheme should be extended to the other transport sector that is not yet participating in the scheme. I am thinking, above all, of aviation. The greenhouse gases currently covered by the EU trading system are carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and perfluorocarbons, PFCs. The latter is used in the production of electronic systems and has a strong climate impact, although it is mainly CO2 emissions that dominate. In the EU, about 45% of total greenhouse gas emissions are covered by the emissions trading scheme. For Sweden, the corresponding figure is about 36 per cent. The Christian Democrats believe that all greenhouse gases should be covered by the EU emissions trading scheme. Mr President, I would like to Today's report contains a total of 36 reservations, of which the Christian Democrats support 12. However, in order not to spend too much time on votes, we choose in this House simply to ask for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 15 on the EU's long-term climate policy and the joint alliance reservation 24 on the fulfilment of the 2020 climate target.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1170	Mr President, I would like to Today we are faced with the completion of the facts. Man has already affected the climate on the planet, and the effects are seen daily. People are forced to move from drought. People are being forced away by floods. Starvation threatens in areas where food production is impossible due to increased temperature and less rain. This year we have experienced how all the months of the year, one by one, have been declared the warmest on the planet ever. It is clear that we in the world and in Sweden must plan and work for how we can manage jobs and well-being in a changing climate. In the climate letter that we are now debating, the government believes that adaptation measures should be taken early in order to avoid a higher cost in the future. It is about spatial planning, communications, economics, biodiversity and much more. Climate change will have a major impact on key functions in Swedish society as well. It is high time to take adaptation work seriously. The basis for the report we are discussing today is the government's letter on a monitoring station for climate policy. It states that Sweden will reach the climate and energy policy targets by 2020. What can we say again? Well, it went easier and better than we thought in 2009. It went easier and better, and we surpassed the goal once more, despite what the detractors thought in 2009. As a social democrat, I am convinced that we would have achieved higher ambitions. We've been saying that all along. Control posts are important, i.e. that the government monitors how Sweden manages to achieve the goals decided by the Riksdag. We Social Democrats have been putting forward proposals for years that this is something that needs to be developed, not just come from time to time with irregularities. The Parliament needs annual reports on emissions, and you need to regularly see a plan from the government on how the targets are to be achieved. They are part of what we call the climate policy framework. I believe that things such as accounting, monitoring and measurement are the basis for a good and credible climate policy. A proposal for a climate policy framework, negotiated by seven parties, is now on the government table from the Parliamentary Environmental Goals Committee. The proposal includes a climate law, a precise updated long-term climate target, climate action plans and a Climate Policy Council. To this is now added from the preparation of a final report containing proposals for the emission path and targets for 2030 and 2040, sectoral targets for the transport sector and further proposals and measures for a long-term climate policy. Here, too, a broad cross-block agreement was reached in which six of the seven parties held the final result together. It's important for delivery. Now the government can present proposals for decisions in the Riksdag, despite a challenging parliamentary situation. It will become a reality. It is a stable block agreement for ambitious climate work that carries jobs and prosperity for delivery. It is good and important for Sweden because it, as well as the energy settlement, is crucial for the jobs in Sweden and our common environment. It is by clarifying a long-term focus on climate and energy policy that we can lay the foundation for Sweden to become the first fossil-free welfare country. Without clarity and a long-term perspective, the investment will not come. This is what is needed to realise the many climate innovations that exist in the country. This calls for long-term security for investors. The government recently announced a major investment in green environmental and climate technology by developing and making available test beds in the field of environmental technology, such as cutting-edge technology for sustainable urban development. That's much-needed news. At the same time, new innovations are also needed for tomorrow's solutions. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has identified the climate and the environment as one of the most important areas in which the Innovation Council will invest. Sweden has a prime minister who puts technology development and new industrialization high. It is a policy that, in addition to leading to sustainable growth, will lead to reduced climate emissions and an opportunity for Sweden to achieve the goals that have been set. While we are developing the new environmental technologies that the world is asking for, we are reducing unemployment. It bodes well. The government also stimulates direct investments in the local government's climate work. The climate impact will receive SEK 600 million annually between 2016 and 2018 in part-financing for local climate action. We also invest in farmers' opportunities to reduce their climate impact and contribute to reduced imports of fossil fuels with the help of methane gas reduction aid. Investments and instruments, such as political determination, are the basis for an effective climate policy. Mr President, I would like to The driving forces that an offensive climate policy has for technological development, innovation and exports are also the reason why the review now makes it clear that the Parliament's objective to reduce emissions by 40 per cent by 2020 compared to 1990 is to be largely done at home. This is new news, and it is the announcement of high ambitions – higher ambitions than the previous bourgeois government had. It is entirely within the Parliament's decision. The bourgeois government estimated that one third of the reduction would take place by including emission reductions in other countries in its own Swedish emission reduction target. That assessment can be made. The current government can make and makes a different assessment. The bourgeois parties are very keen that Sweden should have the opportunity to meet some of Sweden's commitments to targets and emission reductions by taking measures in other countries – i.e. emission reductions in other countries that will be counted off on Sweden's commitment. I don't think it's very good. It is also symptomatic that, in this debate, this is exactly what the bourgeois parties collectively collect in their reservations in this report. It fights with beaks and claws to continue to meet domestic emission reduction targets by investing in other countries. Let me give you an illustration to understand what I mean and why I think it is bad. You're assigned to clean a room. Let's say there's 12 hecto dust in the room. Quickly we can see that the open floor area in the room is relatively fast to clean. Then you get rid of six hecto dust, but six remains under the couch, in the corners and so on. Then the question is whether you can clean the neighbor's room for payment instead. The neighbor says yes, and you clean the neighbor's open surface. You've got 12 hectos together. The problem is, it's still dirty in your room. Sooner or later, you're gonna have to take that shit away too. This is the case in Sweden of the Moderates, Liberals, Christian Democrats and Centers. When they have paid for climate action in other countries, the dirty corners remain in Sweden. It will require us to finally clean these corners, too, because all emissions will be removed in order to meet the international climate targets and live up to the UN climate convention. We can't get away from homework. The current government believes that it is smarter to have as a basic principle that we should meet our own emission commitments with our own emission reductions, that we can raise our ambitions. This is because it is needed but also to support technology development in Sweden, to increase the driving forces to develop new technologies, to create jobs here at home and to export the solutions to the climate issue that the world needs. Sweden needs more jobs. That is why the government has declared a new focus on politics. It is a policy that increases ambition, drives and finances international climate action more than ever and has decided to contribute further to the world's climate transition by taking responsibility for our own emissions reductions at home. In this context, I can take the opportunity to release an appetizer for upcoming election movements. A climate-ambitious government will be required even after the 2018 elections if we are to meet the 2020 target with higher ambitions. The same applies to maintaining high ambitions in a long-term climate and energy policy. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by stating that there are a lot of motions and reservations in this report. For those who are not so detailed in Swedish politics, there may seem to be a great disagreement in politics. But that's not true. The focus and the long-term goal that all emissions must eventually be removed are widely agreed in the Swedish Parliament. There is a broad commitment to an effective climate policy in the Swedish parliament. That is something we should be proud of. However, there are different approaches to the design of climate action, the pace at which it should be deployed and who should pay. The major exception in the Swedish parliament is the Swedish Democrats. They don't want to do anything, absolutely no more than we have to. In plain language, the party wants us to ignore Parliament's decision on climate targets by 2020 and the UN climate convention that Sweden has ratified and which was laid down in 1992. It states that it is the industrialised countries that should take the lead, which should reduce their emissions most and first. But the Swedish Democrats do as they usually do. They have their own introvert interpretation and do not think that Sweden should do anything. Instead, others will do more. They do not believe in reducing emissions in Sweden and argue that Sweden has so little emissions that it does not matter in general. What if everyone thought that way? Where would that take us? For us Social Democrats, the focus of climate policy is simple: fossil emissions must be reduced in order to end completely in the long term. It is about solidarity and justice. It's about survival. It's about making up your mind. We have decided, and the government has clearly declared this direction. Sweden should be involved in leading the development of active climate work, not stand aside. The Government wants Sweden to be a driving force for national and international climate work – an ambitious climate work that carries jobs and welfare. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1195	Mr President, I would like to Screw the corners after bad cleaning is mostly a local problem. Climate issues, on the other hand, are a global problem. What is actually a local problem in this context is the current government. In the election movement Stefan Löfven spoke about the forest industry as a future industry that would be made offensive efforts. Matilda Ernkrans and I agreed that we need the forest in order to phase out fossil fuels. However, what is now being proposed on the initiative of this government runs counter to this. A government investigation that according to media reports will propose a tax on trucks of somewhere between SEK 26 and 28 per mile hits the forest industry directly. This is because, as the Green Party and the Social Democrats may not have noticed, there is no railway to the forest. An average forest transport is about 100 km. So there is no point in reloading it. Forest research looked a few years ago at the mileage tax. It was estimated that up to 10% of forests and biomass in forests would become impossible to use with such a tax. It was then estimated that a tax of about half as much as the one now seems to be proposed. Are the Social Democrats thinking we're going to start the timber again? It would be something more climate-smart. Or should we simply reduce the forestry industry as an industry? Should we remove all this biomass? We need the means of transport, which I am the first to sign. However, we do not need instruments in the field of transport that will reduce the sectors that we need to change. My question to Matilda Ernkrans is therefore: do the Social Democrats really want to introduce a kilometre tax, and if so, how do you see the problems that this would entail for the forest industry – the industry that we in the Environmental Objectives Committee jointly highlight as the opportunity to find solutions to move from fossil to renewable? I'd like to know.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1202	Mr President, I would like to First, we can at least say that if everyone leaves shit in the corners becomes a local problem quite easily a global problem. If, instead, we all take responsibility for our own cleaning at home, we have solved that problem also at a global level. To answer the question of mileage tax that Rickard Nordin chooses to ask in this climate debate: The first thing I want to say is that what Rickard Nordin refers to is a hearing in part of an ongoing investigation that will serve as a basis for the government when it comes to deciding whether to introduce a kilometre tax or not. The usual and what I think is reasonable is that you let the investigation finish with your proposal. Then you send it for a referral, and then you decide what to do with the investigation's proposal. Rickard and I have been in the Environmental Target Committee together. There we have handled another investigation, which was set up by the Government of Rickard Nordin, namely the FFF investigation. Once you deal with the proposals politically, it is not that you can end up in exactly the same place as investigators or investigations, but it will have time to tell. Let the investigation finish, let it go for a referral and let us get back to that question! However, just as the forest is extremely important to us Social Democrats, the haulage industry is also extremely important. Looking at the possibility of introducing a kilometre tax is primarily for us about the nicest conditions for our haulage industry. I think we should be able to agree that we need to have this in Sweden.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1206	Mr President, I would like to Creating good conditions for the haulage industry – what does it have to do with the climate issue, I do not know – is therefore about taxing it harder? I think that is a very exciting and quite reverse rhetoric. For me, it is simply a question of whether the haulage industry should have something to do, it is quite good that it can be used, and in a competitive way. If the forest industry is unable to take its biomass out of the forest, which in turn means that we cannot switch from fossil to renewable, the haulage industry will not have any assignments to take on. Only last Friday we wrote at DN Debate, Matilda Ernkrans and I together, that biofuels and a bioeconomy are incredibly important for the future. If a kilometre tax – which the government wants; otherwise it would not have appointed the investigation – were to be introduced, Gud forbid, can Matilda Ernkrans and the Social Democrats promise here in Parliament that it will not hit our opportunities to use forest biomass, to switch from fossil to renewable and to use this to create a solid and good bioeconomy?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1210	Mr President, I would like to What I can promise Rickard Nordin and the Center Party is that this government is very careful to investigate and prepare the proposals it will eventually present to Parliament. This also applies to the proposal on mileage tax, and that work is now under way. A Swedish haulage industry with environmentally good transp locations has everything to gain from us being able to ensure that it is the way to transport that becomes the norm in Sweden. This means that it is primarily about ensuring that we get better conditions on Swedish roads. Then a kilometre tax, properly designed, can also bear the opportunity to reduce our climate emissions. But let us prepare and investigate this in good order so that we get a well-prepared proposal that we may eventually be able to take a position on in Parliament. I believe that this is a very reasonable way of addressing the challenges of politics. This also applies to forest biofuels. We agree that it is extremely important that we manage to obtain more biofuels from our forest so that we can replace fossil fuels with biofuels that we can produce ourselves. This means a lot of new jobs that Sweden needs. We will also take this in good order and ensure that it is right so that we meet not only one and two challenges, but perhaps even more.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1213	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to Matilda Ernkrans, I note that we share the criticism of the policy of the former bourgeois government in terms of how it tried to achieve the national climate goals. The former bourgeois government wanted to achieve those targets at about a third by buying in certainly cheap but uncertain emission credits in other countries. Matilda Ernkrans talks about the importance of cleaning the entire floor and do not leave any dust balls in the corners or under the bed. I fully agree. Therefore, the government now says that as regards how Sweden will achieve its commitments in the future, this will be done more through national measures. However, the government is not saying that it should stop buying emission credits entirely in other countries, but only that this should be achieved to a greater extent through national measures. This may in practice mean that this government will achieve the national climate targets by purchasing emission credits that make up 32% of the national target. It is less than 33 percent, as the bourgeois had. Therefore, I would like to know: what is this government's ambition in terms of how to achieve our climate commitment? How much should you rely on the purchase of insecure credits in other countries – is it 32%, 29%, 10% – or are you going to clean up the whole floor and take responsibility for our historic greenhouse gas emissions? I hope for the latter.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1218	Mr President, I would like to What we can say is that it was easier and easier to achieve the climate goals that Sweden had set. I feel very confident that we Social Democrats have said that we can have higher ambitions and cope with emissions reductions at home. I am also very pleased that the new government has changed its focus on politics. It is said that the Government's ambition is to achieve the goal more effectively through national efforts. I think it is wise and reasonable for a government to do everything in its power to add new measures, instruments and investments to bring about emission reductions at home as well. We have to relate to the parliamentary decision that exists since 2009, when the Swedish Parliament decided that emission reductions can be made through investments in emission reductions in other countries – can but must not. Now we wanted to change direction, and then it is reasonable to say, within the framework of the parliamentary decision, that the Government's ambition is to achieve the goal to a greater extent through national efforts. I feel confident with the development and with the measures and instruments that the government has developed. They indicate that we will really be able to do this with national efforts. But let's see when it's 2020.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1221	Mr President, I would like to Something is fundamentally wrong, so I look at it and then I interpret Matilda Ernkrans – if we let someone else do the job that we say we should do ourselves. If we say that we should reduce our emissions by one tonne, people expect us to make a ton at home, not to take 300 kilos in any other country. If, then, this is fundamentally wrong, why is it not said that we should rely entirely on national measures in order to achieve our climate commitment? Why open up to continue this dependence on insecure credit in other countries? It is this uncertainty and the opening-up to continued purchases that I do not understand. I would like this government to be able to plug it in and say that one ton means one ton at home. Then, of course, there are other forms of international cooperation, but when we say that we are doing something we are doing it at home fully. Isn't that what should apply anyway, Matilda?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1224	Mr President, I would like to Basically, it may also be about trust and trust. It is Social Democrats and environmentalists who carry the government's power now. I feel confident that the government has changed direction and says that our ambition is to achieve the goal more effectively through national efforts. It is also a government that sets out measures, instruments and investments to achieve that objective. I feel safe about it, but it may have something to do with trust and trust. After all, it is the party that I represent that is one of the governing parties. Then the Left Party and Jens Holm have every opportunity to push for politics based on what they think is reasonable and important. But I feel confident with the government's policy and with the fact that it is a policy that can carry forward. In fact, we need a broad consensus in this House in order to deliver really good climate policy. If it is something that the climate does not need, it is pamphlets that no one can pay. What the climate needs is active measures that are heading in the right direction. There is also a need for some cooperation and some cross-block agreements, in my opinion.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1227	Mr President, I would like to I didn't really get the analogy of dirt in the different rooms. The atmosphere does not have several different rooms. It's one big room. It doesn't matter where you let something out; it's everywhere anyway. That is one of the basic problems in this matter. It is also a bit wrong to name carbon dioxide as dirt. Nevertheless, it is a source of life and something that is needed for things to grow. I noticed that the Social Democrats are very clear that they want to focus on national efforts. I find that regrettable. If you can reduce emissions anywhere in the world more efficiently with the same amount of money, you should of course do so. Everything else is inefficient and foolhardy, because it does not matter where discharges take place, but they affect us just as much anyway. Now the Environmental Objectives Committee, a little delayed and with some loss, has decided that it wants to reduce emissions by 85 per cent from 1990 to 2045. That is, we have heard, the most radical proposal made by any country. There are different things about that. In the del report, it was rather confused as to what it was thought would cost. There were different calculations, and vaguely reference was made to the fact that the cost is a single percentage of bnp. Does Matilda Ernkrans know anything about the cost of this proposal?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1232	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats find it difficult to understand the parable, which is that if everyone takes responsibility for their own climate emissions, we manage to change the world in a better direction. I understand that Martin Kinnunen and the Swedish Democrats find it difficult to understand it, because it is clear that the Swedish Democrats do not think that we should comply with the UN conventions in this area either. It is, of course, a pervasive feature of the policy of the Swedish Democrats that you stick to your own interpretation of what the UN conventions mean and how you take responsibility for them. The UN Convention on Climate Change, adopted in 1992, is very clear that it is the industrialised countries that are going to take the lead and that have a greater responsibility. This responsibility has been assumed by Sweden since then, and we will continue to take it, at least if we manage to keep sufficient consensus in the Swedish Parliament that this is the right way to go. Right now, it is the Swedish Democrats who register and want a completely different focus on politics. It is true that we take greater responsibility for national action, but it is not true that it is at the expense of international action. This government also spends a lot and a lot of money on international efforts, but we do not think that they should be included in our own emission reduction commitments, but they are done in addition. As far as costs are concerned, I can assure Martin Kinnunen that we in the Environmental Objectives Committee have taken help in all kinds of ways to calculate costs. Macroeconomic models do not capture the entire climate transition.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1236	Mr President, I would like to If everyone took responsibility, we would not have this debate. The fact that everyone does not take responsibility is what we are discussing. That is why we need to have meetings at UN level and try to bring all countries with us. Unfortunately, it does quite little. Ernkrans claims that the government spends so much money that it is enough for everything: You can reduce emissions unilaterally here in Sweden while spending money on our surrounding world. I was excited to hear that. When I look at the state budget, I think it looks a little gloomier. I have asked the representatives of the Moderates, the representatives of the Center Party and now the representatives of the Social Democrats what it would cost. I still haven't got an answer. It's a little interesting. At least there were figures in the interim report, ranging from 1% of GDP to 12%. There's a difference of hundreds of billions. The Institute of Economic Development was quite tough when they saw this, precisely because there was no basis for the claims made by the Environment Committee in that report. I hope it will look better now that it comes this week. Otherwise, it would be good if the Social Democrats and the other government could take note of the Financial Policy Council's opinion to the Environmental Objectives Committee on precisely cost-effective climate policy. The atmosphere does not have different rooms. It's the same room. If we can reduce emissions most for SEK 100 elsewhere we will of course do so. Everything else is foolhardy. The Swedish Democrats believe that we should fulfil the international commitments we have made. Sweden has taken enormous responsibility. But we're not going to make it absurd. It is foolhardy, and it risks our growth and our jobs.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1242	Mr President, I would like to The dividing lines are clear here. The Swedish Democrats are in the process of calling themselves out of this Parliament by asserting some kind of nanism – if someone else does something, we do not have to. They also have their own freer interpretation of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. But, like I said, it's not weird. The Swedish Democrats tend to take on international conventions in this way, to make them fit into their ideological framework. The Swedish Government and we Social Democrats believe that we should comply with the UN climate convention. There it is clear that it is the industrialised countries that are going to take the lead and which are going to reduce their emissions first and most. That is a responsibility that we will continue to take. We claim, and believe that we have evidence, that it will be possible. With clear political determination and a combination of instruments, investment and political action, it is possible to make the transition. It also carries jobs and welfare. We've made it before. And we will continue to pass it. The concerns expressed by the Swedish Democrats here are not new. That's the way the climate shifters have sounded at all times. And you've been convicted every time, Martin Kinnunen. It has been easier, it has been easier and Sweden has become richer and more competitive for every step we have taken in the climate transition. It is my view that we can also take on the future in this way. But I am, unlike the Swedish Democrats, part of a labour movement that has supported conversion and structural change. We have done this by also taking responsibility for high levels of education and security that contribute to the transition. And we have also taken responsibility for the whole of Sweden and all the people in this country. We will continue to do so. It is based on equality, freedom, justice and solidarity.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1248	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating climate policy, following the government's letter and assessment of how the Swedish climate and energy targets by 2020 will be achieved. This report also deals with some eighty demands for exercise from general exercise time. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. The earth has a fever. Greenhouse gas emissions and their consequences are today's major challenge. We in the richer part of the world have caused much of these emissions, and it is our responsibility to ensure that they are reduced. How is that work going in Sweden? In the letter, the government believes that we will achieve the climate targets agreed by Parliament in 2009, i.e. a 40% reduction in emissions in the non-contracting sector by 2020 compared to 1990. This is obviously positive, although the Green Party, when the targets were set, wanted more ambitious targets. I am convinced that we could have achieved them as well. The Green Party also believes that the emission reductions, the ones we credit for in our domestic target, should take place in Sweden and nowhere else. It is therefore gratifying that in the letter, the government hopes to achieve this by 2020, namely that we will achieve a 40% reduction in domestic emissions. The Alliance wants a third of emissions reductions to take place elsewhere, through someone else's work. It goes without saying that we, who can both afford and smart technology, should help other countries reduce their emissions. However, we should not be credited for the emission reductions that take place in other countries. It'll be a strange bookkeeping. How is it, then, that the rate of emission reductions has increased since the change of government, Mr President? Well, it's about our red-green government having put a higher gear in the climate work, through
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1257	More support for those who want to put solar cells on the roofs, for farmers who want to produce biogas and for those who want to buy cars that go on renewables and electricity
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1260	To prepare for the introduction of a road wear charge for heavy duty vehicles
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1262	We now have a government that takes the climate seriously and is actively working to reduce emissions both in Sweden and in the rest of the world. Mr President, I would like to As has been said earlier in the debate, it is gratifying that in recent weeks we have agreed across party boundaries on several important things in the field of climate change. Five parties in the Energy Commission have agreed that we will have a fully renewable electricity system by 2040 and that renewables will receive increased support in the so-called electricity certification system. We are seven parties in the Environmental Objectives Committee who have agreed that we want to introduce a climate law with a climate policy framework that creates order and order in climate policy. We agree that we should have reached net zero emissions by 2045. On Wednesday, we will present our final report, which proposes, among other things, interim targets for reducing emissions by 2030 and 2040 with an emission path. That is how we get a climate policy that is tough, regardless of government. As an environmental party, I am proud to be involved in proposing this, although the Green Party obviously wants more, although as an environmental party I have higher ambitions in terms of both goals and instruments. Mr President, I would like to Our domestic transport is responsible for about one third of CO2 emissions in Sweden. Road traffic accounts for about 95% of emissions from domestic transport. It is a sector with a high dependence on oil. 85% of the fuel currently used in road transport is of fossil origin. According to SPBI, 78 per cent of the oil imported by Sweden each year goes to the transport sector. Reducing emissions in the transport sector is thus crucial for us to meet our climate targets in Sweden. The environmental target committee therefore proposes a sectoral target for transport emissions. How it was to be formulated was clearly discussed. We have seven parties in the Environmental Objectives Committee that have different levels of ambition. The fact that the Green Party wants more is not surprising. Nor is it surprising that we did not get the target we wanted for 2030 – a completely fossil-free vehicle fleet. But politics is about being able to compromise. The fact that six parties have now agreed on a target of at least 70% emission reductions in road, rail and maritime transport by 2030, compared to 2010, is large and important. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank those parties in the preparation who have screwed up their ambitions. Mr President, I would like to However, reducing emissions in the transport sector is not a quick fix. Today we see that things are going the wrong way. Last year, emissions from our roads increased. Much needs to be done to reverse this trend, not least in terms of travel habits and community planning. Over the last 50 years, the biggest increase in passenger transport has been by car. This means that even if public transport has more than doubled in absolute terms since the 1960s, the share of public transport travel has decreased from about half of transport before 1960 to less than 20% today. This development must be reversed if we are to meet our climate targets. It is therefore absolutely necessary and important that one of the proposals of the Mjömålsföreningen is to change the norm. Instead of the car, walking, cycling and public transport should be made the norm for urban and urban planning. And trains and buses should be made the norm when planning infrastructure in between. If we are to achieve a reduction in traffic emissions of at least 70% by 2030, it is, in addition to a large introduction of cars that go on electricity and renewable fuels, a must. Mr President, I would like to It is good that it looks like we are going to meet the target of a 40% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions in Sweden in the non-trafficking sector by 2030 compared to 1990. But if we are to be honest, the emissions of Swedes have not been reduced. Instead, yours and my climate footprints have become bigger by consuming more and more. And much of what we consume is produced abroad. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, only our flying generates 10 million tons of greenhouse gases annually. It is as much as road traffic in Sweden does. The Green Party believes that there is a need for a complementary target for the emissions of consumption, a target and also an instrument. As I said, aviation is a major source of emissions. It is also emissions that no country takes responsibility for in its current accounting of emissions. Flight emissions are not included in the deal concluded in Paris in December. They are politically charged at global level, and also here in Sweden among some opposition parties. But the Green Party believes that aviation must also bear its climate costs. Therefore, the Government has set up an investigation that has been commissioned to analyse and propose how a tax on air travel can be designed. This is something that other countries in the European Union – like Germany and the United Kingdom – have already done. Air transport must also bear its climate costs. This and major investment in high-speed trains and comfortable night trains in Sweden and Europe is the recipe to replace a large part of our flying in the future. Mr President, I would like to Finally, this is the moment. We do not yet see the full impact of the emissions that we have already done, so there is no time to lose. Compromise is a matter of course in politics, but there is no risk that we will do too much. The security we get through home insurance, pension savings, seat belts and more needs to be complemented by the increased security that greater climate action would provide. Sweden is well placed to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries and create good examples that can be spread around the world.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1279	Mr President, I would like to In an interpellation debate on biofuels six months ago, Magdalena Andersson expressed herself as follows: Sweden shall have instruments that are stable over time and provide a stable contribution to the Treasury. Money for the treasury thus comes before fossil-free transport in the order of priority. Climate problems have to wait. We need money for our grant applications. That was the message from this government's finance minister. On the other hand, it is also clear in the budget. The government with the Green Party at its head raises taxes on renewable fuels by 370 million. The ethanole is now basically completely wiped out. The rape diesel is on its knees. The compensation will be fossil petrol, diesel or HVO, which is a biofuel but which is far too often made from palm oil. This should distinguish approximately SEK 4 per litre between ethanol and petrol in order for them to be equally taxed without overcompensation. Now the difference is about $1.50. It's clear that people think otherwise. In fact, it is so bad that we risk backing our climate targets on the transport side. Last year there was no change at all. I wonder: Is the Green Party still behind the principle of green tax exchange? If so, how does Stina Bergström feel that it works in a government position?
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1285	Mr President, I would like to One basic principle of the Green Party is that we should have a green tax shift that makes it more expensive to do what is bad for the itch food and the environment and cheaper to do what is good for the environment and the climate. That's it. Like Rickard Nordin, I think there is a problem with the development that we are now seeing. Refuelling renewables will be more expensive than refuelling petrol or diesel. There are more reasons for that. One major reason is the fall in oil prices, which makes the difference. It would be possible to increase the CO2 tax, and so has this government. We have implemented an increase in the CO2 tax, but it may need to be increased even further in order to avoid that difference being so great. It is also EU rules that prevent renewables from being favoured at the expense of fossil fuels, which is a very strange attitude. I know your government, Rickard Nordin, wrestled with this. It considered various proposals that were sent to the EU and then had to be re-examined and not put into practice. Now my government is thinking about how to resolve this with a quota obligation that will be accepted in the EU. It is important that we think right here so that we do not find ourselves once again in the position that the industry believes there is going to be a long-term system and that at the last minute we have no to it. Then the industry stands there again without long-term rules of play.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1290	Mr President, I would like to My question was really: does Stina Bergström think that the tax exchange principle that the Green Party stands for is implemented or not when you are in a government position? On its own website it says: The environmental party's principle is simple. Taxes should be increased on what pollutes the environment and lowered on what is good for the environment and creates new jobs. As far as I know, Sweden is the only country in the EU that is now carrying out a black exchange of taxes in which employers' contributions and taxes on labour are increased, contrary to what is on the Green Party's website. In addition, taxes on renewable fuels are also being increased. You raise taxes everywhere. It rhymes quite badly with the rhetoric that I know the Green Party has had in the past, which we appreciate and which Sweden has received praise for internationally. Rather, there should be something like: the principle of the Green Party is simple. Taxes should be increased on what pollutes the environment and reduced on what is good for the environment, but not now that we are in government, because then we will raise taxes there too. This is pretty simple. If you compare the ethanol price and the petrol price, you should distinguish SEK 4 so that there should be an even distribution without overcompensation. Now it separates $1.50. What is it, then, that this government overcompensates? It's the gas. After all, it does not help to increase the tax on petrol as the government did when the tax on etano l was raised at the same time. The tax was raised by 1 crown on the ethanol while a pair of kerosene was raised on the petrol. That's not helping. No one from the EU has said that ethanol is currently being overcompensated. Therefore, the government will also reduce that tax from August. But why do you sink from August? The problem existed from 1 December when the government raised the tax. You shouldn't have raised it at all, you should have lowered it instead. The problem is that we cannot manage to carry out the green tax shift, but instead raise the tax.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1296	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that the government is now lowering the price of ethanol. You can have different theories as to whether you really needed to raise it or not. The government made the assessment that if we did not raise, we would be given back homework by the European Union. You're talking about tax exchange, Rickard Nordin. When you were in government, we in the Green Party were thinking about where the Green Tax Exchange of the Center Party went. We could only see that you were getting through major tax cuts on labour. No taxes were introduced on what is harmful to the environment and climate. I can respect this. The Green Party has no problem with, for example, reducing taxes on labour. So do we now with regard to some things. For example, some repairs are cheaper. It will create some jobs. But we also see that today there are no great opportunities to reduce taxes on labour further, given what we in today's Sweden have to make sure we have money for. The Green Party is in favour of a green tax shift, but we must also achieve climate and environmental objectives. Therefore, we will make sure that it will be cheaper to do what is good for the environment and the climate and more expensive to do what is not good.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1300	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with the Government's proposal on how the Nagoya Protocol can be implemented in Swedish legislation. As far as the Alliance is concerned, we have no objection in substance to the proposal. We think it is important that the implementation takes place as soon as possible. On the other hand, we have heard the concerns of several consultation bodies that the new rules may make research more difficult. That is why we think it is important that three years' review of the impact of the rules on research is carried out. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to express my support for Mr Allan's reservation in paragraph 3.
i-c1e82354135ec07b-1301	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to be very brief. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
