i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-2	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Hans Wallmark has asked the Minister for Defence how Sweden's ability to apply for membership of NATO would be affected by Swedish support for a UN resolution on the so-called humanitarian commitment. Wallmark has also asked whether the resolution affects Sweden's relations with our defence and security policy partners and how the parties in the defence agreement will be informed on this issue. The division of responsibilities within the government is such that it is I who should answer the interpellation. In order for there to be no doubt about the government's view of nuclear weapons, I would like to begin by highlighting the position that I announced in the foreign declaration last year: ..................................................... A distinction should also be made between the humanitarian commitment and the issue of a global nuclear ban. The humanitarian commitment was already under consideration in the first UN General Assembly committee last autumn, and a resolution was adopted by a large majority, including with Swedish support. One explanation of vote stated that Sweden supports the development of new effective legal instruments for nuclear disarmament, but that we do not see a ban as the only way forward. In the run-up to this year's General Assembly, the dominant question is whether the members will decide on a mandate to negotiate a global ban on nuclear weapons. A motion for a resolution with such a negotiating mandate has also been circulated and should, according to the government's assessment, be well placed to gain the support of most countries active in the field of disarmament. It is important to point out that this vote is not the end of the process but rather its beginning. If the resolution were to be adopted, the next step would be a UN-led negotiation in 2017. After that, the countries themselves will have to decide whether they wish to accede to the Convention which would result from such negotiations. For Sweden, as for other countries, there will therefore be a number of positions. In the short term, a Swedish position will be prepared within the Government Office for the vote at the UN General Assembly at the end of this month. Then we have to design a negotiating strategy based on Swedish interests, which also takes into account various security and defence policy aspects. Finally, once such a negotiation has been completed, Sweden, ultimately the Riksdag, has to examine the question of possible Swedish accession to a convention. In view of these various elements, the government will keep the parliamentary parties informed of our positions. Basically, the question is how best to achieve the goal of a nuclear-free world – a natural starting point for Swedish disarmament policy. All measures that are capable of contributing effectively to bringing the world closer to this goal are, in the government's view, worth trying seriously. The widespread frustration of the UN membership over the unwillingness of nuclear weapons states to fully comply with de facto disarmament commitments, not least through the Non-Proliferation Treaty, is very understandable. Unfortunately, the more prominent role that nuclear weapons have regained in recent years, not least in Russian rhetoric, gives rise to increased concern. The issue of a nuclear ban is complex. The assessment should be made on the basis of a comprehensive approach, taking into account, in addition to disarmament policy, aspects of public and humanitarian law and the impact on Sweden's security and defence policy. An important part of the government's decision-making documents is the broad examination of the various aspects of the issue by the International Law and Disarmament Delegation. Sweden is actively working to strengthen our security in the light of the deteriorating international situation, including in our neighbourhood. The starting point is the defence policy direction decided by the Riksdag by a large majority. The defence settlement between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Moderates was the basis for the decision, and the Minister for Defence keeps the parties concerned constantly informed about issues of importance for Swedish security and defence policy. The government's starting point is that it is possible to combine an active policy of international disarmament with enhanced security and defence policy cooperation within the framework of military alliance freedom.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-14	Mr President, I would like to There are now five more speakers registered. And this is probably one of the longest interpellation responses I've ever read. I understand that in a positive way. This is a difficult and complicated area. It is also an area that engages many people. And there are many different dimensions. I am highlighting some, and I am convinced that colleagues in this House from other parties will highlight other aspects. Mr President, I would like to That was a long answer, but nevertheless there is a lack of answers to some of the key questions I asked. I will repeat them at the end of my speech. Let me be clear that I agree with the Foreign Minister's point of departure on the threat posed by nuclear weapons, not least because it is now clearly part of the Russian defence doctrine. It has, I would argue, a frivolous approach in its doctrine, in its rhetoric, to nuclear weapons and the threat of nuclear weapons. We've seen it in different ways. When Denmark considered being part of the missile defence in Europe, the Russian ambassador in Denmark threatened that nuclear weapons could be deployed against Denmark. We have seen similar nasty rhetoric in connection with the illegal annexation of Crimea. And we see it now, only in the last few days, with the deployment of Iscander robots in Kaliningrad, which can be armed with nuclear weapons. We also saw it in the form of the so - called Easter greeting a few years ago. It was practiced with planes that came towards Swedish airspace. They never got into Swedish airspace. But it has also been suggested that it would have been possible for them to be nuclear. It is estimated that the Russian Federation has some 10 000 nuclear warheads. If we are to support this proposal in the UN, we must ask ourselves how it would affect Russia. Would that change with credibility the deteriorating image that Sweden is in? I am afraid that this kind of argument is a return to '70s rhetoric rather than taking the threats here and now seriously. Mr President, I would like to I think there are indications and assessments that a yes to this resolution would mean a no to NATO, and that there is a risk that it could impair cooperation with the United States. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree with that assessment or not? If she doesn't, I'd like to know on what grounds. If she agrees that it would mean a 'no' to NATO or make US cooperation more difficult, I have to ask why there has been such a silence, and why, in that case, no consultations have been made and no attempt has been made to anchor that position. If you close the door now, if the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirms that you are closing doors, then it is an arrogance of power that has been demonstrated. Therefore, there is reason to repeat the questions. Can the Minister guarantee that Swedish support for the resolution on the humanitarian commitment would not make Swedish NATO membership impossible? What signals has the Minister received in his talks with defence and cooperation policy partners regarding whether the resolution is compatible with Sweden's ability to cooperate fully with NATO and to fulfil our bilateral commitments, both in the immediate region and with the US? What signals has the Minister received in his talks with defence and security policy partners as to whether the resolution makes it difficult for us to obtain support in the event of a crisis or war? How does the Minister intend to proceed with a dialogue with the other parties in the defence agreement on what a Swedish yes to the resolution would mean for Swedish defence and security policy? The Minister mentioned that perhaps contacts will be made before the announcement is made. But what would be interesting is how to anchor a decision. Finally, what does the Minister say about what the Ministry of Defence and the Swedish Armed Forces say about this resolution?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-28	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. We must also look at what kind of weapons nuclear weapons are in order to understand why an international ban on nuclear weapons must be imposed. It is remarkable that I am arguing in the speaker's chair harder than Hans Wallmark for Putin to have no nuclear weapons by having an international nuclear ban. But perhaps we can agree on this once the concerns have been reassured by the foreign minister's reply. We'll see about that. I have taken inspiration from a book – the President may excuse me for advertising but it is a UN publication on the risks of a non-intelligent nuclear war. The book is old, but it still has value. Many think of the mad scientist and the mad general, but this book deals with a lot of research that also shows the risk of non-functioning decision-making structures. Nuclear weapons have all the tendencies that interfere with decision-making procedures. The definition of nuclear weapons is very short decision-making times. It is a very centralised decision-making power and very high stress. Low to medium stress can often help decision-making, but the time pressure and impact of these weapons are so high that the decision-making structures and cognitive abilities of the leaders are undermined. In addition, nuclear weapons have the effect that a single person can decide that 20 million other people will die, and it is not Putin that you kill. It is the Russian small businessman, the mother, the children and the kindergarten teacher who die. When you look at the impact of these decisions, it is not possible to have nuclear weapons in democratic states because they undermine democracy. Even in a common war, we saw such examples. During World War I, the trench soldiers eventually refused. In Russia there was a revolution when they said they had had enough. A common war has some small security guarantees so that you don't go beyond every rhyme and reason. There is a democratic counter-power, and there is time to act. The built-in function of nuclear weapons is that there is no time for democracy, not for discussion, not for a decision-making and management structure where you can talk to the opposite party in a way that can build trust. That is why democracy is incompatible with nuclear weapons, and it is therefore important that Sweden supports a ban on nuclear weapons. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to explain the processes in Sweden that lead us to have the opportunity to support this and will gladly support the decision by Moderates, Hans Wallmark and others. I would like to emphasise that nuclear weapons are incompatible with democracy. That is why we must be in favour of a ban. Then it's true as the government writes. A nuclear ban is not the only way forward, but it is the only possible goal. I therefore hope that we can agree in this House that Sweden will support this. If any of the partners we have on security issues in the outside world are concerned that we will become unreliable because we are advocating a nuclear ban, we can probably reassure them, together with our friends, that the best way to defend democratic governance and our view of the outside world is to implement a nuclear ban.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-38	Mr President, I would like to I think it is safe to listen to the Foreign Minister's response to this interpellation. The government adheres to Sweden's security policy line. It is clear, well-known and respected. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well, and it contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires a broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence and security cooperation and credible national defence capabilities. I've also read Hans Wallmark's interpellation carefully. It doesn't feel as safe. So, as I interpret the interpellation, he wants to prevent the government from voting in favour of the UN resolution on the goal of the world being nuclear-free. In the text, Wallmark basically makes it sound like it would be unfortunate if the government were to support humanism. There are signs today that the Government of Löfven wants to support the humanitarian commitment. This would be very unfortunate because a yes to that resolution is deemed to be incompatible with NATO membership. 中 Rather NATO than a nuclear-free world, that is. NATO membership is seen as a greater guarantor of peace than the decommissioning of weapons of mass destruction, according to Wallmark's logic. Wallmark's interpellation also points to one of the major disadvantages of NATO membership, that is, the relationship with nuclear weapons. If, however, the UN resolution were a reality, neither Wallmark nor anyone else had to worry about Putin's missiles in Kaliningrad. Why, then, discourage the government's efforts to press ahead with the resolution, which also has broad international support? Then you can also ask yourself the more fundamental question: Why do the bourgeois parties so much want Sweden to join NATO now? Such a decision is difficult to change, it would lock Sweden in a military alliance for incalculable time. It gives up our independence in the area of security policy. Alliance freedom has served Sweden well, and the burden of proof of abandoning alliance freedom should lie with those who want change. But bourgeois representatives are increasingly acting on the contrary, that it is they who want to retain the freedom of alliance that should prove why. It is a technique that makes it unnecessary to argue on the substance, which NATO advocates often avoid. Yet the answers of the Moderates and Hans Wallmark to how peace is to be created are more nuclear weapons, not less. Refurbishment is, or should be, as out-of-time as the Cold War. No one wants to see Putin and the next President of the United States – at least one unpredictable Trump – fighting over the nuclear button. Freedom of the Alliance is something that both NATO and Russia benefit from by contributing to a reduction in tension in the immediate region, and by not becoming, as non-aligned participants in international cooperation agencies, only two sides with high suspicion of each other. Our freedom of alliance plays an important role in our own security and in other countries. We should protect and develop it, not abandon it.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-46	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's fight against nuclear weapons is something that I think we should be proud of. This position is known for a long time. We do not have nuclear weapons in Sweden. Once the question was raised as to whether we should have nuclear weapons in Sweden, but we said no and we have stuck to it. It has proved to be more and more right. No one can be against disarmament in the world, not least the disarmament of nuclear weapons. Of course, the ultimate long-term goal is the complete disappearance of nuclear weapons. We saw the devastation when the United States dropped nuclear weapons in Japan. It was a terrible holocaust where innocent men, women and children were indiscriminately killed. That is the ultimate consequence of nuclear weapons. Anyone who has access to the nuclear button has such a huge power that no man should have. I therefore sincerely hope that Trump will not win the election in the United States. Let me return to the question of NATO: I do not think we should join it. But even if you wanted to, surely Sweden's fight against nuclear weapons would not be the one that would convict Sweden. This position has been known for a long time. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, this is a first step in a longer process in which the countries support the resolution. Each country chooses whether to support it. There is a large majority in the UN for this work. I think it would be very embarrassing if we, who have been fighting nuclear weapons for such a long time, voted against that majority – for fear of not being able to join NATO in the future. One very strong reason for NATO membership that has been highlighted is the increased tension and, not least, the Russian armament. There have been conflicts in the past, not least during the Cold War, as there have been much worse tensions compared to now. Even a world war has come. Then we had ice in our stomach and continued to hold on to our line of alliance freedom in peace and neutrality in war. It has served Sweden very well. We've had peace for 200 years, and that's an amazing achievement. As an alliance-free country, we also have a role in Europe to try to reduce tensions. After all, the greatest threat to both Sweden and Europe is that of rearmament and that tensions are increasing. This is fully in line with continuing to be non-aligned, to say no to NATO but, of course, to cooperate with NATO, the EU and the Nordic countries as we do. In this way we can contribute to the detour, and of course we will also stop the rearmament. In the Russian threat, nuclear weapons are part of this. We must be able to say clearly that we are opposed both to the increased demands for power on the part of Russia and to the armament of nuclear weapons. We must dare to have an independent voice in the world, where we stand up for what we think is right. This is what we have made ourselves known historically. It would be particularly unfortunate if, now, because of NATO, we did not even dare to say what we think about nuclear weapons. It is strange that nuclear weapons can be defended at all. They should be phased out. It will be long-term work, but of course we will be at the forefront of this. It does not jeopardise our cooperation in any way, for that is what we are investing in rather than in reconstruction and tension.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-56	Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party highlight the risk that both the host country agreement and now NATO membership will cause problems in pursuing an independent foreign policy. The framework would in any case be reduced. It is fascinating how this has been intensely denied by the proponents of NATO. They have said that there is no problem whatsoever in conducting an independent foreign policy in a NATO membership. But now Hans Wallmark comes as a NATO friend and says exactly the opposite, without us even being a member. So pout our backs, then, should we have already now so that, in practice, we do not piss off the United States. On the same night that this Parliament voted for the host country agreement it was revealed in a documentary in SVT how Norway was forced to bury the issue of the Nordic region as a nuclear-free zone at the time. The United States then threatened Norway with severe reprisals if it did not stop pushing the issue. The Norwegian Government buried the issue in an investigation that lasted a long time and led to nothing. This is not just any question. We are also critical of the imminent risk of Russia placing nuclear weapons in the form of Iscander robots as close as in Kaliningrad. It's not entirely safe, but there's definitely a risk. Perhaps, unlike Hans Wallmark, we are also critical of the US spending 350 billion dollars over the next decade in arming its nuclear weapons. If you study history, you can see that we have been on the brink of nuclear war many times by pure accident. The most famous case is probably the Russian officer who explicitly disobeyed his orders and thus prevented a nuclear war when they had been misinformed through their systems. Perhaps it should be stressed that he would not even have served that night but moved in for a colleague who was sick. That's how close we've been to nuclear war. Well, let me get back to today's topic. The pressure on foreign policy is perhaps the reason why Norway abstained when the first UN General Assembly Committee voted on the Humanitarian Pledge, which is about promoting a total ban on nuclear weapons. Sweden voted in favour of it. Thank you for that! But now we also have to adopt this. The last time I looked after-- and it's now a long time ago-- 125 states had come before us and signed this. Sweden's silence on this issue is much worse than the one Hans Wallmark thinks he hears – to the extent that silence can be heard.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-64	Mr President, I would like to What interesting posts! It was instructive and passionate posts. Hans must have felt that there was a front here that might even have been a bit of a pain in the ass. But on this issue we have a long history, where Sweden has made itself known as a proponent of peace and disarmament and has taken a very clear stand against nuclear weapons. I believe that we are internationally respected for our position. It's still the case. Although for a number of years we were pleased to see that both Russia and the United States were arming their nuclear weapons and removing some of their warheads, we now have a reality of 16 000 nuclear weapons. The situation is exactly what Carl Schlyter describes. The danger of something happening by mistake has increased. And it happens in a world where the tempo is much higher. Excitement and stress affect this. Sweden has contributed to a work that has been carried out to raise the thresholds so that nothing should happen by mistake. We have made technical contributions to this. We have a reality where the nuclear states have become increasingly arrogant. Weapon cramping and threats often involve nuclear weapons. At present, this is the only weapon of mass destruction that has not been banned internationally. We have banned biological and chemical weapons, as well as mines of various kinds and other types of weapons. But we haven't banned the most dangerous. We have a goal, which I read earlier. Sweden cooperates with like-minded countries to pay attention to the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons with the ultimate goal of abolishing all nuclear weapons. I very much hope that the Moderates will support this objective and that we can have no other objective than the abolition of all nuclear weapons. It would make our whole world much safer. Our starting point is that it is possible to combine an active policy of international disarmament with enhanced defence and security policy cooperation within the framework of military alliance freedom. Both are for the benefit of Sweden's security. The question is about the way forward. If we agree on the objective, the question is how we get there. Is an international ban the right method? We want to take a thorough approach. This government decided to come down from the spectator gallery on this issue and has taken an active part in the UN's work on disarmament. We have set up a delegation on international law and disarmament. And if Mr Wallmark needs advice, he can always turn to the party colleague who is sitting in this House and who is a very competent and capable member of this delegation and knows that we have dealt with this in a very thorough manner. We asked experts as well as civil society organisations and others to provide arguments, both for and against. This has been presented to us. We really wanted to do this in a thorough way, and now, of course, it is up to us on the part of the government to inform the other parties, and then we will decide what position we should take. This is the beginning of a very long process. In the end, it is about the way a convention is designed. If so, how is such a ban created? How is this to be observed? I don't think this affects our collaborations, Hans Wallmark. Instead, I believe that Sweden's position on this issue will be respected as it has historically been and as it still is.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-74	Mr President, I would like to I have never been to an SSU congress, but I think I know about what it sounds like there after these contributions. Thank you for these contributions, including those of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. They were interesting. Very few of them, however, have been about the issues I raise. However, the Foreign Minister raised it in the last ten seconds of her last speech, where she said that this will not bring any impact. Then I would like to ask a couple of control questions: in what way will this not affect? How does she know? Has she made sure of it? The Foreign Minister also said that the nuclear states are more arrogant. At least I can agree with what's in our neighborhood. There is reason to be worried and to be involved. Of the world's combined nuclear warheads, the Russian Federation has about half. We see a deterioration in behaviour and how this is an integral part of the defence doctrine. It is very easy to move from a conventional conflict to a nuclear one. We see that things are getting worse and worse, but you have not given an answer as to how this resolution would make it better and better. We now also see the deployment – the probable deployment, as Stig Henriksson says – of Iscander robots, which can be nuclear-bearing. Therefore, I think that the central point of the other five speeches is to see the real reality as it is. I don't mind someone giving a good answer to the question of how something that gets worse and worse can get better and better thanks to resolutions. As far as I know, none of the real nuclear nations is behind the resolution, nor is there any NATO country. Then I come to something that I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs, like me, will find interesting. Several of her party colleagues argued against NATO. I have full respect for that. I am well aware that there are several Members in this House who think that NATO is a bad idea. I respect that. But what they said at the same time was that if the consequence of this resolution were to close the door to NATO, they could live with it. I understand that if you're against NATO. What I have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs in particular is the constitutional basis. If you do this now and know that it has the consequences that some Social Democrats absolutely have nothing against, then the question is why you do not anchor and prepare this and have a deeper dialogue with the opposition parties. It is a question of giving up an opportunity. Once again, I understand that those who are against NATO do not have the slightest problem with giving up that opportunity. But I believe that a government that behaves in this way demonstrates the arrogance of power. Nevertheless, I think that the Foreign Minister has to come back to some of the questions I asked. What do our partners say? What do countries in our neighbourhood say about this resolution? Good neighbours like Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania – what are they thinking? What do the Ministry of Defence and the Swedish Armed Forces say about this? Is there a risk that it will also otherwise make our opportunities more difficult? Mr President, I would like to Again: With all due respect for the initiated, committed and emotional contributions – this is not an SSU congress. This is the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. Our responsibility is to take into account the interests of the nation. I believe that a strong tradition of being critical of the nuclear threat and the hell it represents can very well be reconciled with the interests of the defence and the nation. The questions remain to be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-84	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the President and the Foreign Minister, I have never been to an SSU congress. But if anyone in the SSU is watching this parliamentary debate, I can tell you that I am happy to come. I can talk about CETA, TTIP, abbreviated working hours, basic income and other interesting questions if you like. I'd love to come. If they want to discuss these subjects, Mr President, there is another matter. Hans Wallmark! I thought I took responsibility for the office here in Parliament, because I think that our highest function is to defend democracy. I thought that I devoted most of my speech precisely to explaining why nuclear weapons are in such clear contradiction to democratic decision-making. One person – or in some cases two, three, four or five people – has the opportunity to decide on the death of millions, and no one else can react to the decision. It's a fundamentally flawed system. That is why I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so right when she points out that we have banned all other similar types of weapons. Hans Wallmark is right – NATO has a nuclear doctrine built into its system. If you are contrary to it, how can you be part of it? This is true. On the other hand, if we succeed in this decision and finally implement it and start a process, then there is no need for a nuclear doctrine in NATO either, because there are no nuclear weapons. Then NATO will accept countries that do not have nuclear weapons, because it is forbidden. So this goes hand in hand. We are now starting a process that ultimately leads to NATO changing its doctrine. That's why I don't see this contradiction. I believe that the Americans – including other countries with which we associate – can see a profit in not having to pay for the replacement of the current nuclear submarines and the like. It saves hundreds of billions for them. The Russians have already begun. The Americans are about to begin. The English are discussing. If we can save hundreds of billions for them to build societies where we stop distrusting each other so terribly that we are considering the possibility of using nuclear weapons against each other, then we have come further than just nuclear bans.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-88	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, Sweden has a special position in the world. Sweden has a long tradition of mediation, diplomacy and peace-building work. The fact that countries and leaders have confidence in Sweden is, among other things, about our military freedom of alliance and our courage to contradict and question the actions of the great powers. There is a risk that the scope for play will be reduced in the event of NATO membership. Sweden should continue to invest more in peace-building work and military relaxation in our neighbourhood and in the world at all. Wallmark has asked the Foreign Minister some questions, but Wallmark's questions also require some answers to other questions. I repeat the question I asked Wallmark earlier. Does Wallmark see NATO membership as a greater guarantee of peace than nuclear disarmament?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-90	Mr President, I would like to The ongoing work on nuclear weapons is a response to the frustration that little is happening. It's armament rather than disarmament. There has to be a consequence of this at some point. We must act in the opposite direction. On the issue of NATO, the Swedish position is well known. They know that we have been at the forefront of nuclear weapons for a long time. They know we would never acquire nuclear weapons ourselves. That question can hardly be entirely decisive. Besides, we're supposed to fight for what we think is right. We cannot always think that we should stick well with one or the other, but, of course, we must stand up for what we believe in. Now that other forms of terrible weapons are already banned, it would be very strange if the very worst form, which causes the very worst devastation and, moreover, in a few seconds at the touch of a button, could lead to the death of millions of people, were to be allowed. There has been a great deal of concern around the world that more countries would acquire nuclear weapons. We remember how Iraq was. Turns out no evidence was found there, but it led to an invasion. As far as Iran is concerned, there is a great deal going on to prevent the acquisition of nuclear weapons there. But then, of course, even those countries that already have nuclear weapons must assume their responsibilities. That would be logical and consistent. It would be strange if we could not criticise Russia for their armaments and their nuclear weapons for being afraid of offending NATO countries that have nuclear weapons. No, of course we must be consistent. I've heard an eyewitness of what happened in Japan tell me about when she saw these dying people. We'll never experience it again.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-95	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark wants us to see reality as it is. At least on this point we can agree. But then we must also be able to see with both eyes open. We can criticise Russia's rearmament. But the United States is rebuilding its nuclear weapons with $350 billion in ten years. Britain is renovating its nuclear submarines—I don't remember the sum, but it was so big that it's hard to remember. We must be able to see and criticise that too. It is not that their nuclear weapons are more harmless or immune to pure accidents. They are at least as dangerous as Russia's – if you see reality as it is. Nuclear weapons are also a central part of NATO's capabilities, and they reserve the right to first use. It may be important to remember. The background to the Humanitarian Pledge and its predecessor, the Humanitarian Initiative, is the realization that there is no question of how civil society can cope with nuclear war. There will simply not be a civil society that can deal with it afterwards. For a NATO advocate, however, it is clearly more important to stand back now, for safety's sake, and rather take the risk of nuclear war and build-up, all in order to be able to crawl under NATO's nuclear umbrella – crawl in crouching.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-97	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to what Hans Wallmark wants to assert, this is a highly modern policy. We live in a troubled time and in an unsettled neighborhood. The work on nuclear disarmament is important. We must pursue a security policy in which tension is central; part of it is to find effective means of nuclear disarmament. I'll explain a little about the process. What we know today is that a draft resolution is put to the vote in the first committee at the end of October/November. If the resolution is adopted, negotiations will take place in two rounds next year. Once a negotiation has been concluded, Member States shall decide whether they wish to sign and ratify at national level the Convention resulting from a negotiation. It is a series of control stations that will also make demands on our part. The vote this autumn will be important, but it should not be overdramatised either. Even more important is the negotiation and the concrete outcome. Very much of our assessments will be based on that. Then we can also ultimately take a position through the Riksdag on whether Sweden should accede to that convention. That is why work has begun. We are therefore now careful to have a dialogue and contact with nuclear states and partners. We shall of course also inform about our procedure with regard to the other parties. Depending on the form of the ban, it can be a very important complement to existing agreements in this area: Non-Proliferation Treaty, CTBT Test Ban and the nuclear-free zones that exist in several continents. It is a fact, as I said, that for other weapons – both biological and chemical – there are prohibition conventions, but for nuclear weapons one is missing. As we have already heard, the 136 countries which have already said that they support such a ban and the work on a convention are currently very upset, so we are in good company if we should choose to do so. It is difficult to assess the exact nature of the aid in other European countries at present. The text has just been circulated. In most capitals the question is prepared just as here with us. At the same time, there are intense diplomatic contacts, especially in New York. We intend to contribute to a constructive climate for debate. We've already done that. We have tried to bridge over as much as possible in those discussions. The more countries engage in negotiations, the better. This increases the chances of real progress. Probably there are no conditions for a total European unity. However, in both the EU and NATO circles, there are several countries which, like Sweden, pursue an ambitious and active disarmament policy. Our goal is to become a broad group of countries that are jointly taking steps towards disarmament. I would like to hear from the Moderates that it is desirable and that we share the same goal. Our hope is also to get the nuclear states involved – if not from the beginning, at least in the long term. I don't suppose we're under any illusions about that at the moment. But we have to deal with the fact that they are attaching increasing importance to their nuclear possession. That is the background to the frustration. It is also a position and a mark from 136 countries currently saying: That must be enough. We need to see another development because the situation we are in right now is so dangerous.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-107	Mr President, I would like to Carl Schlyter of the Green Party offered to come and speak on any question at an SSU congress. That's what you have to do when no one in your own party listens to you. There have been five other speakers in the debate who in various ways have been engaged and argued against nuclear weapons, and I have full respect for their contributions. Nevertheless, I would like to say that they must reflect on whether they may contribute to a small simplification. If it had been as simple as they say, the Minister for Foreign Affairs would not have had to give a reply that is three sides long, but could have done with a yes or a no. I think that the foreign minister's way of arguing, not least in the last speech, shows that it is complicated. It is an issue that contains many different dimensions. Otherwise you wouldn't hesitate and don't look at all the different lyrics that go around. There could be consequences. We have said this several times. The other five speakers feel that although it has the consequence that we cannot become NATO members, it does not matter, because we are still against NATO. Again, I have full respect for being against NATO. However, if it has such consequences, you can make very high demands on how to prepare the case and how to anchor it. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I have repeated the question twice, and I am happy to conclude by doing so a third time. What is the recommendation from the Ministry of Defence on these issues? What is the recommendation from the Swedish Armed Forces? If you now call for what the Moderates and other parties think, you can involve them at a very early stage in a process that can have very important consequences. That has been the fundamental question for all my questions. In addition, I think we should be genuinely concerned about what is happening in our neighbourhood with the Russian Federation and a new defence doctrine with 10 000 nuclear warheads and the new deployment of Iscander robots in Kaliningrad.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-114	Mr President, I would like to We always try to have an objective debate in a good mood, Hans Wallmark. I appreciate you doing that. I have admitted that it is a complex issue. How is such a ban designed so that we can really get compliance? But it must begin by setting a goal, being credible in our own position and having the goal clear to us. It is a negotiation, and it is also a preparation of the matter that I have tried to describe. That is precisely why discussions are taking place in the Government Office. How do we gather all the opinions we have received? How can we inform the other parties? How do we get involved and find out what other countries think? How do we work towards the nuclear states? How do we talk to NATO? All this work is under way. We will also inform the parties of this. Eventually, of course, we will also have to vote and take a stand within a few weeks. We're running out of time. But we are preparing the matter as thoroughly as possible. It's a little exciting for me. 20 years ago, I participated and protested with a whole world against France's nuclear tests in Mururoa. At least I wasn't very welcome in France at the time. Since then, very positive things have happened. But the threat from nuclear weapons lingers. Now both our neighbourhood and our surrounding world are becoming increasingly uncertain. The danger of nuclear weapons is a reality of security policy. We must be a strong voice for global nuclear disarmament. That's my focus. Our objective must be clear. It is not humane to give up, said Alva Myrdal, although we can see that it is difficult. That is the attitude we must take. I hope that we will reach political agreement.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-119	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me what average age the Gripen C-plan has to be scrapped to build the new Gripen E and if I see any risk of impaired defence ability during the production of Gripen E. He has also asked me how I feel about the alternative of selling or renting JAS Gripen C to other countries instead of taking parts from working aircraft and whether this will be a better deal than disassembly of working planes to use the parts of these machines. Finally, Mikael Oscarsson has asked if there are now – for economic and security policy reasons among other reasons – reasons to change the current decision and to do as Brazil and build JAS E with new parts and not scrap Gripen C-plan. JAS 39 C has to date flown for about 1 100 flight hours per aircraft. In recent years, flight time has been about 120 hours per aircraft per year. Flight time in relation to the age of aircraft is here a more accurate measure. In the annual report for 2015, the Swedish Armed Forces also reported a rising flight time take-off: 2015 was 11 287 flight hours. JAS 39 C/ D will be used in the Swedish Armed Forces' operations until the mid-2020s. In the defence policy directional decision, the government has stressed the importance of maintaining the operational capability of the combat aircraft system during the re-armament period. The operational availability requirements for aeroplanes must be taken into account in planning for re-arming from JAS 39 C/ D to JAS 39 E. The Swedish Armed Forces are now analysing, with the support of the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, how it can be done. With regard to commercialism and exports to other countries, we need to be flexible in order to create long-term cooperation. This means, among other things, that both rental and sale of JAS 39 C/ D or JAS 39 E will be different possible solutions to promote cost-effective material and logistics supply. The current assessment is that it will be more cost-effective for the government to reuse JAS 39 C/ D than to completely re-produce JAS 39 E. Sweden has the option to choose the most rational solution for us. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Government in the 2017 Budget Bill has requested the Parliament's authorisation to decide on the assignment and transfer of equipment during 2017 – 2020 provided that the material can be disposed of in the light of the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities. Creating a more favourable environment for the re-arming of JAS 39 E through such a mandate is in line with the defence policy orientation decision for 2016 – 2020.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-123	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. JAS 39 Gripen is of the utmost importance for Sweden's defence capabilities, not least in the tough security policy environment we find ourselves in. We have seen, particularly in the last month, how this environment has deteriorated. This concerns both the situation between Russia and America, where they are down to as low levels as during the Cold War, and the fact that Kaliningrad has been given new weapons. It is also about our own neighbourhood becoming much tougher. That is why it is important to look at JAS 39 Gripen and the transition from Erik to Caesar, and that is why I have put the interpellation. When we made the decision in 2012, it was said that it would be an It has proved to be much more than that; it is basically a completely new aircraft. The answer I have received says that JAS 39 C to date has flown an average of 1 100 flight hours per aircraft. It is said that these aircraft will have up to 7,000 hours. This means that we have used about 15% of capacity. If we were to continue flying as in 2015, we could go on for many decades. If so, there are up to half a million flying hours left to take out on our aircraft. The question arises: How much is saved per aircraft by taking out parts from JAS 39 Caesar and using them for Erik? And which parts are specific? These are questions to which I would like answers. I also have a question about how our defence capabilities are going. It is said here that we fly 120 hours a year on our aircraft. It's low. In the Czech Republic, for example, there are 170 hours per year. The question is what will be the consequence of the reconstruction? We have six divisions. Is that going to mean that a division is going down in debilitating ability? What effect does that have on our ability? One feature on TV4 last spring said that we had only 25% availability that week. What are the consequences of scrapping workable planes? A further question is on the table. The newspapers say that both Slovakia and Botswana are very interested in buying aircraft. Botswana has signaled an interest in between eight and twelve aircraft. For Slovakia, too, this may be something similar. This is about Caesar's plan, and it is the Swedish state that is being bought. The question is, What are the consequences? Isn't it better to use them like that than to break functioning aircraft?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-130	Mr President, I would like to Let me put it this way: How did Oscarsson feel when he was pressing the button here in Parliament a few years ago and making the decision that we should have 60 JAS Gripen E? How did Oscarsson feel when the previous government, which the Christian Democrats were part of the basis for, was involved in making this decision? Did Oscarsson not know what the meaning of the decision was? You're standing here asking about scraps and details. How well have you been informed when you made the decision, and how did you take the reasoning of the previous government constellation when you presented the proposal? We were involved in making a deal on this. The background to the settlement was that it was absolutely necessary to raise the level of our fighter aircraft if we were to be able to measure with the technological development of combat aircraft in our environment and in what is happening in the immediate area. It was inevitable to make a decision on the upgrading of JAS Gripen. It was a fundamental requirement in the whole of this decision, which the previous government – which KD was part of – put forward proposals for and which Oscarsson sat in parliament and voted in favour of, to take components from C/ D and A machines to place in E-machines and thus contribute to a cheapening of the re-arming of the air force. This decision – and perhaps Oscarsson is also mentioned – showed that the core of Swedish combat flying capability will be JAS Gripen C/D until the mid-2020s. This is not a process that ends next year, as there will be 60 JAS Gripen Erik there, so it is a process that will now last for a number of years. What we get in the end, when we have implemented this, is a fighter aircraft that is relevant to face what we then have in our near world. I assume that even when the decision was made, and probably discussed within the alliance parties, Oscarsson informed us about the types of battle plans and the conditions for development in our neighbourhood. He must then also have the capacity to compare what the E version means in comparison with the C/ D version in the encounter with a possible opponent. These are the things that are essential in this context. I think we should also remember another thing: a combat aircraft system is not based solely on the number of aircraft and flight drivers. Effective air defence also requires such things as a sensor chain to detect an enemy. There is a need for operational combat control that can lead the various air operations, weapons are required and jamming systems are required. It is also important to have a basic organisation that works and that can clarify the aircraft, refuel, recharge and so on. These are the things that one must dimension in a whole when discussing the size of an air force. We need to be clear that we cannot just focus the discussion on how many E-, how many C/D- and possibly A-plans we should have. There is also a need to discuss the breadth of the organisation as a whole. There are many such pieces that have to be adapted if you are to take the reasoning that Oscarsson is doing here. I would like to ask you: Were you not aware that it was about taking parts of C/ D and A planes to build E-planes when you yourself were involved in making the decision once in Parliament?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-138	Mr President, I would like to I think that you as a politician should be open and honest and that you should take in information. The decision that was taken and that was also taken by the Social Democrats in its time, in 2012, was taken as the best. Since then, a lot has happened, Minister of Defence. There has been a deterioration in the security situation. It is important to take on board the information that is available here and now. Although it was a long speech by the Minister for Defence, I did not get an answer on how much is saved per aircraft and which parts are involved. For example, the engine cannot be used. What are the parts to use? If Sweden is now to divest JAS C, it is positive that other countries will buy these plans from Sweden and not directly from Saab, as South Africa has done. But if we are now to dispose of these plans to Botswana and Slovakia and first to remove parts from them, then we must probably put the parts back again. Can the Secretary of Defense sort out the concepts there: How will it all work out? These plans aren't broken today. They're flying. The question then has to be asked: is it economically justifiable, and is it still a sensible decision based on our ability? Or is there reason to adjust this? We also know that a large proportion of our defence expenditure goes to our JAS plans. They're very important. Then it is urgent to find out how we use the money. Is there a reasonable way to change this? The questions are: How much is saved per aircraft? Which parts are removed? And if you are then to export plan of the C version to Botswana or Slovakia, you must put these parts back in place? In the interpellation I also asked how old these aircraft really are. I have not received a direct answer to that question. I've learned that the plan has gone about 15% of its life span. But you can count a little on your own. They started to be delivered in 2002, and the last delivery came last year, 2015. That must mean that on average these plans may be eight years old. It would be interesting to have this highlighted in the next post. The Secretary of Defense asks me if it does not seem unpleasant and so on, but the question is ultimately to himself: Is it not unpleasant not to get to the bottom of these questions and to know for sure that we are doing the right thing and actually using the money as efficiently as we can? It must not be so bad that we sell these fine aircraft of the C variant to Botswana or Slovakia and have to put back the parts that we have removed. I would like to have that question clearly highlighted in the next speech.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-147	Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of questions about one detail after another and possible costs for specific components. I am not going to touch on such issues. I would suggest Oscarsson to contact Saab or the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and go through this in detail, because I understand that there is a great demand for knowledge at bolt and nut level in these contexts. We have 60 aircraft of the C/ D version that will be used to convert to E-airplanes. Components from the 60 C/ D aircraft, and partly also from A/ B aircraft, will be used to make production more rational and economical. The remaining aircraft can then be used for Swedish export initiatives if you wish. The parliamentary decision that Oscarsson himself participated in means that the Swedish Armed Forces have some flexibility to decide how much to use of old planes and how much should be pure new production. It is an evaluation that the Swedish Armed Forces are currently devoting time and effort to. If KD now believes that we should operate parallel systems, we should also evaluate the experience of the Viggen system, for example, when we had five different versions. After all, we could see that it was cost-driven to run them in parallel. It's the same thing if you operate two systems next to each other. It's cost-driven. I also think that there may be reason to address in a future defence preparation what was discussed in the previous defence committee, namely if we are to order additional Gripen E. It is a discussion that can then come up. I do not see the end result of that reasoning. This was mentioned in the previous defence committee and mentioned in the report outside the 60 Gripen E proposed by the previous government. It should be made clear that any new commitments in the field of materials must be balanced with the commitments that exist with regard to the army, aviation and the navy. In addition, everything must be put into an operational whole. It is not so simple that just because a question appears in a newspaper article, we are going to change our entire material planning, cancel projects and start over. This does not lead to results and strength in the context. Basically, the decision we have taken must be implemented and firm. Then, in the defence preparation that I will appoint next year, you will look at whether to increase the number of aircraft within the framework of the fighter aircraft and how it will be financed. However, I do not think that it leads to much being asked here without having an idea of the costs and without having gone to the bottom of the complexity of the systems.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-154	Mr President, I would like to To be honest, I don't think I asked questions, as the Secretary of Defense put it, bolt and nut level. One cannot say that the questions I repeated several times– how much do you save on an aircraft, and what parts are they about? – requires answers to that level of detail. What I mean is, what is it that is removed-- is it, for example, the catapult chair or something else? And should the parts be put back again if the plan is to be exported? I think these are fully relevant issues. The Secretary of Defense will probably have to get used to getting these questions from others as well. He must be able to give a clear answer to them. If the Kingdom of Sweden, with its proud defence industry led by JAS, exports its fine aircraft in the C version to Botswana and Slovakia, a responsibility arises. These countries have not been planning to have these plans for five six years, but have been planning to have them for 20 or perhaps 30 years, which is their lifetime. Then our responsibilities remain. The Secretary of Defense was at the end on the question of whether we should have ten more planes and what it would cost. To that work I think you should send the question to look at what it would cost to keep the plan of the C version. I believe that it will be a much better deal for taxpayers, and that could mean that we will not have any powers in the extremely tough security policy environment in which we find ourselves. I ask again: how much is saved per aircraft? What are the parts? And if we can export these up to 20 planes to both countries, do we have to rescrew these parts?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-158	Mr President, I would like to I hope Oscarsson now listens to what I'm saying. What I said in the last post was that the remaining aircraft can then be used in, among other things, Swedish export initiatives. Then I had first explained that you take components out of 60 planes, and the remaining aircraft can then be used for export initiatives. There's an answer. I had to repeat it, because apparently you didn't listen to what I said. It will then be completely wrong if I go in and comment on Botswana and Slovakia. There are also two deals that are not finished. We have to take responsibility for the business relationships we have with other countries and the possible processes that are. I am not going to stand by and debate individual business deals and what will become of them in the long run, because those business deals are not ready. Standing by and speculating about such things is completely wrong, and it sends out completely the wrong signals. However, we must have defence exports in Sweden. We're going to export JAS Gripen, too. It is good to do this, because it means sharing costs. That means export income. This is fundamentally positive for Sweden. But to stand here and discuss two different countries is something I am canceling. I'm not gonna do that.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-161	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me the reasons why the Finnish Transport Administration and I have opposing views on the question of whether the government has commissioned the work to review the Western Link and on what circumstances and facts my opinion on the matter is based. The Swedish Transport Administration's mission to develop focus data for transport infrastructure planning for the period 2018–2029 included three analyses. The first was what the direction of the transport infrastructure should be if traffic develops according to the Swedish Transport Administration's forecast based on previously decided policy. The second was what the focus of the transport infrastructure should be if traffic develops according to the Swedish Transport Administration's forecast with so far decided and announced measures. And the third was what the focus of the transport infrastructure should be if traffic develops according to the Swedish Transport Administration's forecast with assumptions on additional instruments and measures to reduce the transport system's greenhouse gas emissions cost-effectively. The Finnish Transport Agency was commissioned to present an assessment of whether objects in the current national traffic law-crossing plan for the development of the transport system for the period 2014-2025 are significantly affected by the conditions for the focus analyses. Items where works contracts were started would not be subject to the assessment. In Trafikverket's report on the assignment received on 30 November 2015, Trafikverket writes that the expected traffic increase at total level does not differ significantly between the three directions and that the similarity between the directions is therefore great. The entire assignment was aimed at providing the Government with a basis for the work on the infrastructure bill decided by the Riksdag. In such a basis, it is natural that the Finnish Transport Administration makes analyses and assessments and looks at effects in order to provide a good description to the government. The fact that the Finnish Transport Administration is given the task of carrying out the analyses and assessments I have just described is not the same as the fact that the objects would be subject to review. This stage of planning is not about individual objects, and Trafikverket has also reported the assignment without suggestions for some re-priorities of objects in the existing plan. The infrastructure bill submitted by the Government to the Riksdag is based on the Finnish Transport Administration's documentation and descriptions. Nor does the infrastructure bill deal with specific objects in existing plans.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-167	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Alliance government decided in previous national plans to build the Western Link in Umeå. It is an important infrastructure project for an expansive region. It is both about managing the environmental quality inside the central parts of Umeå and about continuing expansion. It is also, in various respects, a project that is important for the industry that exists in the city. It's about being able to get to the freight yard and other things. Mr President, I would like to The new government, which Anna Johansson is part of, commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to review previously decided but not procured road projects on the basis of three new criteria, which the Minister of Infrastructure described, before the work on the infrastructure bill – it is also well described by the Minister. We Moderates asked the parliamentary investigation service to look at what road projects this could be about. There were about 20 road projects around Sweden that had been decided by the Alliance Government, which were in national planes and would be affected by this. One of those projects was the Western Link. It is in my constituency of great interest. Then the question is whether new governments are looking over old governments' in national plans decided projects or not. That is a rather unusual measure, Mr President. It is not often that the government goes in and does it, but it usually rolls, so to speak. Once new infrastructure projects have been picked up, they usually lie down. I can also note that the infrastructure bill now submitted to Parliament is relatively thin. It does not identify very many projects. You might think that's both good and bad. But that means something in the next decision point, which is then an action plan that the government has at its disposal. As far as I can understand it will probably spring 2018. Thus, new infrastructure projects should be identified in detail. An interesting question then arises on the basis of the new directives that have been submitted. Mr President, I would like to I have a very simple question to ask the Minister, who can be answered with a very simple yes or no. Can the Minister promise that the Western Link in Umeå will remain in the new national plan, which the government will decide on? The question can be answered with a simple yes or no.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-172	Mr President, I would like to As I have said in relation to everything that may or may not be included in the trans-modal national plan for 2018 – 2029: This will be reflected in the decision taken by the government in 2018. I just want to make one thing clear. The Finnish Transport Agency has not received a government directive to reconsider any objects. The Finnish Transport Agency has been commissioned by the Government to carry out an analysis of objects in the current national plan based on a new analysis of transport flows and needs. This has been done by Trafikverket, and Trafikverket's response is clear that there are no major changes in the expected traffic volumes, i.e.: mainly current priorities remain. I think it is reasonable that we use taxpayers' money in the most socio-economically effective way, as efficiently as it is possible at all. This means, of course, that the decisions made by the Riksdag and the Government should be based on as recent, as up-to-date and as good forecasts as possible. It is the task of the Finnish Transport Administration to provide this to the government, and the Swedish Transport Administration has done so. This mission is quite general, and it is about assessing from three different scenarios how the objects in the current national plan relate to the new forecasts that can be made. Unfortunately, I cannot answer the question of an individual and a termed object in a national plane. But maybe there are others who can.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-176	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to remind those listening to the debate that the Minister did not say yes or no to the question I asked, which was very simple: will the Western Link remain in the new national plan, which the government of which Anna Johansson is a minister will decide on? There is no yes or no to that question from the Minister. It is a relatively simple question. Normally, when the new government lays down a national plan, the old one moves on. There is a lot more to be done if changes are to be made in this. We can discuss for a long time what is done or not done. The KU also has a lot to look at in this regard. In any case, this is the case: the Minister could easily say, Mr President, that this project is not under review in any way. And then it will remain in the national plan. I also interpreted it as what the Minister was trying to convey when she spoke in local media back in Västerbotten: that there was no reason for concern. I see this, Mr President. It was such a simple question: will a previously decided road project remain in a national plan or not? If the Minister cannot answer yes or no to that question, it is the project, the Western Link in Umeå, actually threatened. And the other 20 road projects around the country are also in some sense threatened. If that were not the case, the Minister could say that they will remain in the national plan and that they do not intend to make any change about it. So with a simple yes, the Minister could say that this will remain in national planes. But the Minister cannot say that, and then there must be some sort of concern on the part of the Minister, too, if that is really the case. Otherwise, I do not understand why you cannot answer yes or no to such a simple question. I put the same question to the Minister again: will the Western link remain in the national plan that the new government will decide – yes or no?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-181	Mr President, I would like to I have been asked about several objects that are mentioned as flaws in the current national plan. I have also been asked about objects that are wanted and identified in national plans. My answer has been the same to all these questions, namely that we do not take a stand on individual objects until 2018. That is my message on this issue too. However, on the question of whether there is cause for concern about the Western Link, I have replied that there is currently no indication that this would be the case, and I can easily repeat this in this debate. But at this stage I do not go in and guarantee any objects in the next national plane, whether this object or any other object. It is a principled approach that I intend to continue to adhere to.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-183	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the very clear message to both Umeå and the advocates of the Western Link and everyone else in Sweden who can also be affected by this! The Minister cannot therefore answer a simple yes to the question of whether objects already decided by the previous government. That's what this is about. Anyone who listens should be aware that these are road projects that have already been decided by the previous government and that have entered the national plan, and now you actually look at them in a way. If we were not to look at them, we would actually be able to say quite simply in this speaker's chair that no, we would not be looking at this. There is no reason to be worried about the 20 road projects at all, because we will not review them – they are stuck in national plans. There's no middle ground between yes and no. Either the Minister can guarantee that you will not touch these objects or it may well be that you snatch these objects away. I think it is good when debates are clear, Mr President. If you do not give this information, it means that the message to local politicians and entrepreneurs in Umeå, as well as to those in the region affected by it, is: Go down and influence the government in this, otherwise this object risks disappearing from national plan! This is not a wishable object that is in the distant future, so it is here a previously decided object that the Minister is now causing concern about.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-189	Mr President, I would like to I would say that it is not the Minister who is causing concern about this project. On the other hand, it is quite obvious, I think, that when a decision is to be taken on a new national plan, an assessment is also made of whether previous assessments still exist. Sometimes reality changes, and then it is reasonable that even political decisions change from the new reality. I have said before, and I maintain, that there is very little evidence today that the Western Link would not get rid of as planned. On the contrary, everything is speaking because it remains exactly as planned. However, we cannot anticipate the work to be done by the Finnish Transport Administration. Today, there is nothing to suggest that the Western link is under threat. Therefore, there is no reason to tear up a totally unnecessary concern, either in Umeå or anywhere else, about the other objects that lie in the current national plan. We have said before that we have not touched any objects in national planes, and we do not intend to tear up any decisions in the national plan in force. But, of course, a new assessment must be made whether the reality has changed significantly since the last decision was taken.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-193	I'd like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. If you are to lead a country, you must have a plan and be prepared for reconsideration when necessary. That is why I started a review of the moderate migration policy, which means, among other things, temporary residence permits as the main rule and sharper supply requirements. One is naive if one believes that the global refugee crisis and its impact on Sweden is over. I think that Sweden, as part of a long-term sustainable migration policy, needs to have just temporary residence permits and sharper supply requirements and keep them. But what does the Prime Minister think?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-197	Madam President, I would like As far as re-examination is concerned, I think a great deal more of that product is needed before Anna Kinberg Batra can talk about it so much. As far as migration policy is concerned, this government has shown that we are doing what is necessary when it is needed. We will continue to do so. We will never put ourselves in such a situation as we were in last autumn. I am pleased that we were able to reach a broad agreement on migration policy. It strengthens Sweden. We will continue to work hard to ensure that we have a situation in Europe where all the Member States assume their responsibilities, which is absolutely necessary. Of course, we will also be working towards greater global responsibility, because this is actually a global event for which we must all take responsibility. If you first look at the global context, the UNHCR has been given a mandate to consider what migration policy should look like globally. It will affect Sweden. I am very pleased that we, as hosts with the United States in New York, were able some time ago to get more countries to say yes to receiving quota refugees as well. It will make it easier to get more countries to say that they will be involved in financing jobs, schooling and health care for refugees in the neighbourhood. We have a discussion in Europe, and there is now a proposal from the Commission on what it should look like. It is being discussed in the various countries. Both the global discussion and the discussion with the EU will probably affect Swedish legislation. In view of this, I think it is natural for us to express that we should have regulated immigration and regulated migration. We shall stand up for the right of asylum, and we shall have order and order in our reception. It's the corner pillars. But I also want to see what EU and global rules will mean. Then I think we are ready to discuss the details of Swedish legislation.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-204	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. But now it is neither Barack Obama, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, nor Angela Merkel who stands opposite me, but it is the Swedish Prime Minister. And my question is about what the Swedish Prime Minister thinks. Is this to be so difficult to be clear about in this House? We now have temporary legislation that came into being on the basis of demands that, among others, we Moderates put forward. But what does Stefan Löfven think that Sweden should do to get a long-term sustainable migration policy? Is it good or bad that temporary residence permits and strict supply requirements are actually something that should apply in Sweden?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-206	Madam President, I would like I think it's a good thing it's this prime minister standing here and no one else. It sounds at Anna Kinberg Batra as if Sweden could live in isolation and that we do not have to take any account of our world. I believe that Anna Kinberg Batra knows very well that some of the European legislation affects us very much. A little depending on whether regulations or directives come, it gives us more or less room to make our own laws. What we should be clear about is that we are not going back to the situation we had last autumn. We shall stand up for the right of asylum, we shall have regulated immigration and we shall have order of reception. It's the base itself. That's where we'll get back to you. If, when we are then going to remove the temporary legislation, we do not say that we should also take into account the legislation that actually affects us, that would be a very big mistake. The most important thing now is to ensure that the whole of Europe takes on its responsibilities. In this context, we can help more people, and Sweden can make a better effort.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-209	Madam President, Prime Minister. In Sunday's party leader debate on television Stefan Löfven said among other things: The Swedish Democrats are a Nazi party. He also said that I joined the Swedish Democrats when they still had swastikas at their meetings. These are proven lies. Yes, there were doubts in the party at the beginning. I've never denied that. I would say that there have been doubts in all parties, not least when they were very young as parties, although the picture is, of course, more complex than the media debate wishes to assert. But that does not mean, Madam President, that you can lie anyway, especially if you are the Prime Minister of Sweden. Yesterday, when we had a party leader debate here in the Riksdag, Stefan Löfven claimed that the resources for health care and care are being reduced with the policy of the Swedish Democrats. It's not true; it's a lie. He also claimed that we did not vote in favour of our own budget. And then we'll talk about autumn 2014. That's also a lie. Madam President, I would like My question is, why is Stefan Löfven lying so much?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-213	Madam President, I would like As for the fact that the Swedish Democrats are a Nazi party, I said immediately afterwards that the party has Nazi roots. That is what I have always said, and that is what applies. The Swedish Democrats have Nazi roots; so it is. I don't think anyone has to doubt that. I recommend reading the Expo White Paper on the Swedish Democrats. Take a moment to read it! As far as welfare billions are concerned, we are talking about minus 40 billion. It's a manslaughter battle against Swedish welfare. That's where you're standing. Jimmie Åkesson says you had doubts in the beginning. Yes, you did. And it's not just doubt, you have the Nazi roots that you have. Jimmie Åkesson talks about what it was like in the beginning. But I am now talking about the autumn of 2016, when one of your foremost representatives – the economic-political spokesperson – makes charades, I was about to say. But he shows how Nazis tell anecdotes about how Nazis kick dead animals and make references to Jews and laugh. Then there's something wrong, Jimmie Åkesson. There is no doubt in the beginning; it is here and now. And one of your MPs writes a motion that alludes to anti-Semitic theories. There is no doubt in the beginning. You are a party of Nazi roots, and you are a racist party. You'll have to stand up for that, and you'll have to live with it, or you'll do it again. When you talk about your zero tolerance, my answer is still: there is a chance for the Swedish Democrats to have zero tolerance against such practices, and that is that you are abstaining. It's the only chance for you to have zero tolerance.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-220	Madam President, I would like That was not really an answer to my question, which was: Why is Stefan Löfven lying so much? I have four found lies here. The second can certainly be discussed in different contexts, and I share the Prime Minister's view in the sense that what he mentions is inappropriate – absolutely. But that's not an answer to the question why Stefan Löfven is lying. That is why I simply want Stefan Löfven to answer the question. Why does Stefan Löfven lie so much?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-221	Madam President, I would like No, I'm saying I don't. The Swedish Democrats have Nazi roots; that's just the way it is. There were swastikas there, yes, and above all a breadth of Nazi symbols. That's how it was. Read Expo White Paper! There will be 40 billion less to welfare. That's it. You say you add some money, Jimmie Åkesson, but then you drag away too. The sum is -40 billion. You don't come from that. It's the truth, and I stand by it. It is not so difficult to read the paper and take note of what is happening in the Swedish Democrats. After all, not a week goes by without any of the principal representatives of the Swedish Democrats – I am not talking about the public here now, but I am talking about the main representatives – acting like no one else does. No other party would tolerate this. That's the truth, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-225	Madam President and the Prime Minister. Sweden is divided socially and regionally. We see an ongoing division between those who have jobs and those who do not, between those who come new to our country and those who are born and raised here and between those who have a long education and those who do not have education. It worries me that the division is increasing. If you look at the forecasts the government itself is developing, you can see that in the coming years we will have up to 1 million people living in alienation. Of the unemployed, up to 80 per cent will belong to really vulnerable groups, which will find it very difficult to get to work. This is a very worrying development. I want us to break the division, and I want us to focus on integration. We now have a prime minister and a government that does not even take the word There are different ways to break the division, not least among new arrivals. It is about education, and there is no political conflict there. It is about language learning, and it is about finding more jobs. The measures the government usually highlights when talking about jobs include 5,000 state preparedness jobs – as if 5,000 jobs would do the job against the enormous challenge facing Sweden. You also usually lift up fast tracks. Today, Arbetsförmedlingen has described that 11 out of 14 fast tracks have problems and that 5 fast tracks do not work at all. A while ago Stefan Löfven commissioned Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg to create more simple jobs. I would therefore like to ask Stefan Löfven: What are these simple jobs?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-229	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think it is appropriate to end the numbering when it comes to exclusion and instead look at the reality as it is. Sweden is divided – yes. We had eight years of bourgeois politics, as the alienation areas grew. We got quite a few more exclusion areas. This was due, among other things, to underinvestment in education. Today we have a situation where there are 100,000 jobs that are not filled because companies and employers do not find the right skilled workforce. For me, it's a very clear signal that we're going to educate people. More people must be given the opportunity to take the jobs that exist, and that is why we invest in 70 000 training places around Sweden. We have shifted the policy, from tax cuts and cuts – the cuts you made in the field of education, for example, Annie Lööf – to investing. We invest in infrastructure, we invest in housing and we invest in welfare. Of course, more jobs will also come. If you build, there'll be more jobs. There will be jobs for civil servants in the construction industry, for carpenters, for armers and for concrete workers. There will be work for those who make the water tap luminaires. There will be work for those who make windows and doors. It'll be work when you invest, Annie Lööf. That's why we should keep investing. There are different groups in the labour market. Some have a very high level of education, and some have upper secondary education. Then there is also a group that has very low levels of education and has also reached the age group. Of course, they need other jobs, and that's why we're supposed to have standby jobs. I can also imagine more subsidised jobs. When we talk to people in private business, they say that they have a lot of work that is not done out there in the companies. The business community knows better than you and I know what tasks it is, Annie Lööf. But they see that they exist, and they can also contribute. When we switch this up to the private business community, more people will be able to find work – far more.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-234	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, although I may not be able to say that it was an answer. It was a classic non-answer. I asked what simple jobs Stefan Löfven sees in front of him and how it is that the government's praiseworthy – let's say – fast track does not work. Arbetsförmedlingen says that 11 out of 14 have problems, and 5 doesn't work at all. Of the trainee jobs, which Stefan Löfven in the election campaign promised it would be tens of thousands of, there have been 125 jobs. They raise taxes on jobs and businesses, even though they should be lowered in order for jobs to grow. One closes one's eyes to the division, and Stefan Löfven cannot even say the word. I think it is extremely important to have a government that understands the consequences of division, i.e. exclusion where up to 1 million people will live in passive dependency, and understands that this must be broken, that one needs to have a reform agenda for integration, jobs and entrepreneurship, and that this is serious.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-237	Madam President, I would like The outlying areas grew under the bourgeois government. The gaps grew under the bourgeois government. Poverty grew under the bourgeois government. That's your result, Annie Lööf. Your absolute greatest failure was unemployment. It was higher when you left than when you took office. It's an achievement of yours. We are now reducing unemployment overall. Jobs are growing, and we have more hours worked. That's a good basic condition. That is the prerequisite. Part of this is because we are investing. Now we have a high pace of investment in the construction sector, and we have good private consumption because people feel secure in their economy. They have had better opportunities even when they are sick or unemployed. It contributes to the economy, and it contributes to jobs. Then there are some people who need easier ways into work. Yes. That's why we have 5,000 standby jobs in state-owned companies. You know how small the total labour market is, Annie Lööf, but if we switch this up to the entire labour market, we have considerably more jobs. As far as the fast track is concerned, it's 2,000 already now, Annie Lööf. Rejoice!
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-241	Madam President and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! LSS and personal assistance are one of the most important and finest parts of the Swedish welfare society. For those people who need assistance, it is a question of freedom. It gives them the freedom to live a reasonably reasonable life and do things that are often self-evident to us. Now we see a series of high-profile decisions that mean that people who really need this help do not get it or do not get it to the same extent as before. It has several reasons. One reason is a couple of rulings in guiding cases, and another is that the government has given a mandate in its regulation letter to Försäkringskassan to keep back the costs of personal assistance. If you give such a task to an authority, it is clear that you have to expect the authority to make a more restrictive assessment in the individual cases, and that is what we are seeing now. I think it has become very unfortunate. Above all, it has become unfortunate for those people who really need personal assistance. We have therefore today taken the initiative in the Social Committee to gather a majority in the Riksdag – together with the bourgeois parties, we hope – if possible, to take back the savings that the regulation letter to the Social Insurance Agency in practice entails. We are prepared to do so in order for personal assistance to function as intended, after the intentions of the legislation. Of course, the best thing would be if the government could say that this was not quite what was intended, that it was hitting the individual too hard and that the decision was reconsidered. Is the government prepared to do that, Stefan Löfven?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-245	Madam President, I would like First of all, we need to give a correct description of what is actually happening now. The task the government has given the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is to review the dramatic increase in costs so that it is not so dramatic. The second thing that is happening now is that some precedents have been passed, and we are reviewing that. The responsible minister has said directly to the Social Security Inspection: Look at these consequences. I want a description by the end of the year. Then there is a review of the whole regulatory framework, which is important. Among other things, we have a question that should interest the Left Party, namely that we must see if the money actually goes to those who need the money. This is an important right law, and people should have that right. It is a question of freedom and a deeply ideological question for me. It is just as important for this aid, just as for all other aid, that the money goes to what it is intended for. We have 1 000 companies with 16,000 users. They use a lot of the money for consultants, for legal consultations. Some go to profits and some to marketing, not to the users. Does the Left Party think it is good that the money that should go to the users instead goes to lawyers, consultants, profits and marketing? Or could the Left Party be prepared to review it so that the money to go to the users goes to them and not to any other purpose?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-249	Madam President, I would like I believe that Stefan Löfven is aware of the Left Party's position on private welfare gains. We have debated it many times, and that is something that we are working together to review. And I think that's perfectly reasonable. The money should go to the users who really need it. For example, we should not have rogue companies, as we have had. We absolutely must do something about that. But it must not go out on those who actually need the assistance. What we are seeing now is that it is the people who need assistance who are affected. Yes, to the extent that costs go to things that they are not intended for, it should of course be reviewed. But we are not prepared to restrict the freedom of the individual, as this is about. You have to be able to do two things at the same time. It is good to look at the effect of the judges; it is absolutely necessary. I hope that this will also lead the government to propose better legislation, if necessary. I wish Stefan Löfven had said today: this has gone wrong. We will take back the savings– as it is in practice – to Försäkringskassan.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-253	Madam President, I would like It's wrong and populistic to call it saving bait. It's not a saving bait. It is an instruction for an authority to review the increase in costs, the dramatic increase in costs, not to reduce costs. And this is to be done within the framework of existing legislation. This is a right law, and then the individual should be entitled to assistance compensation also according to these instructions. But we also need to see that the money sometimes goes wrong. The Left Party here, as in many other cases, can do two things at the same time. Of course we're going to do this, but we're still not going to do it, because right now it's time to have a little more populist attitude. I'm sorry about that. This is an important piece of rights legislation that we should stick to. People are entitled to assistance compensation. But it is our duty to ensure that the money is right, and I will stand up for that.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-258	Madam President, I would like Maja is five years old. She's got brain damage, epilepsy. She can't see. She can't move either. She needs assistance 24 hours a day in order to live. A few times a week assistants and parents help to give her the opportunity to ride. Since she cannot move, everyone understands that a lot of help is needed. But it's the moment of the week when Maja feels freedom. Majas's parents are in despair. This is because Försäkringskassan has been ordered to save on the assistance. I assume that the consequences of this are not the intention of the government. Nevertheless, these are the consequences of the decisions taken by the government, as Jonas Sjöstedt has just pointed out. I have no objection to investigating the rules. You have set up two investigations into the rules for assistance, one that will be completed in a few months' time and one that will be completed in 2018. You should then wait for the results of the investigations before giving an order to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency for cuts. However, as Jonas Sjöstedt pointed out, the order for cuts to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency was already given in December last year in the regulation letter. There are assumptions that money goes to other things. I'm sure it's cheating. Cheating is criminal and will of course be prosecuted. Cheating occurs in more or less all grant schemes. The Social Insurance Agency considered that 1.6 per mille was cheating, and that is unacceptable. But your savings are hitting those who need help. Madam President, I would like Maja's not a cheater. She needs assistance.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-263	Madam President, I would like Of course it is. This is a good law, a law of rights, to be enforced. It is a matter of sticking to legislation. That's for the Social Insurance Agency and everyone else to do. Some investigations were also carried out in bourgeois times. They came back in 2012 and already showed clearly that the money – cheating was perhaps a small part – went to lawyers, consultants and marketing and not to the users. The bourgeois government knew that. It was just that they chose not to do anything. We intend to do something about this to ensure that the users, Maja and the others, actually get the help they need. They're supposed to have it, not lawyers, consultants and marketers. It is for the freedom of the users, and I intend to continue to stand up for it. This is a law of rights that we intend to adhere to. We are not going down that road. We're just going to make sure that it's those who should have the support that get the money, not lawyers and consultants.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-268	Madam President, I would like It was the Liberals, or the People's Party, as it was then called, who enforced the law of rights LSS during the bourgeois government in the 1990s. In the paragraphs it is not precisely defined, but it is an interpretation that the Social Insurance Agency does, what justifies assistance and how many hours of assistance you need. It is an assessment that is made. Just because it is a law of rights, it is not obvious that the individual x needs y hours, but it is a trial that is constantly being carried out. When the government goes in and says that Försäkringskassan should cut the number of hours, Försäkringskassan probably does not violate the Rights Act, but it still tightens the support that these individuals receive. That's the consequence this has, Stefan Löfven. I have nothing against investigations to investigate if the money goes to the wrong ends. But wait for the results of the investigations before ordering major cuts, as you have done! My appeal is just like Jonas Sjöstedt's today – we agree on this point: withdraw the order for cuts!
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-273	Madam President, I would like Jan Björklund says he has nothing against investigations. There were investigations in his day, and he knows the answer. The money goes wrong, too. There's a lot of cheating. D is some consultancy fees, profits and marketing. I want the money to go to the users. The government has not given any instructions to reduce the number of hours. On the other hand, we have said that the sharp increase should be halted. There is not a large increase in the number of people receiving assistance compensation, but a large increase in the number of hours. We want the sharp increase to be reviewed. We have never instructed to reduce the number of hours. We'll stick to the truth. That's a good start.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-276	Madam President, I would like The concerns of those who depend on LSS assistance are evident. It is growing, and I think it has grown further after the four chances that Stefan Löfven has had to answer questions from Jonas Sjöstedt and Jan Björklund but floated on the answer. He says it's about reviewing cost developments. You can then browse the regulatory letter that the Government has given to Försäkringskassan with an instruction. The words are not there to look into. It is a matter of the Social Insurance Agency helping to break the trend in the number of hours of assistance compensation. There is quite a difference, Stefan Löfven, at reviewing and breaking development. I am absolutely convinced that the rights laid down by law cannot be sneaked through through changes in the regulation letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. We need an open debate, a popular debate. Investigations are good. But you have crept into a change in the regulations to Försäkringskassan. It does not say the words that you have used so far in this debate, Stefan Löfven, to do a review, but it is about breaking. I think this is extremely serious. Just the fear that someone would risk dying because of the suspension of assistance should cause the Prime Minister to do everything in his power to take action and give another directive to the Social Insurance Agency. Are you prepared to do that, Stefan Löfven?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-280	Madam President, I would like For the third time: it is a question of breaking down the number of hours. The trend is going straight up. There are slightly more people who receive support, but it does not correlate with the number of increased hours. It is a dramatic increase in the number of hours, and we want to break this trend. We think that's right. An old investigation done in your time shows that some of the resources are not used for the users. We already have these facts. Some go to consultants, lawyers, marketing and profits. When we know that, is it not our duty to change it so that the money actually goes to those who need it? It is a law of rights, and we intend to stand up for it. But we're also going to make sure that the money gets where it's going, to the users.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-283	Madam President, I would like That's not true, Stefan Löfven. It's not just about hours, it's about the number of people. In 2015, fewer persons were granted assistance under LSS than in 2014. At the time there were regulations and directives from the government to Försäkringskassan. The idea of breaking development has consequences for those who depend on assistance. It's not true that it's only about hours. It's about people. We need to give these people the legal rights they have. We must not dribble it away by making changes to the regulations to Försäkringskassan before we have seen the results of the investigations. You start at the wrong end, Stefan Löfven. Are you prepared to redo and do the right thing?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-286	Madam President, I would like It is the number of hours that is increasing dramatically, and it is not at all in correlation with the number of people. Then we must reasonably review it. However, this should be done within the framework of existing legislation. No one has changed the law; it looks exactly the same. The Social Insurance Agency should handle it just as they did before, as a law of rights. We have not said that they should make a different assessment so that there will be fewer hours. But we're gonna make sure the money's spent right. They're supposed to go to the users. That's our message.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-290	Madam President, I would like Medical care is completely dependent on sufficient tax revenue being invested so that we have enough staff and enough care places. It is also crucial that care is provided as needed. Care should be given to those who need it best, and no other factors should determine. Acute and life-saving care is, of course, the most crucial. Health care is above all a regional issue but also a government issue. It is absolutely crucial to the whole country. There should be no difference depending on where you live if you receive treatment on time. There is concern among many about the long waiting times in emergency care. There is also a concern about maternity care, if you are going to come to the clinic you expect and get the care you deserve.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-294	Madam President, I would like I thank Hillevi Larsson for an important question. The government has changed its policy from tax cuts and cuts to investments. Much of them go to our welfare, not least to health care. We have made a special effort to increase staffing in health care. We have also made a special investment in cancer care. It needs to be more equal, because here there are far too many differences between different parts of the country in terms of how quickly the treatment starts. We have made major investments in maternity care and mammography. In addition, the county councils receive 3 billion at their disposal, because it is obviously different in different parts of the country. So we have increased the resources for equal care. We are now moving on to increase accessibility, including by providing even more resources to our health centres so that even more people can benefit from the care.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-300	Madam President, Prime Minister Löfven. The Parliament agreed yesterday to approve the Paris climate agreement. We know that climate change is here, that it is serious and that it affects us all both now and in future generations. But they can be slowed down. Through the government's commitment both nationally and internationally, Sweden has been an important player in this work, and Sweden's work is still of great importance. In connection with Sweden's leadership in climate and environmental policy, I ask the Prime Minister: What strategy does the government intend to have for the Marrakesh climate summit this November?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-304	Madam President, I would like It was a big day in Parliament yesterday, and it is a big day today because the government has been able to decide to ratify the Paris Agreement. I am convinced that without the European Union we would not have had a Paris agreement. It was an important start, but this is where the job really starts. It will be a real meeting of the parties in Marrakech because we are parties to an agreement that will take this further. We are engaged in many ways in the climate negotiations, because we need to take the necessary decisions. This means, for example, taking up the debate within the EU on tightening up our own climate ambitions so that we reach further by 2030 than we have already done. This discussion is underway, and it will not least Minister for Climate Change Isabella Lövin be very committed to.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-308	Madam President and Prime Minister. When the government was newly afraid, an ambitious and, in a way, much-needed work was started with a new regional division for Sweden. A division committee was set up to examine the possibilities, conditions and also the implementation of a regional change. This division committee has so far said that no county councils and counties should be forced into a large region against their will. On Tuesday, two days ago, the Landstinget Sörmland refused to join a large region in 2019. Can the Prime Minister guarantee here and now that the promise not to be forced into a large region against his will will be kept?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-311	Madam President, I would like I cannot comment on what an individual county council's discussion will land in. But for practical reasons, it is difficult to force someone into cooperation. However, I think that we should discuss the principle that we need a new division of Sweden if we are to cope with what we just discussed: have good health care throughout the country. There are such shortcomings here that for this reason alone we need to have a better basis. The Committee has come to this conclusion because there has been good support throughout the country. However, it should be taken in a few parts, because it needs to be split up. We need a new regionalisation, and the discussion will continue. It is part of other county councils in the same context as Sörmland, and we do not know how this discussion will continue. But, as I said, for practical reasons, it will probably be difficult to force someone. I can see that coming.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-316	Madam President and the Prime Minister. There are some things to be enjoyed. We share the same view about NATO accession and that we have a very capable Minister for Defence. It is gratifying that we have a clear majority in Parliament in favour of a 'no' to NATO accession. We have a situation with increasing unrest and tensions in the Baltic Sea. The Prime Minister is well aware of this. Chinese and Russian ships have had exercises. Given the increasing threat and the worrying situation in the Baltic Sea, the government's funding is very small. How does the Prime Minister view the modest increase in appropriations?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-320	Madam President, I would like We are making a substantial increase in the appropriations for defence with the agreement that was made. It was decided by the previous government during the last parliamentary term, and now we have taken further action. There is therefore a substantial increase in the appropriations allocated to the response. We need to increase our overall defence capabilities. The defence capacity of the armed forces must be increased. We're adding resources to supplies. We are providing resources for the staffing of the defense, because there it definitely needs to go up. We have just begun the reorientation of the unfortunate decision taken by the previous parliamentary majority between 2006 and 2010, namely to move entirely to professional defence instead of having some form of military service. We are also looking at this. We are thus strengthening our defence capabilities – it is important – at the same time as we broaden our bilateral cooperation. On the whole, this strengthens Sweden's defence capabilities, and I am pleased about that.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-325	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Sustainable development is the focus. As mentioned, yesterday in this House we took the historic decision on the Paris climate agreement. Sustainable development, however, is not only a necessity, both environmentally and socially, but is increasingly seen as a strong competitive force in trade and industry. The state companies, which the Swedish people own jointly, may have a special responsibility to set an example in this area. This is probably business wise and has an impact on the development of green, sustainable technologies, human rights and gender equality. I know that a great deal is being done, and we here in Parliament get an annual account of the work that is being done. Nevertheless, I would like to ask: does the Prime Minister see that there are additional opportunities for the companies owned by the Swedish people to develop sustainable entrepreneurship, and how could it be implemented in practice?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-328	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Sustainability is important, and the state should of course take the lead in this. It is important that state-owned companies are forerunners in both being innovative and innovative and ensuring sustainability. I think that's part of being an attractive employer. All government boards will therefore develop strategic sustainability goals. This could include reducing CO2 emissions, increasing the diversity of employees, reducing the number of accidents at work and developing new sustainable products. There are many good examples where we can say that we have been forerunners. One such is Apoteket, which has been named Sweden's most sustainable company. Another is Samhall, who has received the European Business Award for the most sustainable companies. Good work is taking place, and we shall continue to do so.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-333	Madam President, I would like Recently, we have been able to read many stories about labour immigrants who are to be expelled because of small mistakes, which have often been made by previous employers, and things that have happened several years ago. This is basically a new practice from the Migration Court, which now means that thousands of people will have their cases tried in a completely new way. It is about people who behave themselves, pay taxes and contribute to society, people who just want to live their lives here. Abuse of the system should, of course, be prosecuted and countered, but this is not about abuse. These are small mistakes, and there is no way whatsoever of correcting them afterwards. This affects the worker very hard.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-337	Madam President, I would like Just as Johanna Jönsson said, there is a regulatory framework for this. We have the labour immigration we have with the rules that exist. Those decisions were taken earlier. The Authority has to deal with these rules and also act on them if they are violated. I can't comment on individual cases– they can take responsibility for – but if there's something that doesn't comply with the regulatory framework that exists, the authorities have to reasonably act on it. I think it is important to keep and stand up for the rules. It is the authority that has to deal with them. I have a little difficulty commenting on individual cases.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-340	Madam President, I would like Yesterday and today, the Prime Minister has repeatedly claimed that the Alliance Government reduced taxes rather than giving priority to welfare. This raises several questions. According to the Swedish Tax Agency, tax revenues in Sweden increased overall every year under the alliance government, apart from the year 2009, i.e. as a result of the global financial crisis. The municipal tax in force, i.e. the income that goes directly to the municipalities and county councils, even increased tax revenues each year, without exception. It is the municipalities and county councils that carry out the important activities traditionally described as welfare, i.e. school, health care and care. This means that during the Alliance, tax revenues increased to welfare every year.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-343	Madam President, I would like I mean exactly what I'm saying. The previous government reduced taxes by a total of SEK 140 billion. The active decision was not the right policy, but I thought you were proud of it. It is clear that tax revenue may increase, but one should look at it in relation to the population. If we look at how many people were employed in welfare in relation to the population, we see a sharp decline in the period of the previous government. It's a fact. There is no Santa Claus site that says that we can lower taxes and then have at least as good welfare. This is actually what happened in the welfare – people saw this and no longer dared to trust in the welfare. All the sick women saw this; they had to wear themselves out. Now we're going to have increased staffing in welfare. That is why we have changed direction in politics.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-347	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! In recent months we have been able to see how the Turkish regime has become increasingly authoritarian. Kurdish television channels based in Turkey have been shut down on several occasions. The fight for democracy has been clearly limited and the freedom of expression, the freedom of the press etcetera has been strangled. The last few weeks have also been offensive when it comes to Kurdish channels abroad. Now the satellite company Eutelsat has announced that they are closing a television channel in Sweden, which happened two days ago. I wonder: what does Stefan Löfven intend to do, even if the government is in the lap of the Turkish President because of the refugee agreement? Will the Turkish ambassador be called up to the government to address this issue?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-350	Madam President, I would like When it comes to any television channels and what happens, it gets a little too detailed, but sitting on Erdo中an's knee is completely wrong. I am concerned about developments in Turkey in general, depending on what is happening with human rights, democracy and so on. There is no doubt about it, and we are also expressing this. At the same time, it is important to have contact also with countries whose development we are not entirely satisfied with. If we were only to have contact with those countries where we think it is quite good, we would have a completely different world. It is important that we are also in Turkey. We provide support, not least for civil organisations. The fact that we are in contact with them, I am absolutely convinced, will strengthen Turkey and its democracy. It's a problematic situation, yes. We're going to have contact with Turkey. Turkey is important, and Sweden has long held the view that Turkey should actually enter the EU. That process has a handrail that I am absolutely sure will promote democracy.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-354	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Many probably saw yesterday with horror at Mission review, which showed some from reality in Swedish school, with grade and grade hunting, not between students but in a different way. Sometimes principals, directly or indirectly, may be tube bases to induce teachers to score higher grades. They pointed to the removal of barriers in the systems and highlighted the relative rating system, which disappeared a number of years ago. It was shown that during 25 years the knowledge has decreased but the grades have gone up. In order to prevent the Prime Minister, this has little to do with the free schools. The programme was aimed at both municipal schools and free schools.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-357	Madam President, I would like I have said this before: Sweden has the most extremely market-liberal school system in the world. There is no other country like that. Denmark also has private schools and free schools. There profits are banned, and so is the case in the other Nordic countries. It's not that hard to think about what this could be. How is it that we have both higher grades and lower and falling results? Is there any incentive to give higher grades than you would actually like to do? The answer is money. It is clear that it is part of this drive. We must stop this profit outflow from the Swedish school. That's what we want to do. We will have private alternatives and a comprehensive range of education. People should be able to choose, but we have to stop the outflow of money. Taxpayers' money should go to school; it should not go to profits.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-361	Madam President and the Prime Minister. When you are a member of the Riksdag's Committee on Economic Affairs, company visits are a large and important part of one's parliamentary assignments. I particularly visit companies in my constituency of Västmanland. There is one thing that I almost always get with me from the companies I visit: You have problems finding staff who have the right training for the different types of jobs that you need to be able to hire and to grow. Last time I was in Kingseur. That's where you look for toolmakers. They have searched all over Sweden, and it is not possible to find any of them.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-363	Madam President, I would like I get jealous when I hear that Anna Wallén is on company visits. So do I, but not as often as before. This is exactly what is one of our big questions: How do we get a better match? As I said before, we have 100 000 jobs that are not filled because employers do not find the right skilled workforce. Then education is the answer. For some it is higher education of some kind and for others it is a university of applied sciences, not least. There are also other vocational training options. That is why we are investing in 70 000 training places of all kinds around the country – precisely in order to be able to meet this better. We have also told Arbetsförmedlingen that they must be better at standing next to the companies and seeing what they actually need. Matching needs to be improved, and Arbetsförmedlingen is improving its working methods to be the one to deliver what companies need. That's the other thing we need to do. Resources and contact between Arbetsförmedlingen and the companies – I think that is the key words.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-368	Madam President, I would like Today, too many pupils leave primary and secondary school without sufficient knowledge. That is unacceptable. Now more time is needed for teaching, raising teachers' salaries and zero tolerance against bad schools. Those who do not reach the approved level must be helped to meet the goals. But we must not be content with that. We must also have a school that stimulates and develops the talented and motivated students. This week, I have the privilege of bringing a praoele student from Lomma. His name is Kevin Nyström, and he's up here in the gallery. He has a question he would like to ask the Prime Minister. He has written it himself: What measures does the government intend to take to enable all students to develop on the basis of their knowledge, and in particular how particularly talented students can develop? I think it's a good question, and Kevin and I would be very happy if the Prime Minister would answer it.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-372	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's a very good question. We have reoriented our focus so that we now invest in school. We invest a lot in school. There are three perspectives that guide us. The first is early intervention. Today, students receive the most individual support in grade 9. We say that it should be much earlier – in class F and grade 1 – 3. We also want to reduce the number of children in these classes so that teachers and students have more time together. It's absolutely crucial. It's the magic moment that teachers usually talk about. We'll raise the teacher's wages. We make sure that teachers have more influence. The profession of teachers should apply much more than detailed rules, and we improve their working situation. That's the other thing. The third thing we want to do is to create a more equal school. We need to transfer more resources to the schools that need it. In all of this, we will help both those who need more support and those who are a little ahead. We need to see the individual. Those who are ahead should also have their stimulus.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-377	Madam President and the Prime Minister. It is indeed a privilege to be a member of the Swedish Parliament and ask a question to the Prime Minister. Then, as usual, I would like to take Norberg opportunity to hear the Prime Minister's views on regional development. What does the Prime Minister think is most important to do so that even small rural municipalities can grow and achieve sustainable growth?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-379	Madam President, I would like The whole country should live, and the whole country should be able to develop. That is why we are making a broad commitment to this. Infrastructure is given. Roads and railways must be in place so that both people and goods can be transported. Åsa Eriksson knows that very well. That's the first thing. The second is our regional colleges, which, I believe, play a major role as centres of knowledge and development in cooperation with the business community. That's why they're supposed to be all over the country. The third thing we do is to invest a lot in the development of forests. We can do much more with our forest production. The industry claims that 20 000 to 25 000 jobs may be involved depending on whether we are doing the right thing. We also want to develop the food programme. I believe that food is also something that can be grown and create jobs throughout the country. We have a broad parliamentary inquiry into the whole rural issue, because we want to come forward widely and create opportunities for the whole country to make it – and not just manage but develop.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-385	Madam President and the Prime Minister. There must be a difference between yes and no in the asylum process. This option would undermine trust in the asylum system and create a vulnerability and social scene that we have not yet seen in our country. Nevertheless, we face a huge challenge: breaking the shadow society that is now emerging. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that in the coming years, more than half of all expulsion cases will have to call the police. The forecast shows that in just a few years' time we can have up to 70 000 people living in our country without permission. This corresponds to the size of a medium-sized Swedish city. We Moderates have put forward a number of proposals to break this trend. This involves, among other things, doubling the limitation period of four years that currently exists for when, following a refusal decision, a new application can be submitted. It would be important to send a clear signal to the individual to respect the decisions taken by the authorities.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-389	Madam President, I would like It is important that we have regulated immigration. I'm yes and no is no. We are now seeing an increase in the number of returnees. It's a pretty big increase. We have a rate of about 2,000 people a month, and that indicates an annual rate of 24,000. It's a massive increase, and that's a good thing. But it will certainly need to be done more. That is why the government has taken a decision that when you have received no and it is a final decision, you are no longer entitled to daily allowance. You are no longer entitled to the housing you have had so far. It is one way to show this: Unfortunately, now is the time for you to leave the country, for you have not received a yes. In addition, we have just presented a number of proposals in this area. One is that the police should have more opportunity to do workplace inspections to avoid any kind of shadow society. We should also have more opportunities to look at IDs and passports and also to seize passports if a person is not here legally. We are therefore taking a series of measures, and we have seen an increase in the number of people travelling. We have to hold on to that.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-394	That concludes Question Time for the week. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the participating Members.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-395	Madam President, I would like The Liberals have asked for this debate for two reasons. First of all, the development that we see in our geographical neighbourhood is extremely worrying. We see military armaments on the Russian side – in fact, all over the Russian military apparatus, and for us in the Baltic Sea region in particular. We see an increased aggressiveness in practice patterns also towards Sweden. It is exercise patterns that turn into violations or in any case in an incredible provocative behaviour that borders on violations. Recently, we also reached the news that Russia has now deployed medium-range missiles on the Baltic Sea. In about four minutes they reach most of southern Sweden, and they can be loaded with nuclear weapons. In addition, Russian political capriciousness: the annexation of Crimea and the threatening language against the immediate region. The Baltic States are – to put it plainly – afraid. At the same time as this development takes place, the Swedish Government has commissioned and conducted an investigation into Swedish security policy. The government itself has formulated the directives and appointed its own investigator. The conclusions of the investigator are very clear. The first is that a Swedish NATO membership would mean that the risk of Sweden ending up in conflict would be reduced. The second is that if we got into conflict, our ability to protect ourselves would increase. It is difficult to draw particularly many possible conclusions from this investigation other than that it is time to strengthen the Swedish defence and that it is high time for a Swedish NATO membership.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-403	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Liberals for this opportunity to debate Sweden's security policy. After all, we are living in a troubled time, not least because of the situation in our neighbourhood, in Syria, in Iraq and in Turkey. Our security policy aims to contribute to stability and security in our part of the world. It rests on three legs: the freedom of military alliances, cooperation and its own credible defence capabilities. Now is not the time to change our security policy doctrine. As a military non-aligned country, we build security together with others. We are deepening bilateral and multilateral cooperation with countries and organisations in our neighbourhood. Swedish-Finnish defence and security cooperation has deepened considerably in recent years, as have the dialogue that Sweden and Finland have with NATO on the security of the Baltic Sea region. In addition, Sweden and the United States have recently made a joint declaration of intent on the direction of our defence cooperation in several key areas. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We take joint and several responsibility for our common security. But we need to work together to increase the relaxation in our neighbourhood. Then it is not possible to keep calling for NATO or to see NATO in response to all the questions. The effects of such constant moves on our security policy are rather reversed: a reduction in stability and a reduction in freedom of action. That is why the government has made it clear that there must be no sharp throws in the basic doctrines of security policy. Russia will not dictate our security policy. For the government, it is about contributing to the greatest possible stability in our part of Europe. Sweden's security policy is therefore firmly established. Madam President, I would like Krister Bringéus's report Security today was part of the defense agreement. According to the directives, the report is a review and illumination of our defence policy cooperation and makes a valuable contribution to our continuous work on stability and security in the immediate, European and global areas. The study highlights a number of collaborations: bilateral, regional and multilateral, such as the EU, the OSSE, the UN and our partnership with NATO. Krister Bringéus puts forward a broader approach to security. The report contributes to an in-depth discussion on the broader concept of security that prevails today. This includes, among other things, terrorism and climate threats. It is important, and I welcome the growing interest in our security policy challenges and considerations that the report can inspire. The investigation has not had the task of evaluating the military freedom of alliance. I wonder if he does not twist himself sometimes when he hears how to pick out individual quotes and tries to get them to strengthen their own theories and views. The report author also notes that it is a purely political decision whether Sweden should join NATO or not. This cannot be investigated; it is a political position. The Swedish security policy line is well known and respected, and the government is clear that it is solid. It requires a broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence and security cooperation as well as credible national defence capabilities. It is always possible to get quotes out of context, but it is clear both in the directives and in the introduction to the report that the investigator does not take a stand. It was not his job to make suggestions. Bringéus notes that NATO membership can lead to military re-dispositions in our neighbourhood and that an overall assessment of this issue cannot be made solely in the light of Swedish membership. A joint conflict-responsive capability must also take into account the extensive defence and security cooperation that Sweden has already entered into. It should also be remembered that military deterrence involves the risk of increased tensions and political conflict. This also increases the risk of armed conflict. The report underlines the EU's position as the main foreign and security policy platform for Sweden. Through the EU, we have the opportunity to influence European and global conditions and actively contribute to both military and civilian crisis management. This is also true in the UN. Jan Björklund! You are talking about NATO as if the conflict was already a fact. The government's goal is to prevent conflicts. And the task of the Riksdag must surely be to conduct a policy that prevents conflicts. Finally, I would like to emphasise the breadth of the security policy instruments that Sweden has at its disposal, such as diplomacy, military capabilities, mediation and confidence-building measures. This increases our ability to promote detour and stability in Europe and in our neighbourhood.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-418	Madam President, I would like Is the party more important than the country, Minister? The words are not mine but are the title of a debate article in Aftonbladet a few days ago. The text was written by three experienced diplomats who can be seen in the vicinity of Social Democracy. However, I would like to say these words to my colleagues: Is the party more important than the country, Minister? I quote from the article: 中 The Swedish labour movement's historical merits include the ability to draw up a social contract, identify major future issues, formulate problems and pragmatically adapt policies to a changing reality and leave behind nightstand dogmas. Thus, the Social Democracy has come to be identified with social-building, responsibility, modernity and rationality in a way that has earned respect far beyond our country's borders.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-422	Instead, the leadership of the party has clinged to dogmas, which can no longer be defended with objective arguments. Krister Bringéus' investigation, for example, puts an end to all the essential arguments that are usually put forward against a Swedish membership of NATO. ..................................................... A little over a month ago, the excellent Safety investigation was presented in new times. But what do the Social Democrats think about Bringéus's investigation? From the facts and arguments highlighted: Who do you think can be dismissed on factual grounds? How do the Social Democrats want to continue using Bringéus's investigation in the Swedish debate? There will be no answers. Madam President, I would like To quote Bob Dylan, which has today been awarded the Nobel Prize in ..................................................... The position chosen by the government means that you end up on the same line as V and SD. The four parties of the alliance are on the other side. It is in this force field that the Social Democrats have to act: to remain with the V and SD or to approach M, C, L and KD. It's about dogmas versus factual arguments. I will continue to quote from Mrs Aftonbladet: As with the European Union, the party's retreat must begin at some point, and we deeply regret that this time too, the opportunity has been missed. If the worst scenario were to become a reality, the verdict on Swedish Social Democracy would be harsh. It is risky to put the party well ahead of the country. ..................................................... Is it about the interest of the party or the interest of the nation? The Liberals submitted a request for an up-to-date debate after Mr Bringéus's inquiry came on 9 September. The party wants everyone to present their positions. That's a wise thought. We Moderates see a more restless world. We have a more difficult to judge Russia with movements and behaviours to be taken seriously, with violations, incidents and provocations, and now today data on Iscander robots in Kaliningrad. Sweden should therefore seek membership of NATO. It would increase the threshold for conflict in our neighbourhood and thus increase the opportunity for peace. This would increase Sweden's security, and it would increase security in the Baltic Sea region. It would also provide us with binding security guarantees. Only with membership do we know that others come to our aid. Today we can hope, wish, pray and will. With membership, we can know. Mr Bringéus points out that NATO is an organisation based on deterrence and self-defence, and the measures taken by NATO aim to ensure that a planned attacker understands that preparations to successfully face a threat have been made. This in itself is conflict retention. As a member, Sweden would have access to the joint and several security guarantees in Article 5 of NATO. We could also have common defence planning. It is also important to note that a Swedish NATO membership is not a substitute for a strengthened Swedish national defence capability. Regardless of NATO, we must continue to work to strengthen our own defence. Is it about the interest of the party or the interest of the nation? Madam President, I would like Jimmie Åkesson also participates in the debate. My appeal to him is: Don't be inconspicuous! There are intelligence threats. The Security Service has described this in its latest annual report. The truth is that we can all be exposed to risks and trials. This is not just about private individuals, but also about companies, institutions and authorities – even about the Riksdag and its parties. No one can say that it cannot happen to them, but it is a party's parliamentary office that has been in the media search light for some time. Therefore, the responsibility is so much heavier on that particular party – the Swedish Democrats – and its party leader Jimmie Åkesson has not shouldered that. No, no one is convicted or convicted. But there is reason to react and act also on risk behaviour. 50 years ago, Sweden suffered a severe spy scandal with Colonel Wennerström. At the time, it was a lot about foreign power trying to get valuable and interesting information out of Sweden. Today's maneuvers are not only about getting information but also about providing information, incorrect data and statements to create confusion, uncertainty and a feeling that one can be as true as the other, or that one can be as false as the other. Added to that is disinformation, propaganda and the falsification of history. We have troll factories across the Baltic Sea and Russia Today. These are real and real threats that we are living with and being forced to deal with at this time. Then you have to act clearly and forcefully. Throughout the discussion that has taken place in Sweden in recent weeks, there has been an SD-tail on social media that has tried to minimize, explain away and find strange excuses. Don't do that! Take responsibility, Jimmie Åkesson! Madam President, I would like I recognize this from the 80s, when young left-wing people tried to deny communism's crimes against humanity and explain away red stars and Lenin busts in the bookshelf. Don't do that! Let us see the threats of the new era as they really are!
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-441	Madam President, I would like Speaking of vagueness, I would like to begin my contribution to this security debate by reading out a number of quotes which, in my opinion, quite well reflect developments in Swedish defence and security policy over the last decade. I quote: Since the 1990s, Swedish defence has been forced into such extensive savings that it will be impossible to defend our country against an attack. What makes the ongoing slaughter of defence historically unique is that it is carried out in agreement between the left and the bourgeoisie. No one, especially the Social Democrats, can predict what the security policy situation will be in 15 to 20 years' time, and that is how long it can take to rebuild a disarmed defence. There are already strong reasons to warn against developments in Russia. Vladimir Putin rule is becoming increasingly authoritarian, anti-Western moods are said to increase and the Russian armed forces are carrying out a purposeful rearmament of 30 percent annually. Investments in defence are expensive but necessary insurance, and as little as any other insurance can be taken out once the accident has occurred. This is taken from a debate article written by our current group leader here in Parliament Mattias Karlsson 2005. For over a decade my party has warned against Putin, for the Russian armament and for the danger of Swedish disarmament. The picture given in the article I just quoted has the support of expertise. For example, Professor Stefan Hedlund, Research Director of the Centre for Russian Studies at Uppsala University, said a couple of years ago: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like How, then, did it sound from the other parties? For example, the former spokesperson of the Green Party, Åsa Romson, three years ago in the Focus magazine, said that it is unfortunate that the debate has ended up in a situation where certain defence policies seem to wish for a Russian threat. They think it's a little mummy because it means they finally get to discuss the size of the defense. ..................................................... The representative of the Centre Party in the Defence Committee felt, moreover, three years ago, that it was important to emphasise that Russia was no longer a dictatorship, but that it was more democratic. In the same year Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt chose to wave away the defence's appeals for increased resources by calling the defence a special interest. In response to the criticism that this statement led to, he said: During my seven years as Prime Minister, I have heard no demand from the alliance parties for more money for defence. Even in the Riksdag there are no parties that claim it, more than the Swedish Democrats. That is what has been said in the debate, Madam President. Today we are facing a Russian threat with Russian missiles in Kaliningrad aimed at us. We can see that the other parties, from left to right, were all wrong again, all of them. This is where we're talking about senselessness. We note that they have played Russian roulette with our certainty. How, then, have they dealt with these miscalculations and the irresponsibility they have displayed? Have they apologized? No, they haven't. Have they thanked us as early and persistently warned about what is happening? No, they haven't. The first thing they have done is to try to cover up their own mistakes and move the focus away from them by pretending that they have always been friends with the defence and by constructing conspiratorial theories that are to blame us, the only party that early warned about what is happening, to be putinists and security-politically unreliable. Even the Left Party, which for decades was remote from the Kremlin, jumps on this train. That's remarkable. Only last year it was revealed that the Left Party has donated large sums of Swedish tax money to Putinist Russian separatists in Ukraine. One small detail in this context is that the Aftonbladet journalist who revealed this was Egor Putilov, the same person as the other parties here, without any concrete evidence whatsoever, has accused more or less of being a Russian spy, most recently the Moderates in this pulpit. The second thing they have done, Madam President, is to try to portray themselves as extremely defence-oriented parties that take Sweden's security policy seriously by highlighting NATO as the great salvation. Given that both the NATO director and the two presidential candidates in the United States have recently been very clear about the intention to increase the demands for NATO defence appropriations, I believe that the calculation of the bourgeoisie may well be put to shame in due course. Madam President, I would like I am worried when I listen to the debate on Sweden's security policy situation. I am worried about the steps that are constantly being taken towards a Swedish NATO membership. I look forward to and hope that we will eventually be able to bring about a referendum on the NATO issue.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-454	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State! We live in a time characterised by greater uncertainty than in a long time, increased instability in our neighbourhood and a threat picture that is elevated and very complex. Today, the world is more intertwined than ever – politically, economically and technologically. Russia is currently our greatest military threat. It is not so much a threat in the form of a direct attack on Sweden, as Bringéus states in his report. But Russian action in Ukraine, the illegal occupation of Crimea and provocations in the Baltic Sea region have shifted conflict lines and are challenging the security order in Europe. Russian action in Syria is also highly problematic. We also know that Russian espionage is serious and immediate and that our information channels are overflowing with misinformation, not least Russian ones. The troll factories are conjuring around with the information, so that lies become the truth for some. Moving beyond the immediate regional sphere, we find more people than ever on the run in a world lined with conflicts and climate change. It is a disgrace that the world does not manage to deal with the conflict in Syria. It is a shame that people have to put their lives on the line – if not in the war in Syria so on their way to the European Union, which is incapable of receiving those who seek help from war and persecution, then the countries of the European Union cannot come to an agreement and share. In poverty and misery, in the shadow of wars and in the wake of climate change, many terrorist organisations are also growing strong. Madam President, I would like It is a difficult and complex world we have to deal with, and we must do it together. Cooperation is the key to solutions and stability. But the whole point is, then, that we should work for detour, peace and reconciliation-- not the opposite. It is at this point that the Alliance is calling for NATO. It is not just a simplified approach to safety. It also runs the risk of countering its purpose. Krister Bringéus' report does not allow us to conclude that NATO membership would be desirable whatever the Alliance is trying to suggest, on the contrary. The tension would increase. The rearmament spiral would be a fact. Sweden would help to increase tensions that can so easily escalate. We're gonna break the cycle of violence and go another way. Sweden has managed to have peace for more than 200 years much thanks to this very freedom of alliance. To move away from this and into an alliance in a situation where we may be forced to share tables and security strategy with both Trump and Erdo an, I call irresponsible. I can only ask myself what the Alliance sees the benefits of sharing nuclear umbrella club with these two gentlemen and what it would bring in terms of security. At this point, membership of NATO is not a security policy but a non-security policy. Madam President, I would like Instead, it is the strong conviction of the Green Party that peace and security are secured in a different way. The line of the Green Party and the Government is clear: peace and security are best built through cooperation, confidence building measures and our own defence capabilities. Sweden needs a functioning, adequate defence. There can be no doubt about that. We have also agreed on this in the defence bill. But the greatest threats to our security cannot be solved by military means... at least not alone. Weapons should always be used as cargo resort. Security is about more than military protection. It can only be emphasised enough that foreign policy should be our main line of defence and security policy our peace policy. Diplomacy is our main security policy instrument. The most important thing we can do to ward off threats to peace and stability is to cooperate within the EU, in the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region, in the UN and the OSSE. Today we also have many important and good peace and security cooperation, both regionally and bilaterally. They span a range of areas – from information exchange to exercises and capability development. It is about Nordic cooperation and cooperation with Finland, Denmark, the United Kingdom and the United States. This applies, in particular, to cooperation in the European Union, our most important cooperation arena for foreign and security policy. Membership of the UN Security Council makes us a key player for global security.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-466	Madam President, I would like Sweden's safety rests on several legs. We are building it with democracy, the rule of law, education, a strong economy, a strong civil society and human rights for all. We build it through our ability to defend ourselves effectively against military threats. We build it as a small country on international law and together within the EU and with others. The threats to our security are different and must be met differently. Some are nearby and military, others global like the climate. The threat to our security has changed in the Baltic Sea region, our immediate region, which requires that we jointly increase our capabilities. Neither we nor our Nordic or Baltic neighbours should be destabilised or subjected to military violence. What happens to one of us affects all of us. This is not about neutrality or freedom of alliance. It's about how we build strong alliances to clog the space for Mr Putin's maneuvers. We know that Russia wants to surround itself once again with non-aligned states, with buffer states, because that fits Putin's geopolitical vision. He has taken military action for this in both Ukraine and Georgia. In addition, there are various frozen conflicts. But, Madam President, Sweden should not be a buffer state. I am just from Georgia and have had talks with colleagues in Ukraine. They all have recent experience of how Russia and Putin act. The people of Aleppo also have experience of Putin in the same way as those who survived the bombing campaign in Chechnya. They have not been protected by resolutions of the UN Security Council, the OSSE, the Council of Europe or similar bodies, unfortunately. They have felt that alone they cannot stop Russian action. They have experience of bilateral agreements, talks and promises that have not been sustainable. A small country alone cannot resist an aggressive and repressive Russia which has clearly shown itself ready to use military power, even nuclear weapons, to achieve its goals. Unfortunately, under Putin, the permanent Security Council member Russia has violated international law and by military force annexed Crimea. It actually occupies parts of Georgia and eastern Ukraine. To that end, we all see how to bomb Aleppo down and commit flagrant war crimes. To build security visvi Russia in the Baltic Sea region does not help international law or any of the soft legs on which our security rests. Ultimately, it is about our ability and that of our neighbours to prevent any kind of attack on us. The Center Party was involved in adding increased funds to our Swedish defence and more than the government recommended. Of course, the defence of Sweden in Sweden and then also with our will to make the common defence capability credible through consultation and good planning in the present. Our military capabilities today depend on cooperation with NATO and its members. The government also hopes for their solidarity but fears guarantees. Why? The government concludes bilateral agreements with important NATO countries to talk about Sweden as non-aligned. Why? We promise Swedish military support to our Nordic and Baltic neighbours but without guarantees. Why? Why are the Social Democrats afraid of guarantees from the NATO countries on which we are so dependent? Sweden is not in any military alliance today. But we're not non-aligned. We are members of a political alliance – Europe. Sweden is not neutral if someone attacks an EU country. The whole purpose of the freedom of alliance has thus disappeared. Today, we are building our security together with NATO countries and Finland. That security will be more robust and credible if it leaves no doubt about our will and our common ability to act. Our collaboration with Finland is good but only a complement to NATO cooperation. Finland, for its part, also has an option to join NATO and can think of the idea that the Social Democrats in Sweden cannot. Or can the Social Democrats in Sweden see a NATO option? Madam President, I would like On the basis that Sweden's surrounding world has changed, and the conditions for Swedish security policy as well, we in the Center Party have reconsidered our position and we urge the Social Democrats to do the same. We do not want Sweden to be a security risk in the new environment either for ourselves or for our neighbours and not a buffer state because Russia wants it. We are building peace and preventing conflicts through clarity about our position, and by jointly raising the thresholds we are strengthening our conflict-responsive capacity. We want to start a process of membership of NATO, preferably together with Finland with a view to us both becoming members at the same time, even though we do not veto anyone.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-477	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this opportunity to discuss security policy! Because there are threats, and worse, even manifest events. I am talking about climate impact that threatens human security in the form of forest fires, floods and storms, as well as cyber threats both through our vulnerability and through attacks from outside. Pandemies should not forget, nor terrorism, not only from the outside, but also from the home, which is not just a threat, but what is happening here and now in this country with the burning of intended refugee camps and so on. It's security policy that we're going to discuss today, isn't it? So Jimmie Åkesson came up in the speaker's chair. You're almost baxing. He is probably the last person who still quotes former SD official Putilov as a witness to truth, even as regards those in Aftonbladet exposed the lies about the Left Party. It was a magic. Maybe it was trolls. Very well. There are, of course, other security policy threats: the increased tension in our neighbourhood where ever more loud rhetoric, which we have heard some tests of here in the House too, is accompanying an increased training and armament spiral, also with the nuclear weapons surrounding us. Then the security policy instruments must be sharpened and, in some cases, developed out of the closet. For, of course, military armaments are not the main means of reducing tensions and threats of war. In principle, security policy can contain two elements: direct defence measures against attacks or policies aimed at reducing conflict risks, countering international tension and preventing threats and armed conflicts. I would like to put in a 'and' position there: both military capabilities and the other measures. Unfortunately, however, Sweden has slowly but surely abandoned a traditional and successful security policy that has been based on military alliance freedom, disarmament, peaceful solutions to conflicts and support for the UN. Today, we are part of a Union that the dominant countries are seeking to militarise. Our ever-increasing accumulation with NATO and its structures sows ever-increasing doubts about our freedom of alliance. The Left Party is against this development. We, Madam President, believe that Sweden can take on an important task. As an impartial actor, we can act as mediators in international conflicts. Our military freedom of alliance strengthens our credibility in this work and is almost a prerequisite for this. The starting point for Sweden's defence and security policy is, of course, to safeguard our country's security. It requires military alliance freedom. It also requires an active, independent foreign policy and that we also dare to act against nuclear weapons, even though we may not be allowed to become members of NATO– you know, what some say would never affect our foreign policy. It requires work for human rights and international law, for women's liberation and for global social justice. But it also requires commitment to disarmament, conflict prevention, a strong UN, respect for international law, etc. It also requires – we want to see this – a ban on arms exports to dictatorships, belligerent states and countries that commit gross and widespread violations of human rights, as well as an international ban on nuclear weapons. That work must be given greater priority. We may well discuss this. Diplomats, authorities, organisations, people-to-people contacts and research cooperation – everyone can contribute to security policy work. With a strengthened total defence where the civil defence is being upgraded and support for the defence NGOs strengthened, combined with a credible military defence, we can thus follow Abraham Lincoln's good advice: Stay well with your neighbor, but build a high fence. Bob Dylan has been quoted here today. He has written a lot, a lot of antiwar songs, for example Masters of War :
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-485	Madam President, I would like For most of the 20th century there was a struggle in Europe between freedom and oppression, between democracy and dictatorship, between a liberal social system and a socialist social system. When the Berlin Wall fell, many believed that liberalism was guaranteed as a basic model for Europe. Today we know better: it is threatened from within by extremism and populism, but it is also exposed to threats from outside. The security situation has deteriorated very radically. Russian aggression continues. We are seeing an increase in military armaments around the Baltic Sea. 50 miles from here, in Kaliningrad, is now placed Iscander missiles that can be nuclearly designated. They reach most of southern Sweden. They can take out large parts of our country in a few minutes. At the same time, Russia is moving forward other positions, for example through additional gas pipelines that create an energy dependency on Russia. This is a serious situation. The Swedish defence has been treated rigidly for a few decades. Those who claim that most parties in here are part-owners of this are right, even my own party historically. Disarmament decisions have followed each other. It is quite fast to dismantle, but it takes much longer to build up skills. I am disappointed with the defence agreement that has been reached between five parties in this Parliament: the two government parties and the other three alliance parties. It is completely inadequate in relation to the challenges we face. Now I hear there's a call for new defense arrangements. Then I would like to say: make sure to finance what you have already done! The measures proposed therein are good. They are inadequate, but even they are not funded. It is also incomprehensible that the five parties now intend to reduce the Swedish Air Force from 100 aircraft to 60 with a destruction that starts in a few months' time. In the security policy situation we have, this is an incredible signal. It's a waste of capital – the plan is purchased and modern – but it's also a security policy risk-taking. Madam President, I would like If there is a conflict around the Baltic, it will affect the Baltic Sea, and it is very likely that Sweden will be withdrawn. The crucial question is: Are we better off in that situation, or are we better off if we get help? For us Liberals, the answer is given, and we have strong support in the investigation. Margot Wallström says that the investigation does not take a stand. No, of course it doesn't. It got a ban on taking a stand. But you are blind if you do not see that the list of arguments for is very strong while the list of arguments against is very weak. The investigator notes that if we are in NATO, the risk of our getting involved in a conflict is reduced. And if we're pulled in, our ability to protect us will increase. Then Mrs Wallström's counter-argument is that it provokes the Russians if you join and that we should contribute to detour. Excuse me, but it is not Sweden that is now contributing to increased tension in the Baltic Sea! It is not our position that contributes to this. When there is a NATO debate in Sweden and Finland, the Russians are frightened. They pick up new medium-range robots and put them at the Baltic Sea shore. They rearrange and have an extremely aggressive tone. Of course, the purpose is to scare. And Mrs Wallström says exactly what the Kremlin wants: Sweden should not join NATO. That is precisely the message that Mr Putin wants to hear. When Pernilla Stålhammar and others are going to mention which nuclear weapons they are afraid of, it is not the Russian in Kaliningrad that they mention, but the American ones. This is so typical of the Swedish left. In essence, Swedish NATO resistance is driven by an untimely neutrality nostalgia and by anti-Americanism. These are the fundamental factors behind Swedish NATO resistance. The Swedish intellectual cultural left – almost always more left than intellectual and cultural – loves to hate the United States. That's where the threat comes from. But that is not the world in which the rest of us live. American presence in Europe in the 20th century has been a prerequisite for the survival of free democracies. If we get an aggressive and capricious Russia that is about to emerge again, cooperation between Europe and the United States will once again be at the heart of our own freedom. Madam President, I would like A strong Swedish defence combined with a Swedish NATO membership increases security for those of us who live here. That is our task. We Liberals do not think it will be better if everyone runs their own race in Europe. This is about European cooperation, the European Union. But that also applies to security policy. Madam President, I would like Alone is not strong. Lonely is at last when it comes only to alone. Strong is with others.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-498	Madam President, I would like There are factual reasons to be concerned about developments in security policy worldwide and not least in our neighbourhood. We can see that it has deteriorated only since this month began. We have reports, for example, that the relationship between Russia and the United States is so bad that the Russian ambassador is now talking about a frozen relationship between the countries. It must be seen as meeting the same level as during the Cold War, when the worst relations arose. We can look at our own neighborhood. Russia has moved Iscander robots. They're here to stay. Then the question is, Why in Kaliningrad? Why on the Baltic? Because Russia is planning, if it wants, to use ballistic missiles in our neighbourhood. They can also be used with nuclear weapons as well as conventional warheads. It has been practiced in the days with medium-range missiles from submarines in the Arctic Ocean but also from land. That is a clear mark. I think we all in this House now know that these Iscanderbots reach 500 kilometres across southern Sweden. It is clear that Russia is stepping up rhetoric. Let us also be honest and look at ourselves in the mirror! We do not understand Russia's actions. Who in this House could foresee Russia entering Georgia in 2008? Who in this House, or in the whole world, could foresee entering Ukraine and taking Crimea? We got caught on the bed. The question is: What are the plans to take in the Baltic States? We don't know. And this can change overnight. It is also important to point out one thing. We have an amazing story. That is something for which we should be extremely grateful. We've had 200 years of peace. It's amazing. A country could get war-damaged. It's terrible. But a country can also be harmed by peace when we never think it applies to us. One believes in some way that one is vaccinated against attacks. But that's not the case. In the Baltics, it may have become the toughest friction surface. That is why we need to get this awareness from politics and from the Swedish Armed Forces, bottom-up, that Sweden can be attacked. It is important in this debate to be a little practical, Madam President. It is important to point out that the defence settlement carried out was a trend break. It is the first time since the Cold War that the Swedish Armed Forces receive more money. It was an important step. For example, Gotland is now receiving a military presence. But let us be honest! We're not going to say it's symbolic, but if we're really going to defend the island, we need more troops. We could use a heavy coast robot. We could use some anti-aircraft. It is therefore a step, but it must be followed by more. There is also something that I think the government should consider. Is it that development has caught up with the defense arrangement? Do we need to get together in the defence team and see if there are adjustments that need to be made? For example, do we need to strengthen the possibility of air bases so that we can deploy our aircraft? The JAS planes are amazing, but they are vulnerable when they are on the ground. We should be able to move them out more. We should be able to practice more. This is something that we could discuss by common accord. It is also the case that purchasing power is unfortunately reduced by 5 billion. There's something we need to look at. We're not from NATO. We know that we will be able to survive – the exposed former ÖB – for a few days. Then we believe and hope that NATO will come and help us. But we can't count on it. It is much better to be prepared. My whole life is like that. It is better to be prepared than to hope for the tour. It's just that you have to improvise. NATO can improvise cooperation if we do not take out the insurance. Sweden should take out the insurance before it is too late. Now someone says: Yes, but this is something that only a few agree with. The investigation conducted by Krister Bringéus was an extremely important investigation. It rips apart the arguments that are usually favorite arguments, such as that we would have nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. Look at Norway, says the investigator. It won't be like that. There is often talk of hysterical defense elevations. But it won't be like that. On the contrary, the investigation says that a Swedish membership would be conflict retention. Sometimes it sounds like it would be the other way around. But it's conflict retention. This would increase security for Sweden and our neighbouring countries. The Minister knows what it's like when she's in the Baltics. This is the first thing that comes up. They point to Gotland and our responsibility there, but they also point out that Sweden should become a member of NATO. That would make a difference. Then the question is, how will the government deal with this? Is it supposed to continue to be an American hate? Is it supposed to continue to be a neutrality nostalgia? Or should you see safety in new times?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-508	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! I'd rather be harmed than in the hands of Mikael Oscarsson and his plans for our defense and I don't know everything. I was worried. I only expected to invest in nuclear weapons and Swedish nuclear weapons as well. Then the picture would have been complete. Let me remind you that safety today is a much broader concept. I thought you, Kerstin Lundgren, did it great when you started out by describing exactly all the political, diplomatic and foreign policy tools we have. Then there was a single answer, namely NATO. However, NATO is not an answer to questions relating to climate change, terrorism or pandemics, which today can be just as much a threat to our security. That the fates of others are also ours, we have seen time and again. You are reading a report which also describes the fact that we are not alone. We have just been working on starting cooperation. I thought it was on the verge of rude and directly incorrect to mix the cards and suddenly call Sweden, Kerstin Lundgren, for security risk and buffer state. Which country has been at the forefront from the beginning to ensure that we have a consistent and straightforward policy against Russia? Which country has always stood up and defended the policy of sanctions against Russia and, at the same time, said that we must of course have a straight and clear dialogue with Russia? Which country has started cooperation after cooperation to ensure that we can be as flexible and as secure as possible? It is a matter of seeing that we need the full range of collaborations in order to also be able to take on the broader concept of security. We're not alone at all. It's just the opposite. As never before, we work with different countries and organisations. We are one of the most important contributors to the various UN agencies and humanitarian aid, all of which actually prevents conflict. NATO is an answer when the conflict is a fact, but we must work in a completely different way today if we are to ensure that we can also live safely and feel safe in Sweden. We also make the investment that has been needed for so long in the Swedish defence. It was not so long ago that the Center Party itself changed hands. And you do not want to comment on the fact that we would become dependent on who is President of the United States. You do not want to comment on what is happening to those who currently have more of an autocratic policy than anything else and how it affects this organization. You didn't want to be under a nuclear umbrella until recently either. But you've changed your feet. I believe that what Russia really wants, Jan Björklund, is precisely that we should change the doctrine of security policy, that we should let ourselves be intimidated into taking a completely different stance. But then we should stand firm and say: we are not changing security policies because you are scrambling and have rhetoric that is increasingly aggressive, but we should stand firm. We shall have the full range of collaborations and ensure that we strengthen our own defence and maintain our military alliance freedom.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-514	Mr President, I would like to The starting point for the current debate that we are now conducting and which the Liberals have asked for is Krister Bringéus's investigation. There are many other interesting issues raised by the Foreign Minister, but let us now stick to what was the basis of the request itself. I find it interesting how the Foreign Minister describes Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party: that they have changed feet. It's nothing but a little condescending. It can be described, Mr President, and I think that is more correct, as a party in motion. The Social Democracy and the Foreign Minister should be jealous of that. We see a party that has the ability, the courage and the power to also change perceptions given the situation in which it finds itself. It is not two things, Mr President, that the Baltic Sea region looks different today from 15 to 20 years ago. We can be quite sure that it may look quite different in 10 to 15 years' time, and if it continues in the direction of the key, it will be even worse and worse. There is one issue that I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs should address. If a party such as the Center Party, which for decades has been relatively related to the Social Democracy in relation to the non-aligned attitude, is now in motion, how do you relate to it? If such a party, such a popular movement as the Center Party, can change—how come the Social Democrats can't do that? May I remind you of the article in Aftonbladet with some social democracy-related diplomats: the interest of the party or the interest of the nation? So far, I have not actually heard any counter-arguments against what has been highlighted in Bringéus's investigation. Let me just take one of the many quotes that it is possible to capture in Bringéus's study on benefits: a Swedish NATO application would be welcomed by the Alliance. The Allies' attitude is based on the view of Sweden as a security producer as well as their view that the combined conflict-resisting capacity in the Baltic Sea region would increase with a Swedish membership. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs relate to that paragraph? Again, we also have Article 5, the security guarantee. One can think, one can hope, one can wish and one can pray, but it is only with Article 5, with full NATO membership, that we know other countries would come to our aid. Look also at what happened when the bell of freedom and established self-government rang in Eastern and Central Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall! When the opportunity was offered, one of the first things to do was to apply for NATO membership and then EU membership – Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania! If we ask our friends in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania if they regret seeking NATO membership, I do not think they will answer that question with regret. If, on the other hand, we ask our friends in Ukraine if they regret that they did not complete the move and became members of NATO, I think they will say: Yes, today we regret it bitterly and deeply. I would just like to comment on the fact that Jimmie Åkesson, in her six-minute speech, did not use any time to explain what he himself thinks about NATO membership. He landed in a technical solution during the last seconds of his speech, but there was nothing about how he himself values this with NATO membership. He is also welcome to relate to the passage that I read from Bringéus's investigation. Even more remarkable, Mr President, is that Jimmie Åkesson did not in any way reflect on the intelligence threats facing Sweden. I think it would have been valuable, and I hope that he will use his four minutes in the next speech to just explain something about the intelligence threat to the nation of Sweden.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-523	Mr President, I would like to First, I have some reflections. I do not know if I fully understood what Stig Henriksson meant in his comment. Does the Left Party deny that Swedish tax funds have been channelled to pro-Russian separatists? Or do you think that you are the victim of some kind of Russian misinformation, that it has not really happened but that it is all just a fiction? As far as I understand that story, the Left Party itself has confirmed that this has happened. Then it has been explained out in various ways, and we can discuss that, but there is no doubt that this has happened. I would like an answer to that. Our freedom of alliance is a guarantor of our foreign policy freedom of action around the world. I think that is an argument as strong as something to value and think about, linked to, of course, our own security policy situation but also linked to other conflicts around the world where Sweden has a role that may differ from, for example, the role of the US or some other NATO countries around the world. Sweden has primarily and to a very large extent been a humanitarian force, not a military force, in conflicts around the world. It is clear that NATO accession would most likely be different, and I think that should be taken seriously. However, we want to see a strengthened Swedish defence capability. Quite apart from what Mr Wallmark says, that was actually my starting point in my introductory speech here. We have said this for a very long time, unlike, for example, the Moderates and unlike the other alliance parties which are now calling for NATO accession. This is being done primarily because we have been involved in the slaughter of the defence for 20 years, and now we are not prepared to spend the money we need. You stand here and you talk about strengthening our defence capabilities, but you don't. The only one who can claim it with some kind of honesty is Jan Björklund, but you other alliance parties are not close to financing a strengthened Swedish defence capability. That's it. You are calling for NATO as the savior, and you are free to do so, but on the one hand I mean that there are strong reasons against it, on the other hand there are very strong reasons for us to maintain our freedom of alliance. I concluded my speech by proposing a referendum on NATO membership. I am a little worried about the gradual rapprochement with NATO that has taken place in recent years, most recently with the host country agreement. It is something that passes without any real debate. Those of you who are involved in defence policy here in Parliament are certainly debating it very much, but it is not something that is being debated in the public sphere to any great extent. At the same time, we know that freedom of alliance, our independence, is something deeply rooted in the Swedish people, which is also why there is no strong popular support for a Swedish NATO accession. Nevertheless, political decisions are being taken that keep us ever approaching NATO, and I believe that this must end now. This quiet, gradual approach must be over. Instead, we simply have to ask the Swedish people what they think. It should, of course, be preceded by a debate, as is usually the case in referendums. I also get a little worried when I hear the bourgeoisie and not least Jan Björklund. He said quite early that it was prepared to run over the Social Democracy when it came to NATO accession. Then I wonder: Is the bourgeoisie prepared to take a decision by a simple majority on a Swedish NATO accession? Can we have a clear message about that today?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-531	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I was a little confused when Jan Björklund expressed himself that I would be Russian-friendly and against the USA and that I would be more afraid of American nuclear weapons than of Russian nuclear weapons. I don't think Jan Björklund would listen to what I said. That's not true. No, Jan Björklund, I'm afraid of nuclear weapons! This is where NATO comes in. If Sweden becomes a member of NATO, it is about the fact that, according to NATO's common nuclear doctrine, the greatest security guarantee for the Allies is made up of the Alliance's strategic nuclear weapons forces. This is precisely one of the main reasons why Sweden should not be a member of NATO. I want to see a work in which Sweden continues on the line to reduce the amount of nuclear weapons, to remove nuclear weapons from the world. This is not compatible. On the other hand, Sweden can have these bilateral collaborations with the US as well as other countries and still work hard to remove nuclear weapons from the world. Hans Wallmark pointed out that we should stick to Bringéus's report, so I intend to do so. In fact, it is not a NATO investigation, but it gives a broad picture of what security policy Sweden should conduct. The investigation is going through all the collaborations. When I have listened to this debate, it has felt as if the Alliance is only talking about military threats and aggression. In fact, we need to look at the broad, complex picture. Bringéus notes that the climate issue is the biggest long-term challenge for humanity and Sweden. This does not mean that we should take military risks lightly, but we must keep our perspectives right. That is why I am proud to belong to a government that has presented the largest environmental and climate budget in Swedish history. We are strengthening the climate environment by over 1.5 billion to accelerate the transition to a climate-smart society at local and regional level. We have made Sweden the world's largest donor per capita to the UN's Green Climate Fund. It is to conduct security policy and to provide a secure future for all the inhabitants of the earth. What do we find in the Liberals' budget? Yes, the environmental funds are cut by SEK 6 billion between 2017 and 2019. They remove the Climate Count of SEK 700 million per year, and they say no to, for example, air tax. I believe that this is not a policy of security. It must include the whole spectrum of the broad threat we face. We need more robust energy security with a focus on clean and renewable energy sources, and we need to increase food safety in Sweden. Civil preparedness must also be stepped up. I hope that we can have a broader discussion on security policy in the House of the Swedish Parliament in the future.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-541	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that there should not be a sharp throw in our security policy. But our reorientation is not about a cross caste, Minister of Foreign Affairs. It has been going on since we in Parliament in broad political agreement agreed on a new security policy line in 1992. Then we abandoned the old policy of neutrality. I even heard Stig Henriksson refer earlier in the debate to the fact that security policy has changed slowly but surely. Obviously, we are not talking about a sharp throw. But Swedish security policy must be upgraded and its hard core must work for our new era. The government tends to hide behind the fact that there is broad support for Sweden's security policy line. But in this case, the government is building Sweden's security at a new time on a narrow support in this House, unless you refer to the support of the Swedish Democrats. These are voices that we have recently heard have been easy to connect with Putin-friendly forces and which we know are not to be trusted. As a basis for Swedish security policy, it feels to say the least serious. That, Mr President, should be troubling for the Social Democrats and the Minister for Foreign Affairs as well. Does the Foreign Minister see it as a security policy problem that there is no broad support for her line, if we ignore the Swedish Democrats? If so, what is the conclusion? Krister Bringéus' investigation Safety in New Age is worth reading. I'd love to. Russia is the threat in our region, is aggressive and unpredictable and prepared to use military means to achieve its political objectives. NATO has a defensive and conflict-resisting profile, just like our Swedish defence, which aims to defend and not attack. Unlike Sweden and our bilateral cooperation, NATO is not just talking about solidarity. NATO members are prepared to guarantee it. Why is Sweden not prepared to guarantee solidarity? If the Secretary of State warns of a President Trump in the United States, the Secretary of State should be more concerned about sitting bilaterally in the lap of that President than hanging out together in NATO decrees later. After all, most of them are members of the EU – our friends. There is not just one answer to security policy questions. I thought I was clear about that. The question is whether the Foreign Minister is not lacking an answer, unless the Foreign Minister has a blind spot, namely how to create a credible security policy. Russia has been clear. It does not want Ukraine, Georgia, Finland or Sweden to be members of NATO. Today, only Russia wants Sweden to be a military ally – alongside the government and some other parties in this House. We can note from the investigation that buffer states are destabilising, and Sweden should not be a buffer state. The study points to the Baltic Sea region as a security policy as a whole, where Sweden's choices can weaken or strengthen the overall conflict-responsive capacity. The Center Party has taken a stand. We want to strengthen the conflict-responsive capacity, not weaken it. We hope that the Social Democrats will take the investigation to a wide-ranging conversation and not stop the second investigation for a few years in a drawer.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-551	Mr President, I would like to The European Commission states in a so-called communication that Europe's security situation has deteriorated dramatically. It's a little interesting. Is it a reasonable picture of the reality for the EU country Sweden that the war is at hand, as one might think of some lines? No, fortunately not. The bourgeois parties often point to Ambassador Bringéus's investigation. Not often are the lines that almost do the rhetoric of war and definitely the NATO arguments quoted. Bringéus states that an isolated Russian attack company against Sweden, for its own sake, must be described as de facto excluded. Furthermore, it appears that a Russian military attack on one or more of the Baltic States is fundamentally unlikely. It's forgotten. We could be at war in three years, said in an agitated message earlier. Of course we can be. However, it is clearly out of the question that Sweden will be attacked individually. But, of course, Sweden can be involved in a war, just as could have happened during World War I or World War II, without its own decision. The problem with this, however, is that it points to the reason for joining NATO. All historical experience knows that participation in military alliances increases the risk of being drawn into war. Historic experience, common sense, and, Mr President, for this reasoning, I am sure that not a hundred years of loneliness but possibly two hundred years of experience are speaking. The Swedish Democrats, then – it is interesting to hear what they think about NATO today. The risk is that it will be like the host country agreement: a year ago they said yes to the host country agreement, six months ago they said no to the host country agreement and in the vote they abstained. It can be exciting. Is the Left Party a victim? Yes, we are victims of a SD official's lies in Aftonbladet, now revealed. Read it! A few more things. I find it strange that there is such an enormous one-eyedness. I will not say that it corresponds to the American hatred that everyone is talking about, that there is some kind of Russian hatred. We are critical of the deployment of Iscander missiles, nuclear weapons or not. But we are also critical of the US modernising its 350 billion dollar nuclear arsenal. We are critical of Britain modernising its nuclear submarines for GBP 15 to 20 billion. Kerstin Lundgren is partially one-eyed. She criticises Russia in Aleppo and Chechnya, well-deserved. But what about the invasion of Iraq — the lies of the famous hybrid war — that were based on such lies? 600,000 dead – can we hear criticism of it? Or does Jan Björklund also now want us to have sent JAS planes, as he wanted? If there's the greatest possible silence. It is possible that the support in this House is this or that, but the support of the population for military freedom of alliance is great, and it may also count. Mikael Oscarsson says that things are going well in Norway, because there is a ban on nuclear weapons. No, you have an exception that applies in peacetime. It's not exactly the same thing. Norway, by the way, was under strong pressure when it wanted to push the issue of the Nordic countries as a nuclear-free zone. Then you would suffer reprisals. It shows some things.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-563	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson argues intellectually, even if I land in other conclusions. Stig Henriksson quotes a few conclusions that Bringéus draws in his investigation. Bringéus writes that an isolated attack on Sweden is out of the question. Stig Henriksson makes a big point of it – that we therefore don't have to think much about these questions. But no one has claimed that we should be talking about an isolated attack on Sweden. That's where I agree with Bringéus. That's basically out of the question. It is incredibly difficult to imagine how that threat would develop. On the other hand, we must be completely blind to developments in Russia if we do not understand that there is a threat to the Baltic countries. This is where Sweden is concerned. Should the Russians either go on or threaten to go on the Baltic Sea, the Baltic Sea region will be central because it is the Baltic Sea region, airspace and maritime territory, which is central for NATO to use to protect the Baltic States. That's what the Russians want to prevent. Then the Baltic Sea becomes a central strategic area, and then it happens that Sweden is the largest Baltic Sea power. No other country has as much maritime territory and airspace in the Baltic Sea as Sweden has. This applies not least to Gotland with its airspace and maritime territory. It is on that base that Bringéus and the Swedish Armed Forces and the defence investigation reason. That is why it is happening at the moment – very modest and insufficient yet – reinforcements of the military capacity on Gotland for the Swedish part. That a war is unlikely, how do you argue about it? Do you need a defense at all? I would say that it is extremely unlikely that my villa, the one my wife and I own, will burn down. Despite that, we pay fire insurance every year. It is highly unlikely – we will probably note on the day we sell the house that the money for the insurance was money in the lake because the house has not burned. Nevertheless, we are paying because, if the worst happens, the consequences are so serious that we still want to protect ourselves. That is what defence and security policy is all about. Then Henriksson draws a strange conclusion. He says it is historically proven that participation in military alliances increases the risk of war. On what basis does Henriksson claim that? Has Norway been involved in war more than Sweden since joining NATO? There is no evidence whatsoever of this. When the Swedish red-greens say that neutrality has served us well, do you know what Norwegian Social Democrats and left-wing parties say? They say that NATO membership has served them well. That's what they say. It's the other way around. Ask the Balts! Do you think that the Baltics have joined NATO because they want to increase the risk of being attacked? It is, of course, exactly the opposite. They have agreed because they feel that it creates increased security. Why do you think the Ukrainian Parliament is now submitting an application for membership of NATO? They've done it now that the Russians are on their territory. Now, of course, Ukraine will not be allowed to become a member. It's too late to take out fire insurance when the house is on fire. The Foreign Minister says that NATO is not the answer to climate problems and pandemics. No, I know. Security is wider. But that's the way it is. It is not JAS aircraft that protects us from the climate effect, but it is also not green tax exchange that protects us against Putin. These are completely different problems, and they must be met with completely different measures. Two throws? Kerstin Lundgren said: We have been thinking about these issues in Sweden since the fall of the Berlin Wall. We joined the Partnership for Peace in the mid-1990s. We've been investigating it over and over. In 1949 the first discussion on Sweden was to join NATO. It's not a rough throw, Secretary of State. You can say yes or no, but you can't say we're too hasty.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-572	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State did not like that I described the reality as it is. I picked up the launch of medium-range missiles from the Barents Sea. I mentioned the deployment of Iscander robots in the Baltic Sea region. It can also be mentioned that it has been noted from the American side that Russia is trying to manipulate the presidential elections in the United States. Relations from both Russian and American sides are described as the worst since the Cold War. We have to take this in. What Mr Bringéus's investigation clearly says is that there would be a conflict in the Baltic Sea region, that is, in our immediate region, we would be involved whether we want to or not. That's why it's much better to prepare with your friends than to improvise. None of us want war, of course not. A defense is there to have a threshold, to create security. The best way to increase deterrence is for a Swedish NATO membership together with strengthening our own defence capabilities. There are other things that are also important. What I think is important in the debate is that we are also practical. I read from a Gotland newspaper.It has previously been known that the military re-establishment on Gotland has been made more difficult because half of the shooting field and half of the shooting field – Tofta has a limited permit and the other part has no complete permit. But now Jas Gripen can also be stopped from landing at Visby airport. In a re-examination of the permit to fly to Swedavia, a new condition has been added – noise insulation is required. It is quite unreasonable for us to make it difficult for the Gotland group that we are now going to have, i.e. the Home Guard and qualified military personnel. The lack of information from the government makes it difficult. This is on the government's table and is something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government could see to it that something was done about it at once. This also applies to Hanöbukten, the training area in Blekinge where it is planned to build the world's largest wind turbines. It would destroy the practice area, and I think everyone here knows that practice is important. Without practice, we will have no effect, so we will have to monitor the Swedish training areas. This is a homework. It is an expression often used by the Secretary of Defense. It's a homework assignment I'm sending with the Secretary of State. This is something the government can decide on. There are a wide range of matters on your table on which you can decide. One more thing: Nord Stream 2. Here it's some kind of double bookkeeping. In the current state of security policy, we should act to prevent this. The Foreign Minister has said in a debate a few months ago that we certainly have the same line as the Baltics and the negative countries. But it turns out that the government did not sign the letter to the Commission, and that is going to be a little strange. The government keeps saying that it hopes that the EU will somehow fix this. But we are in the European Union, and then we will have an influence. My specific question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who comes after me on the list of speakers, is: there is a special ambassador in charge of this matter now, so what does Sweden do to prevent the gas pipeline? We could deliver an answer at once by, for example, stopping the lending of Slite port. That would be a concrete thing.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-584	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! This is increasingly developing into a debate on defence policy, and NATO can certainly be a response for some. But there seems to be great opposition to holding a security policy debate with the broader concept of security. I can't do that! Those who have now called me to a debate on security policy have been ruling Sweden for eight years. The then Prime Minister chose to call the Swedish Armed Forces' security analyses special interest. Our government makes other priorities, and since 2014, the Riksdag has decided by a large majority to strengthen the Swedish defence. Then Björklund thinks that it is not enough, and you might think so. You can have different opinions about how big it should be. The government works in line with the defence policy proposal, which five parliamentary parties agreed on last year and which means that we strengthen the Swedish defence and develop our collaborations. No one here has talked about cooperation. There is an answer to all the questions, and that is NATO, unfortunately. Defence capabilities are strengthened, training activities are developed and the ability of the units is increased. The appropriations will be increased by 10 billion by 2020 and 17 billion in total with previously decided increases. It is clear that this agreement is very important. I do not have time to say everything, but building security together with others is and has long been a cornerstone of Swedish security policy. I believe that we want to stand by our security policy doctrine, that we should build cooperation and that we should have a, not historyless, but historically effective policy also in terms of our military alliance freedom. Finally, it is a question of deterrence or relaxation, and I am in favour of de-stress.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-589	Mr President, I would like to I am not getting any answers from the Foreign Minister, and I do not think I am getting it from any other Social Democrats in this House either. So let me turn directly to the wise Social Democrats who are not in this Chamber but out in society with a fundamental question: Is it in the interests of the party or the nation to act? If you know that you can help raise the threshold for conflict in our neighbourhood, reduce the risk of conflict and thereby help secure peace and increase security for Sweden and the Baltic Sea region – what is the obstacle to taking that step? With NATO membership, you also know that you can get help if something happens; you don't have to hope, believe, wish or pray. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that we should do things together with others, and Bringéus's investigation also lists a variety of organisations: the EU, the OSSE, the UN. All of this is excellent, but the blind spot of the Social Democrats is that they say 'no' to NATO. You would like to see cooperation with others, but you exclude an organisation and cooperation that so many other democracies have joined – in the interests of the party or the nation? It is also said that we should not risk increasing tensions, but where have you been in recent years? We have seen deployments of Iskander in recent days, provocations, incidents, troop movements and disinformation. Yes, I believe that peace is built through cooperation: the EU, the OSSE, the UN, NATO. In addition, I turn to Stig Henriksson, who says that one is about as bad as the other. That's exactly what Putin and Russia want. It's not as bad; it's not the same. America and Russia don't do the same thing. There is a difference between a democracy and an authoritarian country.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-594	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I think that listening to this debate gives us something very positive: the vagueness we were talking about at the beginning seems to be rather blown away, with a few exceptions on the far left. That's good and positive. Then it is clear that we can stand here and hit each other in the head with various loose quotes from the investigation. And let us be honest: it supports both sides. There is no doubt about it at all. Perhaps I think that the most important conclusion drawn in the investigation is that of the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the beginning: NATO membership for Sweden is a political issue; it cannot be investigated. It is therefore political opinions and values that should form the basis for this, and not what an individual investigator will come up with in a one-man investigation. For the Swedish Democrats, we are not prepared to give any decisive influence over Swedish defence and security policy to either Erdo中an, Clinton or Trump. I think that is an important starting point. Instead, we propose a substantial strengthening of national defence capabilities and a further deepening of cooperation with Finland in a defence alliance. At the same time, Mr President, we do not want to see any further silent approach to NATO, but rather to be preceded by a proper, transparent debate and, as I have mentioned on a number of occasions earlier today, preferably by a referendum. If Sweden is to join NATO, it must definitely be preceded by a referendum. Therefore, I use the last few seconds to repeat my question to the bourgeoisie and in particular Jan Björklund : Are you prepared to vote Sweden into NATO with a simple parliamentary majority, or is a broader agreement or a referendum required?
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-598	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State! Two throws – yes, I think it would be a rough throw if Sweden joined NATO. Being part of NATO is a huge difference in relation to the host country agreement that we signed or the Partnership for Peace. Among other things, we could theoretically be forced to have nuclear weapons on Swedish soil. We would find it difficult to work with nuclear disarmament internationally in the way we want, and we would end up under Article 5. It is a sharp throw and a huge difference in relation to where we stand today. I feel that, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, we are slipping into a track where we are talking about defence policy and not security policy. That's a real shame. I am thinking of Agenda 2030, on which the entire international community actually managed to agree. We would work together, and we would look at developments in the world from a broader perspective. We must be able to do this here in Sweden, too, in terms of security policy. Promoting peace and security is multi-layered. But the core is ultimately to work preventively and prevent conflicts before they have arisen, and this applies both internationally and in Sweden. I would therefore like to underline what Minister Wallström said earlier: rather than discouragement, and no thanks to NATO membership.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-601	Mr President, I would like to For Sweden's security policy to be credible, we must also have a credible and hard core in that policy. We want to be solidarity. We are not just talking about it; we think we should be able to guarantee solidarity with our Nordic neighbours and with our Baltic neighbours. We think it is important that we ensure that our Baltic Sea region becomes a region that does not invite conflict and does not invite Putin to manoeuvre and destabilise, but actually clears out that there should be no trouble here. Mr President, I would like to Imagine the idea that we would have had this debate if our Baltic neighbours had not been members of NATO. How, then, had we viewed their situation? I think that many in this House could then think that it might be close at hand that they experienced the same thing that our friends in Georgia or Ukraine have experienced. Right now, the conflict-resisting effort, as NATO is doing, is what keeps Russia's fingers away from the Baltic neighbours. The time has come to make our declared solidarity credible by both giving and receiving guarantees to re-establish a broad political consensus that builds peace and freedom in our part of the world. I hope we can make that journey together. When you hear the Putin-friendly forces of the Swedish Democrats, I think that the Social Democrats should consider whether we should have a security policy that rests on the shoulders of the Swedish Democrats.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-607	Mr President, I would like to It's a shame you don't have a lot of minutes to face everything you've heard, isn't it? We would have a debate on security policy. At least it says so. As usual, however, the debate has essentially been reduced to a defence debate. In turn, it has been reduced to military defence. And, of course, it's all about Russia. I share the criticism of Putin Russia, whose policy is far too similar to that of perhaps future NATO brother Erdo中an. It is an increasingly authoritarian government and persecution against political dissidents as well as against free media and so on. But is Russia thereby a threat to Sweden? At least now we have heard that no one is counting on an isolated Russian attack on Sweden, and it is good that we have sorted it out. Then the issue is military alliances. I say that historical experience, common sense and 200 years of experience indicate that it is quite fortunate to stand outside military alliances. Then you have to distinguish between intention and results, Jan Björklund. The intention of entering a military alliance is one thing, the result may be another. There is much to be said about this, but I will not prolong the debate much more. Sweden should have a good defence. But it is security policy in a much broader sense that can create the mutual security that is necessary for the training and armament spiral in our neighbourhood to be broken. We should also discuss this.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-614	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank both the President and the other parliamentary parties for having listened to the wishes of the Liberals to have this debate, which would be about NATO in particular. That was the wish itself, and the debate has been about it. The government's announcements are still strange. An investigation is very clear in its conclusions, and the government sticks its head in the sand. This is hard. There is a lot of neutrality nostalgia, Palmenostalgia and everything that can be in the walls of Sveavägen 68. That is what governs this; it is not Bringéus's investigation. The investigation is being waved away. It is said that it has come to no conclusion, but it was not to come to any conclusion. But it is quite obvious where it lands. Therefore, the government's arguments do not hold true. I think Jimmie Åkesson is the strongest defender of the government line in here. He has a much stronger argument than the government itself. However, Mrs Wallström may well reflect on why this is the case. Why does a party like the Swedish Democrats, who themselves and together with the other European extreme right have a huge fascination for Putin and Russia, come to the same conclusion as Margot Wallström? Mrs Wallström then says: you are only talking about NATO. You are not talking about cooperation. Excuse me, but what is NATO? After all, it is cooperation between the world's most stable democracies – Turkey the exception. But the other 30 countries are the world's most stable democracies. It's a collaboration. The Secretary-General is the former Socialist leader in Norway. It is a cooperation that is about our children and our grandchildren also being allowed to live in freedom and democracy. That is what this cooperation ultimately involves. That is why NATO is founded, that is why NATO exists, and that is why the American presence is important in the 21st century as well as in the 20th century.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-620	Mr President, I would like to This is a debate that has been about the security policy situation, and there is cause for concern. Our army chief, Anders Brännström, said at the beginning of the year that Sweden can be at war in a few years. That is something that we hope will not happen, but we must have a completely different level of preparedness. Sweden may be attacked. So what are we gonna do? The defence agreement was an important trend break, but it must be followed by more steps so that we can strengthen our defence capabilities in different ways. But that said, it is not enough. No matter how much we invest, it won't be enough. We're not gonna make it on our own. We depend on our neighbors. It's written in Bringéus' investigation that if there's a conflict in our neighborhood, we'll be pulled in. Then it is far better to prepare with your friends, because it is our friends who are in NATO. Of course, Finnish cooperation is great. But the military muscles needed to be conflict-retardant do not exist. And conflict retention was a key expression in this investigation. Then it is rather sad to note that there is an alliance here – a pact – between the government, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats who crampedly cling to the freedom of alliance, despite the fact that the favorite arguments have crumbled. Now there are only American hatred, neutrality nostalgia and, I believe, problems in their own party remain in dealing with these issues. That is regrettable. We must see that this is about safety in a new era. There are also questions about leadership when it comes to Nord Stream. Why aren't you in? It seems that there is a way of talking about this internally in the country. There is also a need for foreign action. We need to do what we can to stop Nord Stream 2.
i-b3e8e61112a3dd81-627	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the Liberals and Jan Björklund for having this debate on security policy. Thank you also for the intellectual level, which has strained from Gabriel García Márquez to Bob Dylan and I don't know what. Thanks also for the nice tone, which I think has been good. A Swedish NATO membership is not the answer to all the security challenges we are facing today, we have noted. The most important thing is to ensure that conflicts are prevented, and that must be the smart core of a security policy. I would like to emphasise the breadth of the security policy instruments that Sweden has at its disposal, such as diplomacy and – of course – military capabilities, as well as mediation and confidence-building measures. It increases our ability to promote detour and stability in Europe and our neighbourhood. I think we share the analysis of the concerns, the dangers and all that. But the question is how do we avoid getting into a conflict situation, Mikael Oscarsson. How do we avoid getting there? Should we wait until we are there, and then call for NATO? We must ensure that we prevent conflicts. Our active work to safeguard the European security regime and uphold respect for international law should be seen in this perspective, and the main advantage of military alliance freedom is that it has given and gives Sweden freedom of action. We have freedom of action to build diplomatic and military cooperation. For generations we have lived in peace. I believe that the burden of proof lies with those who want to change that tradition of peace and what would come in its place. I think it is important that military alliance freedom has broad support among the Swedish people, and that is what we can lean on. It is you who want to change our security policy doctrine that has the burden of proof now. I hope, of course, that we will continue to have a good and respectful debate.
