i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-3	Mr President, I would like to Housing policy is influenced by a large number of factors and concerns a large number of areas, fiscal policy, social policy and many others. This has also been evident in the debates we have had in recent weeks. There are also many more laws involved than the Planning and Construction Act, which is the one we usually talk about. Planning and construction sometimes affect the environmental code even more. Many municipalities now face a difficult situation when they find accommodation for both newcomers and many other applicants in a short time. Many municipalities are clear that laws and regulations need to be simplified if municipalities are to resolve the housing issue in the long term. The single biggest stumbling block mentioned by many is national interests that limit the availability of land for natural values, outdoor life and culture to be protected. The areas that can be quickly built up often have four or five protected areas on each other. In addition, municipalities also mention noise levels as an aggravating factor for construction. I am increasingly convinced that we must make construction a national interest. In the interim report, the investigation set up by the Alliance could have proposed construction as a national interest. I was disillusioned when I saw that the sub-report had not done so. I was also quite disheartened, to be honest, when the final report came. They say that they would like to have more national interests and not fewer. The purpose of the investigation directive was that the investigation would examine the issue of housing construction and would categorize interests. Instead, the inquiry suggests that it should be up to municipalities to categorize interests. It can take into account housing construction as one of those categories. Municipalities don't usually say they want less power. The fact that SKL is negative to the investigation proposal that is now before me is quite telling and shows that the investigation has not solved the problems with national interests. I hope you will take a look at this. We'll see if the investigation even goes out for a referral or not. It's up to others to decide. In addition, I would like to mention the KD exercise 2014/ 15:1666 from my colleague Penilla Gunther, who highlights the right of small entrepreneurs to continue operating and maintaining small-scale hydroelectric power plants. They must be protected within the framework of reasonable requirements for environmental improvement measures. It is problematic that the county administrative boards, with one hand, provide support to rural operators and, with the other hand, require measures to improve the environment, which are likely to lead to the closure of existing hydroelectric plants. That is why I am very much in favour of Parliament now making a clear announcement to the government. It is a prerequisite that licensing processes are flexible and can be adapted so that those operating small-scale hydroelectric power plants do not incur unreasonable costs in new licensing trials. Account must be taken of the fact that those operating large-scale and small-scale hydroelectric power plants have completely different economic conditions. With this, I would like to endorse reservation 1.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-11	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CIVIL Committee's report, CU13. For time winning, I choose not to agree to our reservation no. 5. V i is not really so divided in committee. Today we are going to discuss the motions concerning national interests and the need for housing, the protection of farmland, the protection of water areas, the process of identifying national interests and so on. I will not touch on all these issues, but will focus on the issue of national interest and water activities. As far as national interests are concerned, the National Interest Investigation Report presented its final report in December 2015. The report contains, among other things, proposals for the inclusion of housing provision as an essential public interest in Chapter 3. the environmental code. The report also proposes that the government or the authority that the government decides should be given the opportunity to decide on the primacy of such a substantial interest before a national interest. It is a proposal from the Commission to increase the supply of housing. It may be interesting to look further at such a proposal. Then you can sometimes wish for more. But the bourgeois opposition writes in its reservation that the proposal of the National Affairs Investigation does not solve the problem that national interests hinder housing construction. Let us remind ourselves that the investigation – as Mrs Szyber mentioned in the speaker's chair – was set up by the previous bourgeois government. The question then arises as to whether the former Swedish democratic housing minister was unclear in his directives because he is so dissatisfied with his own investigation. They may have happened once. But it was the same when we debated the investigation A shorter chain of agencies for detailed plans and sectoral regulations. There was also an investigation appointed by the former Minister of Housing. The PBL appeal investigation had dismissed a number of proposals from the bourgeoisie such as investigating the conditions for limiting appeals, investigating time limits for appeals and more. In that debate, there was a call for further questions to be re-examined. One might wonder whether the opposition is living by the motto that if the map does not correspond to geography, the map is concerned. If they don't get the answers they want from an investigation, they want to set up a new one. One might wonder how many investigations are required for the bourgeoisie to realize that reality does not correspond with their map. The report of the Swedish National Affairs Investigation is now being prepared in the Government Office. We assume that the government gives this issue a high priority in the ongoing preparatory work. It is housing that is needed and not more investigations into things that have already been investigated. Mr President, I would like to The committee proposes a declaration to the government that a regulatory framework on permit processes for water activities should be flexible and adapted to small-scale activities. We believe – as we write in our reservation, which I do not support – that it is urgent that all water activities subject to authorisation be authorised in accordance with the environmental requirements laid down in the environmental code. We also believe that licensing processes should be effective and legally secure and not lead to unnecessary administration that prevents water operators from spending resources on environmental improvement measures. The report of the Water Activity Investigation is prepared in the Government Office, and the Government has announced that it intends to submit the bill to Parliament this autumn. Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson has stated in response to a written question in the Riksdag that the Government has noted in the preparation work that the conditions for small-scale hydropower should be considered in particular, e.g. as regards the protection of cultural environmental interests. I will readily admit that this has not been my strongest question politically. I have therefore endeavoured to meet people who are hydropower owners. I made a visit to Sörmland this week to see how they are affected and what concerns there are. I g can understand the concern that many small power plant owners feel. In particular, I would like to thank the power plant owner I met for the informative visit I had to make earlier this week. I really appreciate being able to discuss questions with people who are affected in reality. I have taken on board a great deal of the comments. Furthermore, it is important to see the consequences of hydropower and dams on our watercourses, what they do for ecosystems and biodiversity. However, today we are not going to make any decisive decisions for water activities, but, as has been said, the government will come up with a bill in the autumn. It is our hope that it is well balanced.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-22	Mr President, I would like to Having listened to Leif Nysmed, I felt I wanted to ask for a reply, because I think we need to relate to a business and to a reality. When I read the directives, I thought they were clear. It says that housing construction should have a more central role. But it also becomes clear when I read the investigation that you can interpret them in different ways. As I said in my speech – and I stand by this – I do not think that the investigation has delivered exactly what I had hoped. I also know that many people who have looked at and supported the directives have the same thoughts. My question to Leif Nysmed is: Do you think the proposal is so good that you should send it out for a referral? And do you think that the proposal would provide the municipalities with the tools they say they need to bring about more buildable land and cope with the challenging and difficult situation they are facing? Today, most of the country's municipalities have a housing shortage, and they themselves say that it is incredibly difficult to produce buildable land both in the short term, for temporary solutions, and in the long term. They clearly underline that the most aggravating circumstance today is precisely national interests. They themselves think that it is a problem that decisions should be at municipal level. They don't think they should do that, which also SKL is clear with without us having a consultation round. There are still sufficient assessments at the municipal level.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-27	Mr President, I would like to Caroline! I haven't read the entire investigation, but I've read parts of it. It's quite interesting. Of course, you can always want more of it. I cannot answer whether or not to refer it, because I am not a government representative. We have to look at this with riksintres later. The investigation highlights that 55% of the land is affected by national interests, which I write in my own reservation. This does not mean that we must not build on this 55% of the land. On the other hand, it is an interpretation that has put a wet blanket over it. Rather, it is a matter of clarification – that a clearer position should be taken. I can refer you to a page of the investigation. Right now I don't remember which one, but I can get back to it. It must be made clear that different positions should be made as to whether the activities to be built in a national interest area should be located there or whether you can have a different location. Furthermore, it is still 45 per cent of Sweden's land that is not covered by any national interest. This corresponds to about a surface five times Holland, which has 16 1⁄2 million people. It is therefore quite large areas that are not covered by national interests in Sweden. It will be easy to believe that it is impossible to build anywhere in this country. You might have to try to relate a little bit to reality and look at what it looks like. You may have thought you were clear about this, but obviously you did not get the deliveries you wanted. If so, what should we do with national interest? Should we investigate it one more time? That's my question to you, Caroline.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-32	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by informing Leif Nysmed that the 45% must not be forgotten about the protection of the beach. It is not that it is 45 per cent of Sweden's land that is buildable. Both top politicians and municipal politicians say: When we travel by train or plane over Sweden we see that it is a lot of green ground! But it is not so much of this land that can be built. One can take Kiruna as an example, where everyone agrees that we should move a city and that we need to do so. If one had not been able to make so many deviations from current principles and have seen how national interests make it more difficult, then this move could not have been made possible. So you can say that we have problems with land! It is not 45 percent of the country's land that is buildable; that is something you should be clear about. I am not saying that a new investigation needs to be carried out, but I think it should be borne in mind that this investigation was carried out at a time, and a lot has happened afterwards. One way could be to send it out for a referral and listen to the referral bodies, and one way could be that you yourself within the Government Office prepare it and try to find solutions. I was quite clear earlier this week on Twitter, when I was reading for today's debate, that when you were in a government position, you thought that the Government Office was preparing something positive: We are working, and we are trying to find solutions. On the contrary, the common man, and those of us who get a little perspective in opposition, sometimes just feel that things are drawn in the long way. It is not quite the same positive spirit in it. I hope that you are now using the time and the expression, and the Government Office is preparing to really try to find a good solution. As an opposition politician, I want that, and I think many of the voters want it as well. Use the concept and prepares the right way!
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-37	Mr President, I would like to Caroline! The percentages that we throw ourselves back and forth with – 55% national interest and 45% non-national interest – do not mean that you can build on 45% and not build on 55%. You can also build within the 55 per cent of national interest. However, the whole issue needs to be taken into account. We should not say that we cannot build in certain parts, but we must be a bit serious in the discussion. As far as preparation is concerned, I am sure that the government and we in the Parliament representing the government parties have an ambition to come up with many homes. I think that this matter of essential public interest could be one of those issues that could be looked at in greater depth. It is not just the housing issue that can be raised as essential public interest, but there are other motions here that we may be debating. It is a question of farm-worthy agricultural land and so on, which can also be raised as an essential public interest. You can look at this and see if it can be interesting to skit how it can be handled.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-39	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with what Caroline Szyber has said about the problem of national interests and also calling for the joint alliance reservation in this area to be approved. I would then like to turn to the part of the report relating to water activities. I'll start by taking a different perspective as my starting point. In Sweden's seventh largest lake, Siljansöringen lives. It's a trout tribe that's just there and nowhere else on this planet. In order to reproduce, it needs access to flowing water. It plays and reproduces in the rivers around and in the bee flows to Siljan. 65 years ago, before the major power plant expansion began, approximately 16 000 Siljan trout began their hike each year towards their playgrounds in the rivers north of Dalarna. In the 50s and 60s, hydroelectric power plants came and formed a compact wall for the fish. They could no longer reach their playgrounds. The power plants were built at a time when environmental thinking and ecological sustainability did not exist. They were built at the same time as the Swedish authorities urged our people to throw their garbage into the sea. We have stopped throwing our garbage into the sea because we know better today. But the hydroelectric plants looked exactly the same then as they do today. Of the 16 000 Siljan trout that started their hike then to reach their playgrounds, 60 returned last year. They will continue to try to return to their playgrounds until the last Siljan trout is dead. When the last Siljan trout is dead, it is an irreversible interference in biodiversity. For this we have a responsibility. 20 years ago, the hydroelectric power companies around Siljan were condemned to secure and secure the regrowth of Siljan trout. They were sentenced to meet catch quotas to be met each year. Not in one of these 20 years have they complied with their commitments in that part. In other parts of the world, Mr President, where there has been a better balance between protecting the reproduction of fish and the need for green and environmentally friendly hydropower, the sport fishing industry is a billion-dollar industry that generates a lot of jobs in the tourism industry. In Sweden, this industry is practically non-existent, simply because we have knocked out the stock of fish that could have survived if they had built fish migration routes and taken the height for this. It is not impossible, but it can be done, and it is done in many places around the world but not in Sweden. There is one problem, and that is that the application of law in this part is volatile. The state does not assume its responsibilities for the simple reason that the state is the supervisory authority and through the county administrative boards is responsible for ensuring compliance with the water judgments that notify the power plants to ensure the fish's right to fish migration routes and the right to reproduction. And you don't make sure that these water judgments are complied with. At the same time as you let the great watery ftts live the law and let them continue with their activities without taking the measures they have been ordered to take in court, you are pursuing a hot hunt against small water power practitioners. Small hydroelectric plants can certainly also be harmful to biodiversity depending on the water in which they are located. We must of course have environmental permits that ensure that both interests can exist in parallel, i.e. both the possibility of biological diversity and the possibility of producing environmentally friendly electricity. The problem is that legal applications have become arbitrary. Different county boards apply different rules. The county administrative boards are forcing operators to apply for a new permit. The process around applications for permits is often so costly that individuals with agricultural properties are forced into bankruptcy. It has achieved nothing but to put away the bones of private individuals. There has not been a better situation in terms of biodiversity, nor in terms of migratory fish, nor in terms of electricity production. We need to have a system of clear regulations where there is no difference between different county boards how one chooses to apply the law. We must have a system in which the individual operator must absolutely be forced to carry out environmentally sustainable activities but where the entire cost is not passed on to the individual operator. We need to have a system in which the money that the operator has to spend on environmental improvement measures really goes to environmental improvement measures rather than bureaucratic mills like grinders and to the state process that consumes all the financial means. It is reasonable that the state should also be involved in taking responsibility here. If there is anything you can accuse the Swedish state of in this regard, it is that you are inconsistent. Only a few decades ago, large amounts of state subsidies were granted to establish the hydroelectric power plants that are currently condemned by county boards and are not considered to be allowed to remain. We must have a system in which we take into account all the parties involved in this process. We must also have a system in which the survival of the fish is actually taken into account. We have a duty to protect biodiversity, but we should also see the potential of the industry that could flourish if we dealt with this issue in a more responsible and better way. We must ensure that the great powers of the Swedish courts actually do what they have been ordered to do. Our county boards have a great responsibility to focus on this rather than chasing individuals who happen to own a small hydroelectric power plant.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-54	Mr President, I would like to If anyone wonders why I suddenly throw myself out and debate housing and real estate issues that I normally do not debate, I can say that it is because Roger Hedlund, who is our spokesperson on these issues, became father yesterday to a boy. I thought I'd start with our pleas so I wouldn't forget them. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am in favour of only reservation 6 under paragraph 5 on water activities. Now I heard that the Social Democrats did not support their reservation 5, so it is quite clear that there will be a vote on reservation 6. If it should then fall, it would be a question of supporting the Alliance's proposal, which is also the committee's proposal. Mattias Bäckström Johansson will later explain our position a little more carefully as he is more knowledgeable in the subject of small-scale hydropower. We believe that our proposal is the best one, and that is why we are calling for our own proposal to be approved in the first place. We do not therefore believe that the Alliance's proposal is the best but will vote for it if our proposal falls. The Alliance wants to prioritise housing at the expense of national interests. But here we do not share the Alliance's view. To see it as a problem that national interests have actually hindered the construction of housing in a number of municipalities is, to me, doubtful reasoning. The very idea of national interests is that they should influence. Then we can always discuss how big national interests should be, how much they should influence, where they should be, whether they should be bigger or smaller and so on. But building homes unhindered on our national interests is not at least our support. We would, however, like to see more national interests. One of the things we would like to see is agricultural land. We believe that our best agricultural land should be classified as national interest, as is done in Denmark, for example. It is sad and somewhat surprising that we do not even get the support of the Center Party in this view, as the Center Party sometimes pretends to be a rural party. In recent years we have seen in Skåne several examples where the value of putting business on the country's best agricultural land has been questioned. One of the largest distribution centres in the country is located on the best arable land outside Landskrona. Okay, it's a company and they have requests for where they want to build, but does it really need to be on the absolute best agricultural land in all of Sweden when you can move it just a few miles northeast? Perhaps an even more shameful example is forensic psychology outside Trelleborg. We politicians decide exactly where it should be and how it should work, and we put it on the best agricultural land. Any strange explanation of access to skills and proximity to detention centres and courts would be a justification for building this on the best agricultural land. But one must ask: What is really the most important thing? That the staff can go a few miles or if we have food in the future? These are, in fact, the factors we face each other. You used to be careful where you put buildings. Buildings were not laid on land where they had good agricultural land. We have left it because agricultural land is seen as more or less worthless, or at least much less worth than the land on which we are based. This is a problem. When it comes to legal psychology, there are really no excuses that can be justified for building on the best agricultural land. If it's too far to the court or the jail, it's actually possible to move the court and the jail. In addition, land close to the best agricultural land will be released. Private interests would then have the opportunity to develop and take over that land. Mr President, I would like to With that, I would like to thank myself.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-64	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposals contained in the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. For time winning, I choose not to insist on our reservation no. 5. We humans have a range of needs and interests that need to be met in our everyday lives. I think of things like roof over head, being able to put organic and locally produced food for the family on the table. It is clever to just be able to turn the tap to get good water out of it, also to a very cheap money. When we press the button, the light lights up. You can charge your car with renewable energy. We need to be able to get where we want, to friends, to practice, to the theatre and to work. It is ecological, social and economic sustainability when we get all these aspects together. In order to meet these interests and needs, we need to protect high-quality agricultural land. We need to protect drinking water. We need to be able to transport energy from rapids, solar cells and wind turbines to our homes. We need to build railroads where people already live and work. We need to build housing where the sustainable infrastructure is located. That is what is a sustainable construction of society. It is possible to build housing, protect agricultural land and drinking water and secure these transports of energy. Yes, a balance needs to be struck. It is especially difficult when many interests and needs are put against each other. Here I think it is important that the decisions are taken by those closest to them. There is also usually the most detailed knowledge. But we also need a national collection so that we pull in the same direction. Access to clean water is a basic need for us humans. Sometimes we may take it for granted in the country in which we live, compared with other countries where there is an acute water shortage that affects every person's everyday life. Let us state the root of the doubt that all natural resources should be protected in solidarity with animals, nature and ecological systems, in solidarity with the world's people and in solidarity with future generations. That's what's in the balance. The sustainable and modern society we build here is also part of the global sustainable construction of society. While we're talking about water, I'd like to highlight the water in Vättern. It has a particular interest. In the short and long term, it will be a very important source of fresh water for many citizens. Sweden has the very favourable condition that there is enough land to meet all these needs. We can build housing without building on agricultural land, railway reserves, management reserves or important natural land. The land exists, but I'm having a hard time seeing why we can't all see it. Maybe we move mostly in cities and see most cities. But the land is also here. That is why we are building higher and denser where people and smart transport are. By giving high and close priority to long-term planning at the expense of sparse and scattered, the contradiction between national interests and housing disappears. We want to invest in a dense new construction in public transport near locations where there is trade, service, housing and where you can travel by bike, foot or by public transport. It promotes attractive and sustainable urban development, and that is where integration challenges and climate challenges can be addressed. We do not need to build on attractive and valuable agricultural land, perhaps only in a few exceptional cases. The market needs to be saved, and we can do that to produce the organically produced sustainable products that we need to survive, that is, the food on our tables. Mr President, I would like to If we build for more people with economics, health, well-being and the environment in mind, we don't have to argue with different national interests that should be put against each other and housing that should be put against national interests. Then we can focus on building the green and modern society that we are so desperately in need of.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-75	Mr President, I would like to I hope that the decision that we take here a little later today – after the Swedish Democrats have clarified their somewhat wobbly attitude – means that owners of small-scale hydropower can take a sigh, and then not the last breath without a sigh of relief. When, during the vote, a majority in the committee, or at least most of the members of the Riksdag, hopefully support Lars Tysklind's motion for the government to return to Parliament with proposals for a regulatory framework on permit processes for water activities that are flexible and adapted to small-scale activities, this must mean that owners of up to 2 000 power plants should be able to spend their small resources on environmental measures and a better power take-off from their turbines and not put them into complicated and uncertain reconsiderations of their permits. There are a large number of individual motions from Members, preferably from the Center Party and other alliance parties, which are fully or partly approved today, and that is very gratifying. The flowing, renewable electricity produced in these power plants accounts for 7 per cent of total hydropower production. It may seem a little bit, but where it is, it creates, in addition to clean energy, a living countryside that forms the basis for a business that creates jobs, growth and tax revenue locally. In addition, dams are part of the cultural landscape that we in other contexts in various debates, not least this one, says should be protected. The best way to preserve it is to ensure that the activities of these dams and small hydroelectric plants can continue. With the electricity prices we have today, small-scale hydropower is not a profit machine where gold is cut with a knife. But it is not the economy that is the biggest problem, but the legal uncertainty that prevails. Not all county boards, but some, require a re-examination through injunctions, which risk not only stopping ongoing activities, but may also mean that the operator goes bankrupt when he has to restore what was once a functioning hydroelectric power plant with dams and turbines. Mr President, I would like to There are motions in the report from the Center Party, for example, proposing a moratorium, i.e. that the injunctions already announced will not enter into force until the legal situation has been clarified. And with the decision now taken by Parliament, I hope that in practice a moratorium will be introduced, despite the rejection of these motions. It would be unreasonable if we were to find a solution with flexible and workable legislation, while those who have already received an injunction are forced to comply with it. I hope each one understands that. By doing what the government or the investigation intended, namely to ensure that all permits are reviewed, the landscape picture in the countryside would be changed. That would not mean that we could find the fishing routes that we need to restore the biodiversity we once had before these works were granted permission a hundred years ago by letters of privilege and custom. In many of the places where hiking paths must be built, there may not be any fish that wants or can walk. Hydropower has been in service since the Middle Ages and perhaps even further back. Around our ponds there has been a new fauna with a species richness that could be damaged by these hiking paths through the spread of, for example, crayfish plague. The government is preparing the water operations investigation. We in the Committee on Civil Liberties expect a proposal in September as promised, and we will then deal with it. However, in view of the fact that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party do not support the majority and do not, however, demand approval of their reservation, there is still reason for us to be concerned. For the traders I've been talking about now, your response to the trial would be welcome today. In your reservation, you refer to the fact that the Minister for Climate and the Environment, in an answer to the question, pointed out cultural environmental interests as something to be protected, but where does the entrepreneurial interest in rural areas come into play? And what about the production of renewable and flowing energy that our society benefits from every day? After all, hydropower is adjustable and is so far, until another form of energy storage has become sufficiently efficient and cheap, something we will use to balance the electrical energy when the power is needed. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of the proposal contained in the report in the part relating to water activities. Now I would like to say a brief word about the reservations of the Center Party. We do not currently need more national interests to take into account. According to the Center Party's way of looking at it, useful arable land should not be a national interest. Then neither should housing be. We need both food and housing, and it is our task here in Parliament not unnecessarily to prevent it by creating more national interests, stamping more areas in this way and introducing more charges and more regulatory constraints that make the operation more difficult. I agree that housing should be a high priority in the balance. That is why we in the Center Party are behind the joint alliance reservation, with No 1, in the report. However, in our planning, we must also have the opportunity to direct the construction of those land areas where we do not unnecessarily destroy the possibility of producing safe and healthy food in our own country on the best soil for all time. We need to apply low-ground use. This means, as we often talk about in the housing debate, that we should seal up, build on the height and make better use of existing detailed plans. As I said earlier, this does not mean that the arable land should be made a special national interest. On the contrary, we do not need more such restrictions, but rather fewer ones. But the possibility for municipalities to steer settlements away from the best arable land should be strong in the survey planning, and not only in some counties where the best arable land is considered to exist. What is best depends on where in the country you are. It shall be possible to produce food throughout Sweden. Since the emphasis in our position is on emphasising the importance of obtaining housing, I choose not to endorse reservation 3 today. The rest of the reservations I choose for time winning not to demand approval either. The Center Party wants to clarify how we view the issue of national interests more generally. We propose in a party motion that, for example, beach protection should be something that one must be able to decide locally and not be governed by national laws and rules. Regions and municipalities should be given the opportunity to have a dialogue with the state on how to exploit a territory of national interest carefully with, for example, housing in order to increase the attractiveness of that part of the country. Mr President, I would like to I am concerned about the impact of climate change on the built-up environment and the need to plan for rising water levels. Analysis of soil stability and conditions for stormwater management is carried out. This needs to be taken into consideration. Mr President, I would like to The new housing needed must be socially, economically and ecologically sustainable. Pointing out the stormwater as an area where municipalities need to be better prepared and more knowledge about how to plan feels important. The presence of centenary rain combined with the increasing number of hard surfaces when we seal the residential areas means that we need to increase knowledge and do the right thing when planning. We will be planning and building at a significantly increasing rate in the coming years. I was disappointed, to say the least, when I read the report before the debate. There is not much about stormwater, but the more about drinking water. I would ask you Members to drink some of the stormwater when you come out, if it rains, and to compare it with the drinking water. Maybe you can tell the difference.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-96	Mr President, I would like to The need for housing is great. The municipalities that do best with their planning for housing purposes clearly link overall planning with guidelines for housing supply, infrastructure planning and active land policy. We're not just building housing – we're building habitats that should last over time. The assessment is that the relatively decentralised urban planning that we have in Sweden through the municipalities needs to be combined with more comprehensive consideration of national interests where also things such as energy supply, communications, water supply, place of defence and so on are taken into account. It is, of course, perfectly possible to combine the development and conservation of natural areas with strong construction. Proximity to green spaces, parks, play areas and natural areas is crucial for quality of life, health and development. At the same time, it is necessary to meet our need for housing. Then remember that Sweden is a sparsely populated country. In our municipalities we often have very empty land to build on. Only a few per cent of Sweden's surface area is currently built. There's room for much more. Sometimes it may sound in the debate that it is between cutting down the trees and building homes. Nothing could be more wrong. Today, there are huge amounts of homes in complete detailed plans. It is land on which we can build but which is not yet built. For example, the County Administrative Board in Stockholm this week stated that in Stockholm alone there are 60 000 housing units on their way in detailed plans. Throughout the country, we have in clear detail plans hundreds of thousands of potential homes that we could build. For example, there are construction companies that sit on thousands and thousands of building rights without building. It is not because there is a nature reserve in the way everywhere, but because today the construction companies are perhaps rather based on speculation. It would be good if we looked more closely at how we make sure that land is built. It is not necessarily about planning and quality, but rather about quantity. Getting many homes is therefore also largely a housing financing issue. I understand that sometimes it can be much easier to say that if we make different pen lines in the legislation or stand and point to a nature reserve, we will get many more housing. But I think we all know that's not really the case. Today there is very clear ground. What is needed are many times completely different things, such as government funding, to have, among other things, the muscles to build that land, and a clearer pressure on the companies that currently sit on land but do not build it. At the same time, rules are needed for us to build with quality. The houses and habitats we will be living with for perhaps several centuries to come be ehöver built in a good way right from the start. To solve problems in one place, therefore, planning is a method that primarily creates values and opportunities for the whole of society and not just for the developers. It's important to remember. We need to focus on how to create affordable rental apartments and how to get more humane prices on housing, so that ordinary income earners have the opportunity to pay for them. Today we can see that the municipalities with great ambitions are also able to plan for construction with the necessary qualities. It is not always the acquis that is lacking, but it may be the political will of the individual municipality or perhaps the political creativity. I read a DN article by Björn Sundin, Municipal Commissioner in Örebro. He writes:... Örebro is one of Sweden's major municipalities... that has built the most per capita in recent years. At the same time, we have been appointed Å rets Friluftskommun 2012, 2013, 2014... largely thanks to our work to make nature more close and more accessible to the island bridges. It is therefore perfectly possible to combine a high rate of construction with high ambitions for outdoor life and nature conservation. The fact that we are fast when it comes to building processes is a prerequisite for the high rate of housing construction, but also an important explanation that the companies in Örebro are growing so fast and that so many new companies are setting up here. ..................................................... Perhaps one of the most important actions is a more structured effort to exchange skills between the state, regional and municipal levels in sustainable urban development. Let us look at the municipalities that do this well, which manage to find solutions to the real conflicts of interest that exist in planning, and learn from each other! Probably a serious exchange of experience is much more worthwhile than many other legislative formulations that we can rehash in this House otherwise. In planning, the municipality must already take into account environmental and climate aspects, promote long-term good management of land, water, energy and raw materials and good environmental conditions in general, as well as housing construction and development of the housing stock. The municipality will present today how the spatial planning should take into account and coordinate the master plan with relevant national and regional objectives and how long-term housing needs are to be met. During the consultations with the County Administrative Board, the state's interests will be clarified. The municipality's assessments shall be based on information and advice on general interests such as housing construction and development of the housing stock. So there is a great deal of scope for cooperation and cooperation in the current legislation, I would say. But it also requires that all actors start to do so and demonstrate an ambition to really want to move forward and get along. This does not mean that there is no room to tighten and improve the regulatory framework, but the conditions are good today. Even clearer regional planning is likely to be needed in future in the context of social planning. In this way, municipalities can discuss across municipal boundaries how to use land and water areas in the best possible way, and one can perhaps more clearly divide responsibilities between themselves depending on the different physical conditions that exist in the different municipalities. There are also development areas for county boards to be even clearer about state interests, for example, to be able to clarify at an early stage whether, for example, a construction project is feasible. In order for different interests to stay together and interact, it is important that different actors see each other as teammates and not necessarily as enemies in this process. In a game where everyone blames each other, it ultimately becomes pretty bad. The previous government appointed the National Interest Investigation which has produced a final report that is currently being prepared. The Left Party therefore intends to present its position when any more concrete proposals are put on the table of the Riksdag.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-113	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say that it is very nice to be here to debate with the Committee on Civil Liberties. It's something I've done in previous days, but now it's been a while. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report, except in paragraph 1, which deals with national interests and housing needs. Instead, I am in favour of reservation 1 which the Liberals have together with the other alliance parties. We can well note that this report deals mainly with the handling and formulation of national interests. The second main point is how the regulatory framework for water activities should be designed with a focus on the fact that the permit process must be adapted and be appropriate and flexible according to the size of the business. From the Liberals' point of view, it is important that we now have an announcement on this very subject. Mr President, I would like to In reservation 1, the Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, make it clear that the need and construction of housing must be an important part of the design of the regulatory framework for national interests. Basically, it is not a matter of being in favour of or against national interests, it is a matter of being a functioning system. Balances between national interests and other general interests as well as balances between different national interests, because there are many places where national interests are actually stacked together, are already being done in the master plan processes today. It is of course very important that this works well. How this is to be handled has been discussed since the investigation. I do not have a direct aspect of it, but I still think that when we introduce the concept of a basic public interest, we are getting closer to some kind of semi-rich interest. It is quite interesting to see that the interest in housing supply could be such, along with other things such as taking into account, for example, farmland which is also mentioned and which has been mentioned here before. The majority of committees rejects the reservation and the request for exercise with the reason that it is prepared within the Government Office. Of course, it has its trueness, but from the Liberals' side, it is very important and central that the government actually knows where the Riksdag is on this issue and that, when we move on with this, the interest in housing supply must be at the centre of our attention so that we do not get a system of national interest that discourages housing construction. Mr President, I would like to Then I'll go over to water operations. Today, perhaps, it is primarily about hydropower activities. There are also other water activities. Just to be quite clear: the starting point of the Liberals is that we fully support the protection that exists for our four national rivers and for the other watercourses in the 4th chapter of the environmental code. So that is not what we are actually discussing, but what we are discussing is the classic hydropower conflict, which is obvious and well-known and which is about production versus environmental values. In order to make the necessary balances in this conflict, as has been mentioned here before, we must see that there are historical debts in this. It has not always been done that very well, and that is because times and values change. Nevertheless, it is important to say that this is not an insoluble conflict. There are good examples, although perhaps Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin raised a bad example. By the way, the example itself was not so bad, but the result with regard to Siljan trout was bad: There is a regulatory framework, but it has not led to the right things. There are other examples that are usually mentioned. At Stornorrfors in Umeälven we have Sweden's longest salmon staircase, and it is still a measure with a very great environmental benefit as it opens up the entire Vindelälven river for migration of fish. There is also a project under way in the Fax River in northern Jämtland, where it will be possible to create a 17 km freedom of migration for fish without affecting hydropower production. So there are opportunities for solutions, and here the national strategy developed by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish Energy Agency in the summer of 2014, I think it was, nevertheless, contributed to a climate of conversation where these kinds of issues can be discussed as well. Mr President, I would like to As I said, there are opportunities, but what we are now discussing is the future. There is therefore currently work on the Water Activity Investigation. A bill is promised this autumn, and it is basically good that there should be proposals on this. Not for nothing, if it is good or bad is really entirely dependent on the content of the bill, and on the Liberals and others who are behind today's announcement, it is a requirement that it must contain appropriate and flexible permit processes. That's exactly what it's all about. The large number of exercises on small hydropower shows that this is a problem that is present in many parts of the country. I have also, like Leif Nysmed, been in contact with a hydropower owner, which I think many of us have. I am often struck by the great interest and ambition that there is to take action, but one still feels that one is stuck in complex and administratively heavy licensing processes. Basically, it is not a question of not being able to set clear and relevant environmental requirements. It is just as I mentioned: here, of course, hydroelectric power must be involved in taking on its responsibilities. It is, as I said earlier, about how the authorisation process itself is designed and not exactly what the conditions are in the individual cases. Of course, it must always be assumed that reasonable measures are taken to achieve minimum damage to biodiversity. It is not least about fish migration routes. But there are other things, of course, and that is clear in the answer from the Minister for the Environment about cultural preservation. There are, of course, such interests. We should not forget what Ola Johansson highlighted about the rule of law and property rights. They must also be included in the discussion on these issues. The central problem is that there are so many permits under older legislation. They are in the absolute majority. Then, in principle, there are as many who do not have a permit for their activities. The starting point must, of course, be to replace with permits under the environmental code. There cannot be so much activity with permits under old and outdated legislation. We are now discussing how we can achieve these permit processes in a good and effective way. Now that we are discussing small-scale hydropower, it is only to be noted, firstly, that the problems and the question of the environmental benefits of certain measures are transparent and, secondly, that there is often a lack of financial resources to carry out the major studies required. In most cases, they do not lead anywhere. The money is wasted on the permit process rather than being spent on concrete environmental measures. There are thousands of water activities that are not used today. There are old ponds and mills. It is also part of the problem that needs to be addressed. It should be possible to tear and clean up fish and other aquatic creatures for free hiking routes. The obvious risk is that, instead of obtaining a permit and being able to continue the operation, the operation will end and must be closed down, although there is clearly a possibility of making an improvement through simple means and concrete environmental measures. The end result is in many cases a discontinued operation, but the obstacle remains. No one has the resources to take responsibility. The essence of the announcement is that it is totally unreasonable for small-scale and large-scale hydro power to be tested on the same template. A bill will be promised this autumn. It must contain a solution to this. The signal to the government is that the Riksdag requires a solution to be included. Liberals think it is important that this is clearly stated. The same clarity is found in Liberals' exercise. The government has the ball and has the clear position from the Riksdag to relate to. I hope that this will lead to the proposal containing a solution with authorisation tests that are flexible and appropriate also for small-scale hydropower.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-138	Mr President, I would like to I am not normally a member of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. I am a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. But there are also issues related to energy policy measures activities with small hydropower. The situation is very acute for small-scale hydropower, and the future of many of these power stations is threatened. This is not just an environmental policy issue. Energy-wise, they contribute more than 4 terawatt hours in a normal year, which is certainly less than a tenth of the total hydropower production. But from the point of view of efficiency, these works are important because most of them are located in southern Sweden, where there is today a severe shortage of electricity generation. With their high power value, they contribute up to 900 megawatts to the power balance during the winter months. These 900 megawatts can be compared with, for example, the contribution of wind power of over 660 megawatts for the whole of Sweden according to the Swedish power grid report, which is submitted every year over the power balance for the current winter. Small hydroelectric power thus has a larger addition to the power balance than all installed wind power has in Sweden. The main obstacle to these power stations today is extensive re-testing of existing licences often based on what it would have been like if the power plant were not in place at all. But in many of these places the kinetic energy in the watercourses has been used for a very long time. In some places it is possible to trace the usage back to the Middle Ages. Thus, this activity is also part of our cultural history. For the Swedish Democrats it is an unreasonable order that has now arisen where the cost of new trials is not related to production capacity and where the cost can in practice be as great as for larger players. The focus will thus be removed from the environmental improvement measures, which should be the main ones. The government parties, together with the Left Party, see no reason to support the proposal for an announcement that the committee has reached. The reservation for which it is certainly not in favour but which it has nevertheless adopted a position in committee states that the licensing processes should not lead to unnecessary administration which prevents operators from spending resources on measures to improve the environment. A proposal for the assessment of water activities is expected after the summer. It may sound nice, and it is probably many affected power station owners who wonder how this will crystallize. There's a cloud of anxiety. For example, there are proposals made by the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management at the end of last year. It is called a proposal for a review of hydroelectric power production with proposals for, among other things, an environmental fund for hydroelectric power. The annexes to the proposal put forward state that every other small-scale hydroelectric station is to be dismantled using the proposed environmental fund. It also highlights the need for the State to be able to impose such requirements on its activities in the event of a review of existing permits that it needs to be closed down, which is not possible today. Is this proposal that will come back to the autumn from the government in the forthcoming bill? In such cases, there is every reason to be concerned. A clear statement must be given on the conditions under which practitioners will live with their activities in the future. The Swedish Democrats at least believe that small-scale hydropower is important both from an energy policy perspective and for rural areas, where it often complements other economic activities. We therefore believe it is important to protect and support small-scale hydropower. The committee's proposal is a step in the right direction with the announcement of a more flexible regulatory framework adapted to small-scale activities and where we also hear parts of our proposals. I may think that the honourable Member, Ola Johansson f roba The Center Party, has a strange objection to our having a pervasive attitude on this issue. It is clear from the report how we stand on the issues. Mikael Eskilandersson has explained our position. On the other hand, I think that the attitude of the Center Party is a little more worrying if we hope for a moratorium in such cases but vote against it. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats believe that a moratorium does not go far enough for those who are currently under review and who are in a more precarious situation. We would have liked to have seen a proposal for a moratorium on taking a move without individual individuals being exposed to the unhemable costs involved in the permit trials. We will vote in favour of our reservation, which contains a proposal for a moratorium in the first place, which we believe is necessary. We are not content with hoping that it will lead to a moratorium by voting on other proposals. Of course, we welcome the announcement of more flexible licensing processes. It is nevertheless a step in the right direction, and it is much better than the Parliament not taking any initiative at all.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-152	Mr President, I would like to My habit is faithful, I begin with the reservations. For time winning, I choose to agree only to reservation 4 under item 6, Expropriation compensation, etc. We support all our reservations, but I therefore only support reservation 4. There are a number of issues that are under discussion, Mr President, but I am referring first and foremost to those against which we have reservations. I'd like to start with the jamming server. The disturbance reserve is something that we believe would be needed in today's vulnerable housing market. Disturbances that are not harmful to health should not be an obstacle to building a house or a dwelling, we believe. Also in the next step, when a house or dwelling is sold, it should be possible to enter a so-called disturbance server. The report says a lot about noise, but a disturbance may well be something other than noise. For example, it can be smell from agriculture, light phenomena or the like. There are many examples around our country. For example, houses have been built right next to a larger farm, usually by someone connected to the farm. Then, for some reason, the house has been sold and moved to another owner, and then there have suddenly been complaints and demands on the farm to change its manure management or animal husbandry. This type of problem could be avoided by writing a jamming server, where it is clear from the outset what is going on. Then the buyer also knows what to expect, and we avoid unnecessary restrictions. Another issue that is under discussion, Mr President, is the lease. Today, agriculture is usually run on both owned and leased land. Farming is a form of business that requires a little longer planning than many others, and it can be difficult to change quickly – especially with the current system of EU rules and bureaucracy, which will seek support that is expected to last for five years or for a number of years. Therefore, it is beneficial for the industry if the time that the land is leased is more than a year. Some possession protection should also be provided at short leases. However, there are rather strange rules here that need to be changed. The fact that leases for more than a year have possession protection means that some landowners choose to sign contracts for a maximum of one year at a time because they do not have possession protection. These short contracts create uncertainty for the farmer. It would be more reasonable if the contracts were to have a certain level of property protection even if they were short. While contracts shorter than a year do not have possession protection, possession protection is apparently provided if you set up tent camps on someone else's land. It's strange, isn't it? We want the rules to be better adapted to the way agriculture works, without threshold effects that hinder development. Mr President, I would like to I move on to expropriation compensation, i.e. compensation for infringement of property. It is often a matter of intrusion when new power lines or new mobile network masts are being built. Overall, we think that these allowances are too low even if they have been raised recently. There is also a need for better regulation of how damage caused to a property after an operation is to be compensated. Today, for example, there is no way of getting compensation for the construction of a management street that has caused the forest to blow down, thus opening up the wind to affect the forest in a way that it would not have done if the forest had been untouched. Before taking up new management streets, it should also be consulted with the landowner on the possibilities of taking the lead or making any other kind of intervention in such a way as to minimise damage to the property. Overall, we see a need for this to be properly investigated. That is also what we are proposing. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to deal with the issue of the redemption of historic leases. There have been times that newspapers and the like have misunderstood SD's view of historical leases. I have read in various places that the Swedish Democrats are expected to support the redemption of historic leases. This is not true. The leases that exist where the lease is inherited within a family are quite often owned by the Swedish Church. From the beginning, the property has been bequeathed to the Swedish Church by believers who want their property to bring income to the church forever. I would never support not respecting the last wishes of these people. Of course, we must have respect for the fact that people have the right to do what they want with what they own in their wills – although it ultimately means that the new owner, in this case the Church of Sweden, chooses to lease out, for example, a farm for a very long time because the Church of Sweden itself does not farm. There can be no basis for having to sell something you own. We believe that ownership should be over. I thank you for that, Mr President.
i-EomREbrUtr6nWFt6iTJbFP	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 4. It is important that we can expand the fixed and mobile telecommunications networks, that we can plan for infrastructures that connect each other and that there is the possibility, when necessary, of using land for a fair remuneration through expropriation. It is about the possibility of obtaining compensation for the loss of future income for the land set in relation to the value of the benefit and profit of the developer resulting from the infringement. Here we in the Center Party believe that not enough has been done. It is also not clear how the forest land's capacity for yield is affected during, for example, excavation. The carbon dioxide-lowering capacity of the forest land – we usually call it carbon sink – is reduced in the construction of duct streets, we have been told. This environmental and climate impact is difficult to calculate. It is always difficult to calculate the environmental impact and find replacement models for it. The most important thing, however, is to ensure that as often as possible the land is as small and gentle as possible, and that one chooses first and foremost to dig instead of building open streets. The Parliament of the Centre Party Annika Qarlsson and Fredrik Christensson have mentioned this street. It is planned between Stenkullen in Lerum municipality and Skogsäter in Trollhättan, where you want another lead street even though there are already two. Mr President, I would like to After all, we have talked about the need to produce small-scale electricity in our hydroelectric power plants. We hope, of course, that the need to transfer electricity over long distances will not grow but rather decrease in the future. It is important that we co-plan this in the best possible way and that, in as few cases as possible, we choose to build management streets. We'd rather bury it or even better produce the electrical energy locally. Mr President, I would like to We return every year with a number of motions on a concrete and very requested regulatory simplification for all the united roads in the country. This is about 43,000 miles of road infrastructure. It is 23 000 road owners, hundreds of thousands of property owners, small businesses, forest owners, farmers, homeowners and other private individuals who organise themselves in community associations to manage a road. Many of these associations lack current participation rates for their members. We repeatedly point out that there is a need for a regulatory simplification which means that on each of these occasions you do not have to have a surveyor who comes out to do an execution. The decision on the change in the shares in such a road confluence should instead be made by the association's meeting and then registered by Lantmäteriet. The fact that the rates are kept up to date and perceived as fair is the basis for keeping this voluntary form of road maintenance alive. But I see a little positive, Mr President, how the current government views this question in Morgan Johansson's answer to a written question earlier this year, probably from a centre party. I realise that it does not make sense this time again to seek a majority in Parliament to press the government. That is why I will refrain from pressing for it, but I will come back to this important issue for the Centre Party and the countryside until it is resolved. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a new issue, at least for me. It's the existence of real estate goalkeepers. In the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, we have heard about and discussed car goalkeepers in the past. Finally, we have legislation in place that allows us to get to the person who actually owns and disposes of the vehicle that is written on a person whose assets cannot be foreclosed and who is often registered as the owner of hundreds or perhaps thousands of cars. You can transfer this to real estate. Then you have a place that can be used to dump garbage, set off scrap cars, store chemicals and commercial fertilizers, which you intend to use for bomb production, and other environmentally hazardous substances. I and the exerciser believe that, like the car goalkeepers phenomenon, the problem of property goalkeepers and environmental crimes that occur on a property that is disposed of by someone other than the one on which it is written to dump environmentally harmful substances and other things that may be perceived as littering and dangerous must be highlighted, preferably with an investigation. For time-winning, I'm not pressing for this either. We are content with the question of raising expropriation compensation for the claim of land for power streets, masts and fixed telephone networks. I therefore support the Center Party's reservation No 5.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-184	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 6 and 8. If we are to get the number of homes needed in Sweden today, politics is required. The market is not able to build enough for a price or rent that ordinary employees can pay. Good and spacious homes with affordable rentals require politics. It is precisely the municipality and the elected representatives in the municipality who have housing responsibility in Sweden. It is a mission that can be handled differently depending on the tools you have. My view is that we need to give our elected representatives in the municipalities all the tools available to enable them to fulfil that particular mission: to build enough homes for everyone. Politics is also necessary if we are to break the segregation of our cities. Segregatione n can only be built away with politically conscious decisions to mix up the villa carpets with rentals and to go ahead in certain residential areas and make investments in infrastructure, kindergartens and renovations. Through public housing queues, many more rentals and a municipality and a commons that go ahead, we can build integrated cities that are not torn up in poor and rich. Municipal land preparation and an active land policy are fundamental for municipalities to be able to assume their housing responsibility. The municipalities that do best with their planning for housing purposes clearly link overall planning with guidelines for housing supply, infrastructure planning and active land policy. The task of the state needs to be to facilitate this in different ways with regulations and funding. In order to succeed with one of the most important cornerstones of the Swedish model, the right to housing, democracy and politics need to have clear room for manoeuvre. This is facilitated, for example, by public land ownership. Municipal land ownership makes it easier for us to influence land use and settlements, and local residents can assimilate the increase in land value associated with community building. It provides resources that, for example, can be used to finance infrastructure or implement socially desirable measures that lack market conditions. It can also create the conditions for diversity in urban construction by allowing many developers access to buildable land. Local land ownership can therefore be a means of creating competition and enabling small and medium-sized enterprises to build housing. In 2010, there were two changes to the legislation that partly changed the conditions for municipal land acquisition. The Pre-Purchase Act, which granted the municipality the legal right to acquire properties through pre-purchase transactions, was repealed. Furthermore, the compensation rules of the Expropriation Act were amended, which made it more expensive for municipalities to acquire land. The compensation rules are of particular importance when the municipality negotiates the price with different landowners. The new remuneration rules require a premium of 25% of the market value. Already in the bill of the bourgeois government – it was the bourgeois government that introduced this – it was stressed that the amendment of the remuneration rules would reduce the incentive for long-term municipal land policy. For example, in the role of land intermediary, municipalities are affected by the 25% mark-up. When the municipality sells the land on – this applies even if the municipality has acquired the land for 120 per cent of the land value – it will be the residents who will pay this difference. As a result, the municipalities, which we should do everything we can to remove obstacles to, are far less likely to increase housing construction through active land policy. It costs the residents, you and me, much more today to get land for the purpose of planning and implementing housing. In my opinion, it is not reasonable at the moment, when we need to build more homes, to always strive to overcompensate property owners. The planning process inquiry asked the land and exploitation managers in the 35 largest municipalities about these legislative changes. More than half of them felt that the legislative changes had an impact on the municipality's land acquisition policy. They found that the 25 per cent mark-up of the Expropriation Act has led to an increase in costs and affected the municipality's land acquisition activity. They also argued that the repeal of the Pre-Purchase Act had been at least the same problem. It reduced the possibility of acquiring attractive buildable land. The Pre-Buy Act was also a tool that prevented speculation, gave municipalities a good insight into who planned to buy land and gave municipalities the opportunity for long-term community and housing planning. Municipalities also need to be given greater powers to put pressure on developers who lie on land without building. The absence of market conditions does not hold true. Either today, when the need is so great, one should build on the concrete land of the population that exists here and now, or one should give up the land so that someone else can build. The rise in prices we have seen in the housing market means that fewer and fewer people can get a dwelling. That is simply something that all politicians should react to. It shouldn't take so much money just to have a place to live. Therefore, it is also not connected that construction companies can lie for years on buildable land just to maintain high housing prices. At the same time, the common good needs to become a much stronger and more leading force in the housing market. It is jointly owned companies that can put downward pressure on rents and take the lead in innovative models that improve housing standards. It also requires the presence of the municipality, with a land policy that can facilitate and support the role of the public good. The Left Party also believes that municipalities should receive additional support to develop land for rent construction. The right to rent is the most easily accessible form of tenure we have – it does not require you to have put away money during half the youth period or that you have parents with a thick wallet. Therefore, as a complement to the major housing policy initiative made by the Left Party together with the Government, we want to encourage land leases to tenancy building. We believe, like the Plan Process investigation, that it should be further investigated whether we should introduce state land acquisition aid to the municipalities. In this way, we can clearly reward those municipalities that are making an effort and have an active land policy. A land acquisition subsidy that requires housing construction can be a way of clearly rewarding construction and ambitious municipalities from the national level. All in all, the Left Party's proposal would lead to a sharp increase in construction. In these times when so many go homeless, the government cannot afford to say no to good ideas.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-200	Mr President, I would like to The report deals with the site law institute, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to stress how important it is to arrive at a solution as soon as possible. I have asked both the Minister of Housing and the Minister of Justice a question. The legislation is in the Ministry of Justice, but the Minister for Housing should feel for this issue as it affects an incredible number of people's living situations. The plots date from 1907 as a solution for the less well-off to be able to build houses even when money was missing to buy the plot where the house was supposed to be. Today, living in a plot of land is characterised by insecurity and many times very challenging economic conditions. During the alliance period, we set up an investigation into land leases and redemptions, which then presented a number of proposals on how to modernise the property in a land lease. Among other things, there were proposals to continue the adjustment of the debtor each year and to make the pay-off periods one year. For small house leaseholds, the valuation interval was proposed to be three years. The investigation also suggested that the interest rate should be set at a general rate based on the long-term real interest rate rather than vary, as it is today. I would like to stress once again that, in order to avoid a situation where about 50 000 households are severely affected in 2018, active preparation work is needed that presents a solution as soon as possible. I hope, therefore, that the government will take the initiative to modernise the rules governing the price picture for residents living in plots of land. Often the price increase will be very large in a short time. Therefore, it would be good to look at a greater and better range as proposed by the investigation. Another issue raised in the report is law-enforcement. The Alliance government made a number of changes, which have had some effect, but it is important to really follow up on this. The Christian Democrats are asking for legal transitions when a property changes ownership. It would be safer for everyone if there was some security built into the law-enforcement system. As I said, improvements have been made, but more needs to be done. Even signing up at another person's address is today too easy. The starting point should be a check with the person at the address before you can sign up there. There is much talk of integrity in this House, but this is indeed a matter of integrity. It is very burdensome when you find out that someone has signed up at your address. According to the report, work is under way in the Government Office. I would like to stress that it should be given priority in view of the inconvenience these situations bring to people. You can be shocked when you come back after being away on vacation and there is a lot of mail to another person among your own mail at home. The problem has been around for a long time, but it's time we got to it.
i-VVzRHAjQxYFYFGDM78Hf9j	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by calling for approval by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in its report 2015/ 16:CU 15 Property law. For time winning, I will take the short version of my speech. I would like to start with a quote from the Prime Minister's government statement: I think it says a lot. When I read my speech, Mr President, I tried to make the text sound more comfortable. I didn't quite make it, but I hope it sounded okay. With regard to participation rates in road transport, I would like to say a brief word about this. Ola's already brought it up. Refusal is a common facility that is used for several properties and serves purposes, such as roads. The work of road associations falls under the Construction Act, and the Riksdag decided in spring 2015 on certain amendments and simplifications to the Act that entered into force in July 2015. The purpose of the amendment is to simplify the procedure and to give joint venture associations more opportunities to represent certain shareholders in the review of decisions on the execution of buildings and agreements on the modification of the unit rates of properties. Furthermore, I would like to point out that a proposal is currently being prepared within the Government Office to amend the legislation so that it is possible for road associations themselves to change the percentages of the properties included in the association. I think that's good. Mr President, I would like to Another issue I want to raise is the purpose of expropriation. This is an important and interesting question about the current situation we have in Sweden regarding the housing shortage. Through expropriation, a property can be used to meet various societal purposes. The claim may be made with ownership, access rights or servit rights. Special rights may be revoked or restricted. According to the Act, the municipality is entitled to expropriate land to be used for agglomerations. Expropriation can also take place to meet purposes related to communications, drive, heat, water and sewage, business, safety and security areas, defence, culture and outdoor activities. The report is currently being prepared within the Government Office, and we must try to respect that work. Mr President, I would like to Another issue I would like to raise is the pre-purchase law. Other Members have already mentioned it, but I just want to say something brief. According to the Pre-Purchase Act, a municipality had pre-purchase rights for the sale of certain types of immovable property or land leaseholds. The original purpose of the Act was to strengthen municipalities' ability to acquire land that was needed for new exploitation or for more thorough conversion of older properties or settlement areas. The Pre-Buy Act was repealed, and this was justified by the fact that the Act had played its part as a means to meet the municipalities' need for land for agglomerations. Once the pre-purchase law had an important function, but that time is over. The law ended in 2010. We do not believe that it is appropriate to reintroduce the law in the same form it had when it was repealed. Perhaps we should look at other forms; I cannot say that today. We believe it is urgent and important that the municipalities' need for land for urban settlements can be met, not least in order to enable increased housing construction. Our ambition is to improve and simplify the regulatory framework. Mr President, I would like to Now I have raised many points, but I also think it is important to raise goaltenders in real estate transactions. Not only does it have legal responsibility, but it also has a moral responsibility to behave and comply with existing regulations. According to Chapter 29. Section 1 of the Environmental Code, with criminal provisions on environmental crime, is sentenced to a person who intentionally or negligently stores or disposes of waste or other substance in a way that can cause a pollution... I will not read the entire text but will refer interested people to read it. This meant that the property owner or the operator can in principle be held liable for criminal offences if he or she has been aware of the waste on the property and has not taken any measures to reduce the effects of possible pollution. Provisions on criminal liability for environmental crime are contained in the environmental code, to which I referred earlier. Therefore, there is no reason to propose any initiative. Mr President, I would like to The last part of the report I would like to mention concerns the redemption of historic leases. Others have mentioned it, but I would also like to mention it. Historical leases refer to leases held by members of the same family for several generations. Landowners of historical leases are mainly institutions of a public nature, such as the state and the Swedish Church. No definition of the concept of historical lease is laid down in law. There has been a survey of historical leases, which has shown that the number of historic leases has fallen sharply since the 1980s and that part of the decrease is due to the fact that tenants have been allowed to redeem their leases. The survey has not revealed any new circumstances that would suggest that a redemption right is compatible with Chapter 2. Section 15, the form of government. According to the form of government and the European Convention, it is not possible to force redemptions. In conclusion, I would like to say that the investigations carried out by both social democratic and bourgeois governments have previously pointed out that it cannot be said that it is of urgent public interest, and therefore such a law has not been implemented either.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-222	Mr President, I would like to We are in today's great building of society. In the new Sweden that is now emerging, we need step by step to modernise property law. Interest in this is evident in the motions we are discussing today. When we build up sustainable Sweden, we need to clarify how we relate to each other when we use someone's property for the common affairs we have, whether it is about building a cycle path or wind turbines or making some noise. It is about what we build where, if we get worse living conditions for others and how the relationship between different properties and property owners can be regulated. In a way, it is also about regulating the relationship between people. Those of you who share the staircase or ass with a neighbor know that it is good to have clear and simple rules that you can agree on. It is also about regulating our common needs and our individual needs as individuals. In modern, green society, there are many needs to be met. We have talked about this before when we have talked about, for example, national interests. It is about our well-being, the major climate challenges and the living environment around us that affects how we feel and live our lives in everyday life. That means priorities. I believe that these priorities need finally to be made by those most affected, i.e. people with local knowledge in municipalities and regions. However, in order for our common needs also to be met, we need to balance local and regional decisions with national needs and a clear direction. In modern society, building dense and sustainable cities is a challenge to keep transport needs down while stimulating a healthy lifestyle. But it is also a question of linking communities with other modes of transport than cars in less urban environments. This leads us to two of the many issues dealt with in the motions today. It is about noise, that is noise, as it has been called, and cycling. There are many ways to get through this world. Some are more sustainable and more important than others. We all know that it is necessary to reduce emissions from our journeys. It is even that it does not help if the cars go on solar electricity, for they simply take too much space. The very streets they roll on take too much space. In addition, the streets are torn at furious speed and cost an incredible amount in maintenance. It also sounds far too much about several of our means of transport. As you know, the noise rules have changed in the previous year. The last amendments entered into force only at the end of the year. Let us therefore wait and see what the effects are before making changes that increase the risk of ill health. Instead, let us see what we can do to reduce noise levels. When fewer drive cars and when the cars, for example, roll more slowly in some areas, we fix the noise at the source. As with much preventive work, this is where the measures should be put in place. Therefore, creating more vibrant and vibrant urban environments where cycling and public transport are prioritised goes hand in hand with more land being available for building housing. The same is true when we move or shut down a city-by-city airport. Cycling is a quiet and convenient way to travel in the dense city. A national cycling strategy is approaching, and it is a way of influencing the future. We know that our health improves if we cycle, either all the way between A and B on our trip or up to a switch point where we can go over to the train or bus. We also know that the environment is good if people cycle more often and leave the car at home when it works. Here, an interaction with landowners will be needed to make the bike part of public transport. I believe that a clear ambition from the state will be a good support for the regions, just as the regional cycling strategies developed around the country help to connect municipalities. Mr President, I would like to Surely you can see the new, green, beautiful world in front of you: quiet housing near public transport, bustling urban environments and cycle paths that become part of public transport even outside the dense, sustainable cities. I see it in front of me, and I like it!
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-236	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the KU report 15 on freedom and rights. The report deals with requests from this year's and last parliamentary year's general period of exercise. First of all, I can see that in this House there is a large majority in favour of maintaining and developing generous protection for our rights and freedoms. If we are not united, it is usually about how fast things should happen or about some small detail. We agree with the great paragraphs, the great principles and the major features. Unfortunately, there is a major exception to this very positive attitude of the majority of the Chambers to fundamental rights and freedoms, and that is the attitude of the Swedish Democrats on these issues. In the report, their whole world view and view of people who are not like themselves are made clear by the numerous reservations they have in the report following the flood of motion requests from Swedish democratic Members to restrict other people's human rights and freedoms. Idea, thought and will seem to be based solely on the right of the majority, the strong, to be able to sit above the little man. It becomes clear, especially when one reads that they want to remove protection against discrimination for certain groups in the form of government. They claim that the current regime does not protect Swedes. It is a particularly strange statement that becomes more and more absurd the longer you think about it. With this reasoning, no one other than those who have the opportunity to discriminate, for example, women, gays, Muslims, Pentecostals or people with a different skin colour could be Swedish. In that case, only those who can discriminate could be Swedish. In their eagerness to make people unjust and vulnerable, the Swedish Democrats are also willing to make people stateless. It is a position that goes completely contrary to the position that the countries of the world have supported since 1961 through the United Nations Convention to Combat Statelessness. In 2006, the UNHCR had some 2.6 million people in its registers worldwide who were stateless. Their belief, however, was that about 11 million people on our globe were without citizenship. It is a sum that the Swedish Democrats want to replenish, completely contrary to the principles of citizenship set out in the form of government, as well as in international conventions and commitments. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, I would like to mention their view of freedom of religion. It is clear that they want to remove religious freedom for those who happen to be Muslims. Muslims should not be allowed to have prayer eutrope, although it does not disturb anyone in the isolated cases that we have had in Sweden. I won't let them wear a veil if they happen to be under 15 years old. This is very strange, and it is also contrary to a fundamentally recognised freedom, namely freedom of religion. Last but not least, I should mention that I think it is very positive that the committee, broadly speaking, agrees that we must have some form of compensation in the event of violations under the European Convention. It follows that if the Strasbourg Court finds that someone has been the victim of a violation, that person shall be entitled to compensation. This right does not exist under Swedish law, and it is reasonable for Swedish courts to be able to award such damages. I shall raise another issue where, unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats say no. Obviously, we are not supposed to comply with the European Convention and its rights. It does not seem important to this party, which is doing its very best to remove rights from those who need them most. Mr President, I would like to With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-C7762xaAKkmLx3NtJhaxSd	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, Minister of State Per Bolund, Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll and Minister Gabriel Wikström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-248	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Labour. We see that unemployment is increasing among foreign-born people and now, in fact, more than half of all unemployed people. After eight years, barely half of them have come to work. According to part of the government's agreement with the Alliance in October, on the refugee crisis, career introduction positions – YA jobs – will also apply to new arrivals. It's about getting more people to work. The agreement included that companies not covered by collective agreements could also apply the form of employment, as many non-contracted companies can offer jobs. It has now been five months since the settlement, and nothing is happening. I note that the government either does not understand the seriousness or may not be interested in fulfilling the agreement. My question is therefore: how long will the matter be prepared in the Government Office, and when will the measure be in place?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-251	Madam President, I would like Let me first correct: it is not the case that unemployment among people born abroad is increasing, but, on the contrary, it is decreasing. By contrast, the share of unemployed persons born abroad is increasing, which is due to the increase in the share of working-age persons born abroad. When it comes to changes in job introductions, it is ready. As regards the extension of the so-called YA jobs to new arrivals, the government, as the opposition parties are informed, intends to take a decision on the implementation of this on 21 April. The second part of career introductions is a bit more tricky. This is about a collective form of employment that we will open up to them without a collective agreement, which is a bit of a tulipanaros. It also states in the agreement that this should be investigated, and we prepare it within the Government Office.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-253	Madam President, I would like I note that I am not getting a correct answer to the question from the Government and that the Government is a little dragging its feet. The situation is serious and, in the meantime, more and more people are falling into unemployment, which is regrettable. The government should show that it is serious about both the agreement and taking measures to get more people into work. Five months have already passed since the agreement, so I wonder if we can expect a sharp proposal before the summer.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-254	Madam President, I would like I've answered the question. The issue is well prepared, and the government expects to take a decision on 21 April.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-255	Madam President, I would like I also have a question for Minister Ylva Johansson. After all, we in the alliance parties and government parties agreed last autumn on a migration agreement, which included increasing the number of quota refugees – resettlement places in the UN quota system – to 5 000. Yesterday the government went out and announced that half of the places should instead be used for family immigration. That is not what we agreed on last autumn, I would like to point out. In addition, it goes against the whole idea of the UN quota system, which is based on the fact that it is the people with the greatest need for protection who should be received on quota and not necessarily the people who have a relative in Sweden. The question is therefore: why do the Social Democrats and the Green Party want to use the United Nations refugee quota system for family immigration?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-256	Madam President, I would like Maybe there's been some misunderstanding here. We have agreed to increase the number of quota refugees to 5 000. All quota refugees are appointed in cooperation with the UNHCR. That is the definition of a quota refugee. When selecting quota refugees, it is not unnatural that you also look at people who already have a connection to Sweden, in the same way as you make other assessments when choosing quota refugees. But it is therefore a question of quota refugees.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-257	Madam President, I would like This just gets messier and messier. The background is that the government has said that it wants to stop family reunification within the group or needing protection. Then the Green Party gets cold feet around this, and then they try to create some valve for some family immigration. Then you should take it from the quota – from the UN refugee quota you should cover the family immigration! This is incomprehensible. In addition, you are building incentives for people to get into the rankboats across the Mediterranean in order to get family immigration that very way.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-258	Madam President, I would like It is part of the agreement between six parties that we should increase the number of quota refugees. We will of course have a dialogue on how this is to be done. In the legislative referral the government has presented, there is nothing about quota refugees, but we have the opportunity to have a dialogue there. Quota refugees are appointed in cooperation with the UNHCR.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-260	Madam President, I would like In November last year, the government elected to contribute SEK 11 billion to the country's municipalities in an attempt to meet the running costs of receiving new arrivals. In a follow-up motion, I and my party asked for a couple of things: we wanted funding to be sought within the framework of the existing migration budget rather than borrowing money, and we wanted a guarantee that the money would really be used in the core business of welfare. I also warned that there is an imminent risk that you will have to go back to Parliament and ask for more money if you do not look at the whole cost picture. Now the government wants to raise another 10 billion, and this time again it is apparently the municipalities that have taken the least responsibility that should be prioritised. Can Minister Bolund guarantee that this time the extra resources really go to the core business of welfare, or is it more reasonable to believe that this is another one in a series of initiatives on mass immigration – disguised as an investment in welfare?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-262	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the municipalities will get more work when more people come to our country. From the government's side, we see it as an opportunity. When more people come, it is something that stimulates our labour market and gives us a higher turnover. We also have, for example, a growth that is greater than it would have been. We see this as something that benefits the Swedish economy and society. Of course, it will also entail costs, and therefore it is important that we increase resources to not least municipalities and county councils. We do this for two reasons – both so that we can give a good start to the people who come to our country, so that they can enter the labour market and the housing market and receive education that is relevant, and so that we can strengthen welfare. It is about really making sure that school, care and care for the elderly work. This money is now being spent on the local government sector. It is ultimately the municipalities, county councils and regions that decide how resources are to be used, so that it can be adapted to local conditions.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-265	Madam President, I would like The government also claims that the initiative will create a number of public jobs. However, I can tell you that welfare is not just about money, but at least equally about trained staff. Where is this reserve of labour hiding? If we have a shortage of teachers in school, we do not solve that by giving more money to the municipalities, because there are no more teachers to hire. Would it not be more reasonable to focus such an effort on education and better working conditions in the public sector?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-266	Madam President, I would like Of course, this is not the only initiative that the government is making to meet the challenge we are facing, but we are making a number of different initiatives. This includes, of course, the investment in education and training. There will be more teachers and also other staff groups needed in welfare. Here we also see all the people who now come to our country as a great resource. There are many who have worked as a teacher or in health care and who could take the step in and just strengthen Swedish welfare through rather small efforts. We are now adding additional resources from the government.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-269	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. Last autumn, a broad package of measures was presented to reduce the increase in sick leave by seven areas and 25 concrete measures. One of the points is to review employers' financial responsibility for long sick leave. The government has now presented a proposal for a change in health, which means that employers have to pay 25% of the sickness allowance for employees who are on sick leave for more than 90 days. At the same time, they receive a reduction of the employer's contribution by the same amount. What effects does the Minister expect of the health exchange?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-273	Madam President, I would like The situation in Sweden is that sick leave has increased by almost 75 per cent since 2009. We in the government must do everything we can to reverse developments. What we have now done is that we have invited the social partners to be part of this dialogue with ideas, ideas and perhaps agreements which mean that they can make a greater contribution to reversing the trend in health rates which is increasing far too much. If the social partners do not come forward here, the government will consider bringing forward legislation. What is at issue here is that we have a little greater mobility in terms of sick leave and the cost of sick leave, that is to say that the employers who are good, do well, have healthy staff and work in a preventive and good way will have a lower cost of sick leave, while the employers who have and for quite a long time have had a high sick leave will have a slightly higher cost.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-275	Madam President, I would like Will the change in health mean that there will be higher costs for municipalities and county councils? There's sick leave at its highest, and they're already in a tight position. What will that mean?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-276	Madam President, I would like Everyone will be winners if we manage to reverse the trend with the high costs of sick leave that we are seeing right now. We have a clear over-representation within municipalities and county councils. It is social security secretary, nurses and teachers who top the medical statistics. There we also have a great need for recruitment in the coming years. Therefore, active work to counter this in an early illness will make everyone a winner.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-279	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. It's been about six months since we made a migration agreement. As always in agreements, it is a rewarding and a taking. There are things that you find easier to think are good while other things lie a little further away. For the Center Party, it was extremely important that the agreement concerned things that would facilitate the entry of new arrivals into the labour market. We heard in an answer here earlier that it is about to extend the YA jobs to new arrivals, and that is very welcome. But there is another part of the agreement where nothing has yet happened. This means that companies that are not covered by collective agreements should also be able to be part of this solution. In this matter, as in so many other matters, it depends on where you are on the political scale when it comes to what you think is good or not. But nothing is happening on this issue. When does the Minister for Labour intend to kick-start this part?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-283	Madam President, I would like As I said in a previous reply, career introductions are a collective form of employment. Now we will also open them to companies that do not have collective agreements. Of course it's not quite simple. This is what the agreement says: YA jobs should also be extended to employers who are not covered by collective agreements. A prerequisite for this is that the conditions for the employee correspond to the level of collective agreements and that the training and supervision to which the employee is entitled are ensured. It should be investigated how and who should ensure this. This is an issue that we are working on within the government. It's not quite simple. It will happen, and we will prepare the question in the Government Office.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-286	Madam President, I would like If you are not in a position of government, this is not a satisfactory answer, but, on the contrary, I see a great deal of concern in it. So far, there have been no talks to begin to probe the terrain around what the other parties in the migration agreement would like to see in the investigation. Therefore, I feel that this is an answer that does not impose. The question is, does it really?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-287	Madam President, I would like The agreement of last autumn contains a wide range of points. We feed them one by one, and we have a dialogue with the parties that have concluded the agreement on how we should work. This point will obviously also be implemented.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-288	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. A week ago the news came that the management of Findus had decided to move production from Bjuv in Skåne to Germany after 70 years. There are 450 people who are losing their jobs. It is Findu's new owner, Nomad Foods, based in the tax haven of the British Virgin Islands, who has made the decision. They bought Findus as late as November last year. On the same Thursday last week Aneby was also affected in northern Småland, where playground manufacturer Hags decided to move its production to Poland. 225 employees lose their job. On Saturday, a manifestation is arranged in Bjuv, a community of 15,000 inhabitants but where 13 000 people have joined a Facebook group to stop the closure of Findus. From the Left Party, our party leader Jonas Sjöstedt participates. The labour movement needs to stand united in the fight against tax evasion and short-term profit interests. I wonder what the government is doing to ensure that jobs stay in Sweden.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-292	Madam President, I would like Jobs stay in Sweden and jobs grow in Sweden. We have a good situation overall. There is strong job growth in Sweden right now. But the question of Findu's closure in Bjuv is, of course, serious. The new owners bought the company as late as November. The company has a very long history. It is a well-managed and profitable company. It is not only the employees who are now affected, but also very many farmers who are suppliers to Findus, not least of peas, that are now affected. This is serious. There has been a very good collaboration with the municipality. The municipality has set up many different initiatives to ensure that there are good conditions for the company. When the new owners took over, they declared that they were a long-term owner. That's why Thursday's news hit a little bit like a flash from the clear sky. I am also very surprised and upset about this. That is why I met representatives of Bjuv's municipality, union and Employment Service as late as Monday to discuss this issue.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-295	Madam President, I would like It is clear to the Left that it is far too cheap to close down and move companies from Sweden, and that is not the way we can actually have it. We need to tighten up the legislation, I think. It will hurt more to close down and move abroad when you just want to increase your profit margin. Other countries have legislation that makes it difficult to move companies, and employees are more compensated when moving. There are also countries where legislation has made it easier for employees to take over factories when companies move their production. Is the government prepared to legislate to make it more difficult for venture capitalists to move profitable jobs abroad?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-298	Madam President, I would like I understand that we want to stop this kind of relocation of a profitable business that has worked well away from a municipality. At the same time, I would like to point out that we in Sweden have had a good experience for many years in facilitating change and protecting the individual rather than the jobs, and that is the direction that the government will continue to take. But I have a great deal of sympathy for the outrage that is now felt in Bjuv and the employees there.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-299	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Labour, which we have talked about before, namely phase 3. I am now told that many work-integrated social enterprises are closing down. I find that very boring. They have helped many who have been on long-term sick leave and who have serious difficulties in entering the labour market. They have been a bridge for many vulnerable people who have had a difficult time and may have been away from the labour market for a long time. Now that the government is abolishing Phase 3 and it is closing down, what is the message? I find it difficult to send a clear message to those who ask me that question. Will everyone in phase 3 have a structured transition to other types of employment and integration into the labour market?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-302	Madam President, I would like Mrs Pethrus' question has two aspects. The first concerns the individuals in phase 3. There are very many, 37,000 around. Each individual will have a transition to other activities. It's not done in a flash, and that's why we're saying we're phasing out phase 3. Each individual must find the paths that lead to work or education for that person. The second aspect concerns employment integration social enterprises. They play an important role, and several of them will be able to accommodate people who are currently in phase 3 for work training. It is a new effort that has not previously been available to people in phase 3 but which we are now opening up to them. Work training is often a good support for getting on to work. The government has also made quite a special effort to stimulate work integration social enterprises. I'll tell you more about that in my next post.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-305	Madam President, I would like I understand that many of these companies are now closing down. I hope that the Government will also look at this with concern and do something about it so that more social enterprises are not shut down, because we will need more. The Christian Democrats believe that it is very important to help young people with disabilities in particular. What is the government's strategy for getting young people with disabilities into work?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-307	Madam President, I would like We need more and growing work integration social enterprises. Therefore, the Government has allocated SEK 60 million to the Swedish Agency for Growth to support both the growth and the relaunch of work integration social enterprises. I and the Minister for Economic Affairs have also taken a joint initiative to investigate the conditions for social enterprises in a broader perspective. This work is now taking place within the Ministry of Industry. For example, when it comes to young people with disabilities, we have opened up opportunities for development employment within Samhall.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-310	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Public Health and Health about mental illness among young people. Among young people in Sweden there has been a slight increase in suicide in recent years. According to Mind, 2,300 youths between the ages of 15 and 24 tried to kill themselves in 2014. 170 of these died.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-313	Madam President, I would like I thank Stefan Nilsson for the issue on an urgent subject in which the state has been involved in various ways for a long time. Unfortunately, efforts have often been directed solely at specialised psychiatry, and some of the preventive work has been forgotten. We are trying to correct this by means of the agreement that the government has reached with SKL. Here, the focus is on early intervention and prevention. In an initiative specifically aimed at young people to combat young people's mental illness, we give SEK 280 million per year to the country's youth clinics. They already serve as a centre for young people who feel bad and want help. Through this initiative, we strengthen youth clinics and make them more focused on helping against mental illness.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-316	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. A group that is having a particularly difficult time is young LGBTQ people. According to the 2010 Youth Board survey, as many as 65 percent of transgender people over 30 years had considered killing themselves.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-319	Madam President, I would like In addition to the general focus on young people suffering from mental illness, there are five focus areas in the agreement that the government has reached with SKL. One of these focus areas is to work with risk groups, and this includes young LGBTQ people. By pointing this out clearly, we know that some of the funds and efforts will go to this group. The Swedish Public Health Agency, together with the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, also has a responsibility.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-321	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Bolund. Last year, 30 000 unaccompanied children and young people came to Sweden, and it is expected that there will be about the same number this year. Once in Sweden, you will be assigned a good man and placed in an HVB home or similar accommodation, depending on your needs. This is a vulnerable group. Unfortunately, I have received a lot of reports from consumer advisors around the country that these young people are becoming more indebted because of different kinds of credit. This may include mobile subscriptions, clothing or regular home equipment loans. Once the consumer guides meet them, it may be too late.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an urgent question. Indebtedness, and above all over-indebtedness, is unfortunately a growing problem which affects many different groups in society. Since no groups are excluded from this problem, we are working broadly on this issue. The government has launched a broad strategy against over-indebtedness, which includes taking preventive measures, such as trying to stop misleading marketing and ensuring that market players behave well. We also need to work with rehabilitation efforts when you're in debt. In terms of prevention, it is important that we have a well-functioning budget and debt counselling. We are working on guidelines for budget and debt counselling in municipalities so that they know about the working methods that work and how they can work with them to guide them. It is also about creating clarity and providing better information in many different languages so that you can absorb the information even if you come from another country. Prevention is very important.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-330	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I know the strategy and rehabilitation, but the important thing here is prevention. I have said before in the speaker's chair that education and information are among the most important things, but the consumer guides do not have the time and the power to meet all these young people. There are projects around the country on county boards and so on, but there are a lot of differences.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-333	Madam President, I would like Just over a year ago, a new, large consumer road traffic management service called Hello consumer was launched. It is an umbrella to which all consumers can turn with their questions. Here you can also get answers in other languages than Swedish. This has relieved local consumer guidance officers of some cases that are easier to answer. On the other hand, they have received more cases that are more complex and require more time. However, it provides an opportunity to devote more time to preventive work, and my focus and that of the government is that municipalities should prioritise that work.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-336	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Social Security. Social well-being is much less closely linked to citizenship than in many other countries. People who are in Sweden even though they are not citizens and even though they have not contributed a single tax crown or even have any connection to Sweden in principle full access to the welfare system. Recently, this has been a subject for debate, both in terms of the high risk of fraud and fraud and whether this scheme is reasonable at all. The last two high-profile news has been on survivor's and parental allowances. My question to the Minister for Social Security is simple: what concrete measures will the government take to stop the waste of tax resources and to combat the pull factor of migration flows that this could constitute?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-340	Madam President, I would like It is important that we have a Sweden that stays together, a Sweden where people contribute through work but also a Sweden where people can feel a basic sense of security. This also applies, of course, to those who flee from war and terror and seek refuge in Sweden and later have permanent residence in our country. The government is very keen that new arrivals who have arrived in Sweden as quickly as possible should receive incentives to enter the labour market. This may be a starting point for looking at parental insurance, for example, which we are now doing. When Linus Bylund talks about cheating and fraud and refers to survivors' support and parental insurance, I do not know what he means. He'll be happy to elaborate on that.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-343	Madam President, I would like I can first say that I was talking about great risks of cheating and fraud. We can have that debate another time. I would like answers to a simple question that can be answered by yes or no. If I dare to look into the future, I do not think I will get a clear answer. The question is: Will the government take action in the near future to clearly distinguish between the welfare rights of people who are citizens of Sweden and those who are not yet or are here temporarily?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-346	Madam President, I would like My answer, Linus Bylund, will be the answer that I just gave. The government is currently taking measures to ensure that new arrivals who have arrived in Sweden as quickly as possible will have the opportunity to enter the Swedish labour market. By doing so, they can contribute to Swedish welfare and to building Sweden strongly. There's the government's focus right now. When they do, they should also have the right to basic security in Sweden. That is our starting point.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-347	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. Yesterday, the Swedish Cancer Society presented a forecast of the development of cancers over the next 25 years. It is a frightening reading that shows that in 25 years' time the number of people affected by cancer will have increased from 60 000 to 100 000 per year. Some of the single most important measures for responding to developments are investments in prevention and ensuring that everyone, regardless of who they are and where they live, has access to good care as soon as possible after a diagnosis.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-351	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that I agree with Lennart Axelsson that this is a very worrying forecast that the Cancer Fund is presenting. However, it is very hopeful that in the report they present, they show that if you do the right things both preventively and when it comes to changing the Swedish healthcare system it is possible to meet the development and get a completely different development with fewer cancer cases and much lower costs. During this term of office, the Government invests a total of SEK 2 billion in a more equal cancer care. It is primarily a question of shortening waiting times and ensuring that waiting times in certain parts of the country which are excessively long are much shorter. We know today that it can distinguish up to three times as long from having a well-founded suspicion of cancer to being treated just because of where you live. That is totally unacceptable.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, I look forward to continued good cooperation on this too many crucial issues. This applies not least to measures to help young people not to be tempted to start smoking. Each year, some 5,200 people die from cancer as a result of smoking. We can change that.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-354	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with that. That is why the government announced further steps to reduce smoking in Swedish society. We know that smoking every year means that about 100 000 people fall ill and 12 000 die in our country, at a cost to society of 30 billion. If we can get fewer children and young people to start smoking, there are huge benefits both for individuals and for society as a whole.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-355	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to put a question to Minister of Public Health Gabriel Wikström. My question is simply this: will it or will it not be prohibited from 20 May this year to indicate nicotine content on snuff boxes?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-357	Madam President, I would like This issue concerns an EU production directive that came yesterday. It is about tobacco and what labelling should be available on various tobacco products. When it comes to taste labelling, we have been clear from the Swedish Government. The question of whether to allow flavour labelling or not on snus packaging must be a matter for the Swedish Parliament to decide on. You can't do that down in Brussels. When it comes to the list of contents, we think it is reasonable not to include a list of ingredients of tobacco products. It can lead you to believe that just because one product contains slightly lower nicotine levels, for example, it would be less dangerous than anyone else. We think that would be misleading.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-360	Madam President, I would like It is quite remarkable that many in the debate on yesterday's decision have put forward the argument that it does not concern the snuff. Now we are told that there is a strong influence on the snuff. A natural follow-up question will be: if nicotine labelling is to be banned on cigarettes, as I understand it is the argument Gabriel Wikström is making, and also being removed for snus, how is it that the government's own tobacco investigation proposes that the declaration of nicotine content on e-cigarettes be made mandatory?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-362	Madam President, I would like What the investigation proposes are suggestions that I received in my hand a little over a month ago. These are proposals that are currently being submitted for consultation. We will see what the consultation round says and what views come in before the government takes a position on exactly how we will proceed with the proposals. The main objective of the government is to reduce smoking in society. It is also there that the government will focus on further treatment.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-363	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Per Bolund. According to a study from the Swedish Commerce Federation, seven out of ten consumers think that issues related to the environment, sustainability and so-called "uncial responsibility" are important when they buy goods today. At the same time, reports from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency show that average private consumption in Sweden is far from environmentally sustainable. This applies not least to the emissions from Swedish consumption that occur in other countries.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-366	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Sonidsson, for the question. It is an issue that engages the government and which also engages a great many Swedes. As Eva Sonidsson is concerned about, a lot of people are really committed, want to reduce their environmental impact and act sustainably as conscious consumers. At the same time, many feel that it is difficult to obtain the information they need in order to act consciously. Here the government is working on a strategy for sustainable consumption that will include many different segments. We are now seeing many changes that are taking place in the consumer field and that are very promising, where consumers not only change what they buy in a more sustainable direction but also change how they consume. For example, they consume more and more online. They also use more of common consumption. For example, they consume together. It is something that can reduce the environmental impact quite significantly. For example, they are in a car pool instead of having their own car. There are many developments that are very promising and that the government would like to support. There we look at the regulations. Above all, we look at how information can be improved for consumers.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-370	Madam President, I would like This is a complex and rather broad and difficult issue. Does the Government see any particular area where he thinks it is more important to move faster to tackle the problem for the future?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-371	Madam President, I would like There are some areas of particular concern in which we know that the environmental impact of consumption is particularly high. They are often summed up with the car, steak and dwelling. It is in the three areas that much of our environmental burden arises. It is about how we transport ourselves, how we live and what our food consumption looks like. In all these areas, the government has a focus and seeks to encourage more sustainable consumption behaviour. It is about making economic incentives that will reduce our environmental burden, but also giving consumers a greater choice to choose the sustainable.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-375	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. The government yesterday presented a proposal to allow employers to co-finance sick pay costs for long-term sick leave when they have been on sick leave for more than 90 days. This is a fairly clear breach of the promises of the Social Democrats, who were out clearly saying in the election movement that they would reduce the cost of sick pay. Now you do exactly the opposite. The criticism of the proposal has come not only from the Center Party but also from strong representatives of the Social Democracy, including Lena Micko, who is a social democrat and a substitute for the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats. She raised the criticism and said that this has been tried before and has not produced any results. My question to the Minister is therefore: what makes the Social Democrats and the government think this is going to produce results this time? And what effects does the Minister see for entrepreneurs who will be affected by the proposal?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-379	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The government yesterday presented a proposal for a health exchange. Since 2009, we have had increased sickness rates by 75 per cent, not least in the public sector. This takes the government very seriously, and we will do exactly everything necessary to reverse the trend – unlike the bourgeois government, which, between 2010 and 2014, sat on its hands while sickness rates increased by 50 percent. It is not a breach of promise that has been committed by the Social Democracy. At the turn of the year 2014/15, we carried out significant reliefs for small and medium-sized enterprises when we introduced high cost protection for these very companies in relation to sick pay. SMEs have been pleased with this. It is a cost-neutral health change that we are now introducing.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-382	Madam President, I would like I share Annika Strandhäll's view that the proposal for cost protection for small and growing companies was good, because it was a center party proposal that the new government later continued with. However, this affects businesses. There are more studies from the time there was a system of co-financing for long-term sick leave that showed that it had no effect. How does Annika Strandhäll think it will affect the companies, who get increased costs and do not dare to hire people with long sick absences?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-385	Madam President, I would like It is like this: this is a cost-neutral proposal. Small businesses have been a starting point when we have developed the proposal. They're protected. Around 0.3% of companies with an employee will be able to suffer from this. In addition, we are protecting the weak groups in the labour market. It becomes strange when Fredrik Christensson compares with something that came ten years ago and is different from this on essential points.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-388	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Integration, or whatever you might call Ylva Johansson, the Minister for Labour. At least now we have someone responsible for the questions. But the question is: where is integration policy? From the Liberals' side, we welcome the efforts on fast track and validation. But we also see that the government is investing only in highly educated people. What happens to the low-skilled new arrivals who have come to Sweden? Around 50 percent of those who have come to Sweden do not have any kind of training that allows them to go into work with fast track or validation. Liberals are clear. We want to invest in start-up jobs with lower pay, low income tax and abolished employers' contributions. This means, in practice, 14 000 to 16 000 for these individuals. That is more than 2.1 million of Swedes already have in income today. We see that it is better to have a job than to have a job for eight years – which is the average – sitting without a job, going unemployed and feeling that you do not participate and are part of Swedish society. What are your bets for the low-skilled?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-392	Madam President, I would like Of those who come to Sweden now, about one third have an upper secondary education, about one third have an upper secondary education or are close to it and about one third have a very low level of education. Among those with a low formal education are those with professional skills that are viable in the Swedish labour market. There are car mechanics, and there are chefs who may not have attended formal education but who still know a profession and who should reasonably work in their profession. However, there are also people who may not have a formal education and who do not have professional experience. For them, it is a big challenge when they come and go into the Swedish labour market. Therefore, the government is investing heavily in combinations of education and work. We are also opening up vocational training for those who have not reached upper secondary level skills. We are looking at education obligations together with parties that have entered into the agreement we have made. We are also looking at modern standby jobs.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-395	Madam President, I would like Sweden faces greater challenges than we have ever done when it comes to integration. But it is not even dared to say that there is an integration policy or a Minister for Integration. I think we need to look a little further and try to accept the tasks at a higher level than just education, vocational training and the like. I am opposed to a system in which we have a Minister for Social Security who says that she wants to legislate if the parties do not agree. But in the labour market, the parties do not agree, and these people are affected.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-397	Madam President, I would like Sweden faces major challenges. I share that view. Many new measures will be required. Sweden also has good conditions and great opportunities. Sweden has a higher employment rate for foreign born than the EU average. The group that is increasing its employment rate fastest in Sweden today are women born abroad. There are also things that go in the right direction in the Swedish labour market. Then you should be careful to introduce system changes that knock away the legs of the Swedish model.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-399	Madam President, I would like On 24 April it is 30 years since a united labour market committee and then a united Swedish parliament led Sweden as the first country in the world to support the ILO Convention 161 on Occupational Health Care. The Convention states that the States that support it are to ensure good occupational health care for all workers in the country. The Convention was ratified in 1986, at which point about 80% of Swedish workers were affiliated to some form of occupational health care. According to the latest forecast, it is now 62%. Now that 30 years have passed since this important convention, which was first ratified by Sweden, my question is: what is the government doing to move towards a situation where we can comply with the convention that we were the first to ratify, namely a functioning, adapted and quality-assured occupational health care system that is available to all workers on equal terms?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-401	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Finn Bengtsson, for an important question! It goes without saying that this is an issue that is now high on the government's agenda. We too have looked with concern at developments where fewer and fewer people have access to occupational health care. If you are to be really careful, it is so that the person who has the best access to occupational health care in the Swedish labour market is a young man who works in the industry. That is not where we have the great ill-health today, that is to say among women in the welfare sector. I hope for a result of the talks we are now having with the parties that more must happen in preventive work and in workplace rehabilitation. We would urge the parties to take a step forward, to conclude agreements and to take greater responsibility. There I hope that this will be part of it.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-404	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. That's exactly what the minister says. Since this is also an issue of equality, it is all the more important that we now, after 30 years, get some exercise. We could say a little self-critically: Why didn't the Alliance do this? That question may be called for. Now, however, it is also a question of the ILO being a UN trade union body for employment and working life, and Sweden has a pretty high tailings when it comes to wanting a seat in the Security Council. Then it is perhaps more dressable to comply with the conventions we have signed than to otherwise lobbe for that kind of placement.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-406	Madam President, I would like It is important to have somewhere in mind that it is not just about getting access to occupational health care. It is also about having an occupational health care of good quality that is multidisciplinary. It can be seen that there are also shortcomings among employers offering occupational health care today, for example in the public sector.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-407	Madam President, I would like I put my question to Prime Minister Gabriel Wikström.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-408	I receive quite a few emails and also calls from women who are now being met with the message: This is something we cannot help you with. We don't know how this is going to be done, we don't know how this is going to be financed and so on. This is a law that many women have been waiting for a very long time. To avoid going to neighbouring countries to get this help is something one has really looked forward to.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-411	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Barbro Westerholm, for raising a very urgent issue! As Mr Westerholm points out, this is something many have been waiting for for years. Thanks to the change of government it was suddenly possible to get a majority in the Swedish parliament for this amendment. I can say that the regulations are in place and that everything is in place from the state side in order to get started, but the county councils are pulling their legs. There are, of course, exceptions. Region Örebro has a work that is underway and has come a long way, but far too many of the other county councils do far too little. From the government's side, we will now be following developments very closely. We will have a close dialogue with the county councils to question why it does not go faster. This could have been in place already on 1 April.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-414	Madam President, I would like Assisted conception for heterosexual and lesbian couples we have had for many years. The methodology and knowledge of how to meet people is there. It is incomprehensible that we are now putting sticks in the hole for this. We have waited 31 years from the first exercise until this law became a reality. I find it unacceptable that we should now have an uncertain waiting for ourselves as a woman.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-416	Madam President, I would like Some county council representatives have also heard that the state should have sent more money when it legislated, but the state did not send money when it made it possible for assisted fertilization for the groups that Barbro Westerholm is talking about, and then you should not have to do it for this either. I don't understand why the county councils are dragging their legs. We are following developments closely, and of course we are going to be on for all women to be able to get this right.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-419	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Ylva Johansson. Not long ago it was announced that the playground manufacturer Hags in Småland Aneby has plans to move to Poland. 200 employees are affected in a municipality with approximately 6,500 inhabitants. The closure affects the small town in my constituency Jönköping hard. The trend of companies considering leaving the country is increasing in these times when they are most needed here at home. What is the government doing to prevent the Swedish business flight to other countries?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-421	Madam President, I would like I understand Sotiris Delis is concerned. It is always serious when there is a business closure and notice in a small town, and it often affects the whole area. It is extremely important that we have a business environment in Sweden that allows companies to grow and grow more. We have better. Companies are growing and growing and hiring more. We have very strong job growth. We have very strong economic growth. We have more vacancies than we have ever had, and the notice level in Sweden is down to a very low level. For Sweden, therefore, overall, it looks very good when it comes to the fact that jobs grow and that the perceptions are very few. However, it is no comfort to those who are affected in Aneby. It is always a serious situation in a locality when a larger company gives notice. Then it is important that we have a well-functioning labour market policy and that the Employment Service is in place.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-424	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This doesn't help the Aneby people. Here in the House, the Government mentioned that she had visited another company and had taken an interest in it. Will the Government show the same interest in this company and find out why Hags from little Aneby intends to move production? This affects 200 people.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-425	Madam President, I would like I haven't visited Findus. I have met representatives of the union, the municipality and the Employment Service in Bjuv. We have a government group, a notice group, within the Government Office, which is always connected when it comes to larger notice. We are prepared to act if necessary. I always make sure that Arbetsförmedlingen has the resources to help individuals move on to a new job. That's what you do. It is better for us to have a good labour market in general at the moment, so it is still a good thing in this respect.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-427	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Ylva Johansson. New arrivals who come to Sweden bring education, experience and knowledge of their luggage. The idea is that there should be an inventory of this when they come to Sweden. Many employers see a potential for the newcomers' knowledge to be used in their activities. School is one such example. However, schools find it difficult to find the people with the necessary educational skills.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-429	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Emilsson, for a very urgent question! It is just as Lena Emilsson says that those who come to Sweden have professional experience and knowledge that we need in Sweden. In some professions there is a pressing need for this particular competence, not least in schools and health care, but also in many other professions. That is why the government has introduced the so-called fast track where we can quickly help people with experience of working such as teachers, doctors, chefs, cutters and a wide range of other professions so that you can get a supplementary education in order to be able to work in their profession in Sweden. We have also given Arbetsförmedlingen a new assignment with early identification of skills for asylum seekers and for new arrivals already in the construction housing. It is a task that the Swedish Public Employment Service has recently started working on.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-431	Madam President, I would like That's a good news. From applying for asylum to obtaining a permanent residence permit, it may be a long time. How, then, are we to make sure that these people's knowledge is used to benefit our society from the time they seek asylum?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-432	Madam President, I would like Several different actions are needed. The Public Employment Service has had a pilot project in place for early skills mapping, which is now learning from which to expand on a much larger scale across the country. It is also about how we can help people to work early, even during the period of asylum. There the bureaucracy has put many sticks in the wheel. The Government has given a commission to the Swedish Tax Agency to investigate how to give so-called coordination numbers to all asylum seekers and also to return with any constitutional proposals in order to ensure that the practical issues are solved.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-434	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. The cost of adopting has more than doubled since the early 2000s. Today, the sum is around $200,000 for a child. In addition to this, there is the cost of parental training and a possible adoption trip. The current adoption grant from Försäkringskassan is SEK 40 000, and the latest increase was made in 2000. Will the Minister promote a review of the adoption allowance so that more people can adopt?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Finnborg, for the question. I have also followed this and I am familiar with the debate and discussion that is taking place around the fact that the cost has increased so greatly and that this means that fewer people are actually able to adopt. I will be perfectly honest and say that this issue is not on my table at the moment. But, of course, on the basis of this Question Time too, I will take it with me and draw further attention to it. Thank you for that!
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-438	Madam President, I would like In 2002, some 1,000 children were adopted. In 2014, the number was 345. The number has thus fallen by two thirds. Perhaps it is not just because you cannot afford it, but there are other regulations on adoption in different countries. But it is important that it should never become a matter of income. I would like to see this looked at.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-440	Madam President, I would like I'll take this with me.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-441	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Social Security about the proposal that 19-year-olds should be able to receive sickness benefits, that is, what was previously called early retirement. This is a proposal that is unworthy of those individuals who are told very early in life that they will never be able to work and support themselves but will be labeled as dependent on benefits forever. It also sends very strange signals. If we are to cope with welfare funding in the future, the focus needs to be on how everyone can contribute as much as possible based on their ability. The focus should not be on closing people out as far as possible from the labour market.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-445	Madam President, I would like This is a response to the criticism that, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office has put forward against the activity compensation. There has been a sharp increase in the number of persons with activity compensation since 2003. The forecast is that around 50,000 young people under the age of 29 will receive activity compensation by 2020. Most of those diagnosed today get this because of mental illness. On the contrary, the ministerial letter that the government has now sent out is about opening up opportunities. We open up opportunities to be able to study with continued activity compensation. On the other hand, there are people with multiple disabilities where it can be seen early that these people are not in a position to enter the labour market. They have been forced to continually reconsider the old system, which has been criticised by the Swedish National Audit Office. That is why the government is now presenting this proposal.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-448	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. So my question concerns the last group. I would like to add another perspective. I wonder how the government actually intends this assessment to be made. It can be about 19-year-olds who may not even be of working age, and then you should make the assessment that this 19-year-old will never be able to work and support himself.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-451	Madam President, I would like Yes, Aron Modig, the government's department letter and the proposal in it are based on reviews of the activity compensation that has been made. Basically, you tell me that there can be no case ever when a 19-year-old in Sweden can have a disability of such a nature that this 19-year-old cannot participate in working life. That is what we are talking about here.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-452	Then I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members for today's Question Time.
i-GdiNTffcPUcVLJnJ69fk7a	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support reservation 2. In the form of government, it is stated that public power should be exercised with respect for the equal value of all men and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. Freedom of expression, freedom of information, freedom of assembly, freedom of demonstration, freedom of association, freedom of religion, protection against the obligation to state where you stand politically, religiously or culturally, the right to physical integrity and freedom of movement, the rule of law, protection against discrimination, the right to combat in the labour market, property protection, universal rights, copyright, freedom to conduct a business, the right to education and research are basically our fundamental rights and freedoms under the form of government. All Swedish citizens have the same basic rights and freedoms, regardless of age, gender or pedigree. Most of the rights and freedoms rules also apply to foreign citizens. At the same time, not all rights and freedoms governed by the government form have the same protection against restrictive legislation. For example, the protection of property rights and freedom to conduct a business is weaker than it is for, for example, freedom of expression, information, meeting, demonstration and association. The right to own is fundamental in a democratic society. Carl Bildt, Bengt Westerberg and Olof Johansson put it so well some year after the fall of communism in Eastern and Central Europe: " There is no country that has abolished private property rights while a functioning democracy has continued to exist. Ownership in itself does not guarantee democracy, but where property rights are wiped out, the conditions for a viable democracy also disappear. Furthermore, individual ownership is an indispensable prerequisite for a functioning market economy. Only states with secure individual property rights have been able to ensure the prosperity of their inhabitants. ..................................................... We Moderates believe, now as at the time, that the protection of the Constitution against restrictions on rights should be equally strong, regardless of which right or right it applies. Even with regard to the rights of the individual, a restriction should only be allowed to serve purposes which are acceptable in a democratic society, and a restriction should never go beyond what is necessary in view of the purpose which has led to it. Nor should a restriction be allowed because of a political or any other view and extend to the point where it constitutes a threat to freedom of opinion. Protection of property rights should also be adapted to developments in society. Today, intellectual property rights are not mentioned in the government's rules on property protection. We Moderates believe that it is important to investigate how the constitutional protection of intellectual property rights should be designed. The protection of rights and freedoms provided for in the second chapter of the government form generally applies to the general, but not between individuals. However, it is not only states but also individuals and organisations that can violate freedoms and rights. According to the European Court of Human Rights, the ECHR is not only about the protection of human rights vis-à-vis states, but also about the responsibility of States Parties to protect individuals from restrictions on rights imposed by other individuals. An example of this is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Söderman Söderman Sweden. It was about a young woman who was secretly filmed in the shower by her stepfather. The European Court of Human Rights held that Sweden had infringed Article 8 of the European Convention on the right to privacy, since the State did not provide either criminal or tort law for the protection of women in the current situation. We Moderates believe that it should be explicitly stated by the form of government that the state also has an obligation to protect individuals from violations of rights and freedoms by other individuals. With regard to the ability of individuals to protect their rights and freedoms under the second chapter of the government form, a case decided by the Supreme Court in 2014 is of great interest. In the judgment, a person was awarded damages after being deprived of his Swedish nationality in violation of Chapter 2. Section 7 of the form of government. This provision is addressed primarily to the legislator and the authorities, but should, according to the Court, be relied on by the individual as a basis for liability for damages to the State. The question of whether and in what way a corresponding possibility of compensation exists in the event of abuse of other government-protected rights and freedoms is not clearly answered. The committee proposes a declaration on the motion for a resolution on damages in the event of violation of constitutionally protected rights and freedoms in the form of government. The government should set up an investigation to analyse the issue of damages in the event of violation of constitutionally protected rights and freedoms in the government form. In cases where the State or a municipality is guilty of an infringement of the ECHR, it has long been discussed whether the individual affected by the infringement is entitled to compensation or not. The committee also proposes a declaration to the government on the motion for a resolution on damages in the event of a breach of the European Convention. The Government should return to the Riksdag with a proposal to regulate the possibility for individual natural and legal persons to receive compensation from the State or a municipality in the event of a breach of the European Convention. The Copenhagen criteria are called the criteria that a state must meet before it can become a member of the European Union. The political criterion includes requirements for stable institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. We have recently seen examples of a lack of respect for freedoms and rights by Member States after their accession to the European Union. We Moderates believe that a review of Member States' respect for human rights and democratic status should be carried out continuously through an independent audit and that there should be possibilities for sanctions in the event of serious infringements.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-469	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the interest in freedom and rights is as great as it is. In this report, I believe that there are a little over 40 different claims that are to be dealt with today. A state where citizens lack fundamental rights and freedoms can really only be called a dictatorship in one way. Defending Swedish popular rule and the ancient freedom of Swedes against those who want to destroy it is a fundamental principle of Swedish democracy. Madam President, I would like In the nation of democracy and popular rule, there are rules and obligations. The main challenge of popular governance is to strike a balance between free rights on the one hand and rules, laws and obligations on the other. The better the balance we can achieve between these values, the stronger our democracy will be. Of course, the area of freedom and rights covers a wide range of subjects and political issues, high and low, important and less important. The issues that are now to be debated range from strengthened support for ownership and prayer eutrope to a third sex and a ban on veils in public spaces. In total, this report deals with some forty different proposals, and I will soon come to some of them. Before doing so, I would like to say that we have several reservations in the report. However, for time to come, I only ask for reservation 3 on the withdrawal of citizenship and reservation 8 on the prohibition of veils in public places. Having said that, Madam President, I would now like to spend the rest of my time here in the speaker's chair talking about some of the proposals that the Swedish Democrats today support. I would like to start with Decision No 3, which concerns the withdrawal of citizenship. The Swedish Democrats want Swedish citizenship to be given to those who really deserve it, to those who strive for it, strive to enter society and become part of it, strive to learn our language, strive to learn about our knowledge, our customs and our social codes. In particular, people who come to Sweden and want to become Swedish citizens should show respect and acceptance for our rights and freedoms, as well as for our rules and obligations. When a person who has come to Sweden from another country receives Swedish citizenship, it should also be seen as a receipt and proof that he or she has become a part of Sweden and our community. In this way, Madam President, we are strengthening Swedish citizenship and ensuring that it has the importance it so well deserves. While the Swedish Democrats want to strengthen the importance of citizenship, we also want to make it possible to withdraw citizenship under certain conditions. First of all, we believe that if a person has become a Swedish citizen or received a residence permit on false grounds, for example through threats, bribes or blackmails or in other dishonest ways, the citizenship or residence permit must be immediately withdrawn, and the person can be expelled from the country. Secondly, it should be possible to abolish the Swedish nationality of dual-nationals travelling abroad in order to have links with terrorist networks or similar. It should also be possible to suspend the citizenship of former foreign nationals with Swedish citizenship who travel on such journeys, even if the person becomes stateless. Thirdly, we believe that the person who at birth had a citizenship other than Swedish should be able to be deprived of his or her citizenship if he or she has engaged in terrorist crimes or other serious crime or is deemed to have stronger loyalties to foreign power than to Sweden. Madam President, I would like Today, there are really no rules that make any major demands at all on those to be granted Swedish citizenship in the direction that the Swedish Democrats want to see. The requirements mentioned in Act 2001:82 on Swedish citizenship are too unclear and in no way absolute. Among other things, the applicant must prove his or her identity and have had and can be expected to have an honest way of life. If the legislators and the authorities had intended to ensure that these perfectly reasonable demands had been met, many of the problems we see today with exclusion, segregation and crime might have been considerably less. That one can become a Swedish citizen even though one could not prove one's identity and despite documented crime, most would probably think only possible in Ankeborg. But the other parties in the Riksdag seem to think it's a good idea to have this order. We believe that the law on Swedish citizenship needs to be tightened up and made clearer. The requirements must be absolute, and if a person who is granted citizenship is guilty of a terrorist offence or other serious crime, that person must be able to be deprived of his or her nationality. So this is what the Swedish Democrats think. Let me now quote a little from the report, Madam President, so that it is clear what other parties in this House think: Nor is the committee prepared to propose any rules on the withdrawal of a Swedish citizenship because someone has committed crimes of various kinds. In short, Madam President, you are not prepared to do anything. Madam President, I would like Today, the Swedish Democrats are also proposing a ban on veiling in public spaces. We believe that in all publicly organized activities it should be a matter of course to resist strong political or religious pressure. The veil is a symbol of both a religious and a strong political message, the meaning of which goes against Western values of equal value for men and women. The purpose of the veil is to cover girls and women so as not to arouse the lusts of men. This reflects an approach that both objectifies all women and views men as primitive beings who cannot control their sexuality. As far as I am concerned, there can be no doubt whatsoever. The religiously motivated public veil is a desert walk of civilization. In our opinion, when this inhumane decree is imposed not only on adult women or on Swedish society as a whole, but also on small girls, it means nothing more than that the sexualised objectification is applied already to very young children. Such a system is unprecedented and must be condemned. Against this background, we want children under the age of 15 to be banned from wearing a veil, both at school and in other public activities. In this part too, the other parties here in Parliament, contrary to the Swedish Democrats, believe that these medieval religious oppression symbols are compatible with democracy, freedom and justice. Finally, Madam President, I would like to mention something about why we object to the introduction of the possibility of compensation in the event of a breach of the European Convention. The Swedish Democrats are not in principle opposed to individuals or legal persons being able to have extended possibilities for damages if they have their rights and freedoms violated. However, we believe that such special regulation should be based on rights as defined in Chapter 2. the form of government, since, unlike the European Convention, the form of government is under the direct control of the Parliament and can be adapted, if necessary, to the will of the people.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-488	Madam President, I would like Jonas Millard's speech raises many questions and concerns about the attitude of the Swedish Democrats towards fundamental rights and freedoms – rights and freedoms that we have been working for a long time to achieve in this country to extend to as many as possible and to protect groups in society who are in need of the state's care and protection against abuse from others and from the state. It will be rather strange for me not to hear a word in Jonas Millard's speech on reservation 6 on discrimination, where the Swedish Democrats propose that the protection of discrimination in the Swedish constitution should disappear. It is a rather remarkable approach to think that society's most vulnerable groups should not deserve the protection of the state. It's really weird. Then there is the question of freedom of religion, where the Swedish democrats, especially Muslims, are healthily attacking themselves on a rather historyless basis, at least when it comes to the issue of veils. In fact, my grandmother had quite a lot of veils. In Catholicism, for example, representatives of various types of monasteries, especially women, that is, nuns, often wear veils. Should we ban it too, or is it just one group, namely those who happen to be Muslims, that we should not accept wearing veils? It's historyless, and it's stupid!
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-493	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with the legislation on discrimination. It was fortunate that I had the chance to mention a few words about this. It is basically about us thinking that it is a bad order with a list of different characteristics where it is said that based on this and this you can be discriminated against. The risk of this is that you actually exclude more people than you include. We want to see general legislation that can also be discriminated against on other grounds. But starting with a list where we should in some way index which criteria should be met before you should have any chance of being able to get, for example, compensation for being discriminated against is not a good legislation. In this way, the risk of more people falling between them increases, and so one could rather see that we actually want to tighten up the regulatory framework, which I think is regrettable that Jonas Gunnarsson does not want to. When it comes to carrying the veil, I can think that there is a problem today in society, although Jonas Gunnarsson today just as before chooses to turn a blind eye to it. You continue to put your head in the sand and do not see that there are very many people in society who are subjected to honour oppression, honour problems and honour violence and may also be forced on this garment. Of course, it does not just include a certain religious group. We believe that no one should be subjected to any pressure of honor at all. If you're an adult, that's another thing, but as a child, you shouldn't be exposed to this. I think, of course, that this should also apply in adulthood, but one should be able to have the right to avoid this absolutely according to the legislation until the age of 15.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-499	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Swedish Democrats do not think that children and young people should be included in freedom of religion. It's good to hear it from Jonas Millard. That'll be a lot of clarification. Now it is not the legislation on discrimination that we are discussing or even the legislation on hate crime, but it is a protection that exists in the form of government. Could it not be that there are groups that have been subject to oppression for quite some time and deserve special protection? For example, we can take women. We know that women in this country have been exposed to inequality and oppression solely because of their gender. Should we not then mention specifically and specifically that such repression is unacceptable? We can take the group of LGBT people, who for a long time have been discriminated against and stigmatised by society and the state itself. In my opinion, the state then has a responsibility to restore the dignity of this group and also to assume a special responsibility for preventing such discrimination. That's why you put protection in the form of government. What is so terrible, Jonas Millard, about ensuring that the groups that have been oppressed are given special protection? Could it be that it is you, Jonas Millard, who wants to continue oppressing these groups?
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-504	Madam President, I would like Unlike Jonas Gunnarsson, I do not think that any oppression should be allowed at all. He seems to think that you should fulfill certain qualities, and if you do not meet those qualities, then you cannot be considered to have been oppressed either. It's a system that I think is the wrong way to go. Instead, I think you should have a system where you don't allow oppression of anyone. I also regret, Madam President, that Jonas Gunnarsson is keen to allow girls as young as 15 years old to be imposed religious symbols of power which are absolutely not part of the 21st century but are something historically obsolete that we should have scrapped a long time ago. The Swedish Democrats stand up for the equal value of all people. We also stand up for the European Convention. We think it is important to point out shortcomings and shortcomings in society, and we do so in this report, too, when we take a clear stand on discrimination in particular and think that we should be able to include more groups as well. It is wrong to do what Jonas Gunnarsson and several in here want to do. It is wrong when you just want to include certain groups and exclude the more.
i-X9ii6YKTSPMa2uL6pT8e93	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU15 Freedoms and Rights, which deals with some forty demands for exercise from the general period of exercise last autumn and last autumn. This gives extra reason to recall many of the good values that already exist in our form of government. It says, for example, that public power should be exercised with respect for the equal value of all people and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. It also states that the public should work to ensure that all people are able to achieve participation and equality in society and that children's rights are safeguarded. The general public shall combat discrimination against people on grounds of sex, colour, national or ethnic origin, linguistic or religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation, age or other circumstances relating to the individual as a person. We can also read that the public should promote sustainable development that leads to a good environment for present and future generations and that the public should promote the guiding principles of democracy in all areas of society, as well as safeguarding the private and family life of the individual. In addition to the form of government, Sweden is also bound by international commitments, the European Convention and the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. These are central, and much of this has been fought for generations to get there. The committee proposes two announcements. The first concerns the possibility of compensation being awarded by the State or the municipality in the event of a breach of the ECHR. That's what I'm behind. The second concerns an investigation, and I do not think that is really necessary. I choose for time winning not to insist on that reservation. Otherwise, the majority in the committee rejects the other requests for motion, and I also support this.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-516	Madam President, I would like As has been said here, we are discussing the report on rights and freedoms, which is based on motions from the general period of exercise during the previous Parliamentary Session and this. These are extremely important issues, and we are, as has been said before, broadly in agreement. Over the last 100 years we have seen great success in Sweden. We have made great progress in this area, and the legislation generally makes no distinction between people based on sex, sexual orientation, ethnic background, religion and so on. At the same time, we can see that the differences in living conditions are great and that the actual possibilities and freedoms differ, that is to say, to have real access to all their rights and freedoms. Women still have lower wages than men. People with foreign background are excluded from the labour market despite education and good qualifications. They may not even be called for an interview, although they have good qualifications for a job. Women and men are subjected to violence because of skin colour or sexual orientation. Men's violence against women is a major social problem, and the threat of violence is really something that limits women's lives. Religious buildings are exposed to vandalism and arson, and refugee camps as well. Despite the fact that the laws on the whole are okay, there are still problems in securing all people their rights and freedoms. Just like I said, the legislation is fine. In many other countries there would probably be many more issues to discuss in such a report. There would be many more questions about women's rights, LGBT people's rights and religious rights. The Left Party has two reservations in this report. Even though we think the situation is okay, it can be done a little more. One reservation concerns the protection of transgender people, who are a vulnerable group. We also want transgender people to be protected in the Constitution. The government should therefore come back with a proposal to add gender identity and expression to Chapter 2. Section 12, the form of government. The second reservation is that we want an investigation to be set up to review the possibility of introducing a third legal sex that is thus legally equivalent to women and men. For people who feel that they are both male and female or that neither or for people who feel that gender is different, it is important not to have to be defined in a way that does not correspond to how they define themselves. A third sex already exists in several countries, such as Australia, South Africa and Germany. The Left Party believes that the legislation in Sweden needs to be reviewed. The reservations are therefore about strengthening the rights and freedoms of vulnerable persons. As Jonas Gunnarsson and several others have said, we are in large parts in agreement, apart from the Swedish Democrats who rather want to restrict the rights of people. Prayer calls shall be prohibited. Girls under 15 are not allowed to wear a veil. Minorities' cultural and community life should not be promoted, except for the five national minorities p. Women's right to abortion should be limited. The latest is not said exactly, but it is the effect of the Swedish Democrats' proposal on freedom of conscience. Where I live, there's a midwife at the health center. If the midwife does not feel able to do the work in the ministry, no one else can do the job. There is no obligation to train as a midwife, but if one does, patients must actually be able to get the help, care and treatment they need. I therefore support Amendment No 7.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-528	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 14. When a country applies to become a member of the European Union, it is allowed to go through a rigorous process of negotiations to ensure that it meets a wide range of requirements. Some of these are called the Copenhagen criteria, which you have also heard here before. It must be a democracy, respect human rights, have a functioning rule of law and protect national minorities. One of the human rights was introduced at the suggestion of a party colleague, Hadar Cars, in the 9th century. The process isn't perfect, but it's good. Most of the bad things that have existed in the countries since before are cleared away so that they have a common base to stand on in the European Union. It should be a common respect for human rights and a lot of other criteria. Once the country has entered the EU, when it has been in the queue and has finally been admitted, much of the process disappears. The country can start to behave badly without any consequences. We have seen that some of the eastern countries that have come in might not have been allowed to do so if they had not been able to ensure that they would live up to the Copenhagen criteria. But once the countries have come in and it has turned out that they do not live up to the Copenhagen criteria, they depart from what they have previously undertaken, such as Hungary and other Member States, it has not had any consequences. The European Commission has put forward proposals to introduce a right mechanism to remedy this, but it is a very toothless proposal that is being put forward. In particular, there is a lack of means of sanction. If we conclude that these EU countries are in breach of the criteria, we cannot do so much more than say ajabaja. We in the Liberals think it should be much tougher. There must be a regularity, including annual reports on all Member States. They shall be examined on the basis of their respect for the fundamental values of the Union. We also think that there should be regular thematic evaluations looking at how each right is respected within the Union. We also believe that the European Commission should be able to draw countries that do not comply with the rules before the European Court of Justice. We also believe that there should be severe sanctions, such as freezing all or part of EU aid. Some of these countries receive a lot of EU money. Furthermore, it shall be possible to suspend voting rights in the Council. There is a need for much tougher monitoring of the rights that countries have promised to observe when they once joined the Union.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-536	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee is a fantastic committee. This morning we have had to deal with the finest thing that a Member of Parliament can do, namely to examine with undominance complaints against the government's various ministers according to the constitution and practice. But what we are going to debate today, namely various proposals dealing with human rights and freedoms, is no less bad indeed. What is interesting and important is that there is such a great deal of consensus. When we come up with various proposals, it should also be said that in Swedish politics in our country there is a great consensus that human rights and freedoms apply to all of us. Through various motions – this is a motion report – we are trying to evict further unless this or this issue is also to be guarded as a human right. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I agree with all my reservations, but in order to gain time, I only ask for one of them, namely reservation 10. Among the proposals put forward by the Christian Democrats, for example, is the issue of freedom of conscience. It sounds like something new and dramatic. It's not that dramatic. Since 1809 Sweden has actually had freedom of conscience in the Constitution. Then it was said that the king owns no one's conscience force or force the sound. Since Sweden joined the EU, the European Convention has been implemented in Swedish law, which also mentions freedom of conscience. It is of great importance in principle. Further has happened. On 7 October 2010, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe discussed a motion by a Swedish Member of Parliament. The first paragraph of the resolution adopted at that time states that no person, hospital or institution shall be obliged to perform or contribute to abortion, euthanasia or any act which may cause death to a human fetus or embryo. Furthermore, the resolution states that no discrimination should be imposed which refuses to contribute to any of this. This is something that the Christian Democrats want to highlight, but not as a legal requirement. We believe that it could be better resolved at the local level, in hospitals, as has happened for decades since the beginning of the 1970s and hopefully can continue to happen. But conscience is important. We cannot afford people who are not guided by their conscience. Another point that the Christian Democrats want to highlight is the right to life. It also sounds very dramatic, but the fact is that the right to life is the most fundamental human right on which all other human rights are based. The UN Convention on Human Rights states that a person has the right to life, freedom and personal security. It should therefore be for the general public to work positively to ensure that this right is protected, promoted and, as far as possible, implemented. In my view and in the view of the Christian Democrats, this fundamental human right should be included in Sweden's constitution. You could make an addition to 1 chapter. Section 2 the form of government. Nevertheless, it is indirectly through the UN Convention, yes, but it could well be found in our constitution. Today, on the issue of human rights and freedoms, we are talking about values at all. That's what it's all about. It's about ethics. Ethics is the game of life. How do we deal with each other? How do we treat each other? There's a call in there that would be very important. As long as I've been a Member of Parliament – I was first elected in 1991 – I've been trying to wake up this public conversation, according to the Norwegian model. In Norway there was a value commission that tried and also managed to get an ethical discussion throughout Norway, which led to progress. There are some examples that we in Sweden have also managed to get a conversation. A value commission is what the Christian Democrats are proposing. After the Norwegian model, we could sit down and discuss what basic values there are. It can then be said that Sweden already has the Constitutional Committee. That's what we do. What if we had to do it in an investigation? What if we had to associate experts with us, people from different sectors of society, and say even more clearly than today: these are the values we want to pass on to the next generation? There is already much, for example, in the curriculum, but this would apply to everyone in our society together. I think it would also be of value to those who come from another context and another value base to participate in, hear and receive. These were some proposals that the Christian Democrats submit to the Constitutional Committee for a further report.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-549	Madam President, I would like When, on 22 March, in the Constitutional Committee, we adjusted the matter of motions on rights and freedoms, I noted that I was the only member of the KU who was satisfied with the report. All the others had reservations. That made me last on the list of speakers today. As has emerged from the debate, we have proposed two announcements in various majorities of the KU. Both notices concern damages issues. One concerns infringements of the ECHR. The second concerns violations of constitutionally protected freedoms and rights in our form of government. In the first case, we want the government to come up with proposals for settlement of damages. In the second case, we want the government to set up an investigation. The party with clearly the most reservations about the issues of freedom and rights is the Swedish Democrats. Six reservations are twice as many as any other party has. I see this and the content of the Swedish democratic movements as a clear expression that the Swedish democrats want to restrict people's rights and freedoms in our country. For my part, I would like to make it clear that our country is developing best if we give our citizens freedom and rights as far as possible without harming other citizens. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-554	Madam President, I would like My colleague, Jonas Millard, has already set out our other positions in this report. I wanted to confine myself mainly to the issue of freedom of conscience, since I myself have signed up to the motion contained in the report. In recent years, the issue of freedom of conscience for health professionals has been raised and debated in Sweden, not least in connection with the case of Ellinor Grimmark, a midwife. In Sweden, healthcare professionals do not have a statutory right to freedom of conscience when it comes to contributing to abortion and euthanasia in the event of an accident. On the other hand, most of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe have made provision for the right to freedom of conscience of health workers. In our neighbouring country, Norway, for example, freedom of conscience for health workers is neither new nor strange. Since 1978, it has been written in the law that health care establishments should take into account health professionals who, for reasons of conscience, do not wish to perform or assist in abortions or similar procedures. As has been mentioned in debates on freedom of conscience, the Council of Europe has adopted a resolution to protect the right to freedom of conscience of health workers. This resolution means that no person, hospital or institution should be forced, held responsible for or in any way discriminated against for not wanting to carry out or contribute to abortion, euthanasia or any other act that could cause death to a human fetus or embryo. At the same time, which is also important, the resolution points out that, if a legal right to freedom of conscience is to be introduced, there must also be provision to ensure that a woman who wishes to end a pregnancy on a legal basis can also have an abortion carried out. I find it regrettable that Sweden should be one of the few countries that refuse to accept this resolution, despite the fact that most other Member States have done so. This has had consequences in Sweden, including in the case of Ellinor Grimmark. She had been promised a position at the Högland Hospital in Eksjö, but when one learned that she did not want to participate in abortions for reasons of conscience, her position was withdrawn. Shortly thereafter she also lost a substitute for her at the women's clinic in Värnamo. This for the same reason – that she does not want to contribute to abortions. The case has been in court in several instances. It has now been handed over to the Labour Court after refusal in the district court. We believe that a midwife or doctor who has trained to primarily save lives should not be denied jobs because of conscientious objection to participation in abortions. This does not mean that we want a general order in which, for reasons of conscience, we should be able to refuse any job. These are particularly difficult ethical issues. We must also bear in mind that in Sweden it is possible to have an abortion up to week 22 while there are examples of premature births that have been in the borderland between weeks 21 and 22 and have survived. We have heard the testimony of midwives who have seen the fetus live after the abortion and have left them to die in a round bowl or other unworthy. Are we really going to force health professionals to do this, or are we going to be able to make some exceptions? The right to freedom of conscience is enshrined in the UN Declaration on Human Rights and the European Convention, which expressly states that: ..................................................... It has been difficult in the past to know how far this freedom of conscience should be interpreted. However, there is now a Council of Europe resolution limiting this to abortion and euthanasia. There, too, it is clear that the woman's right to an abortion must be satisfied. Nevertheless, I am glad that it is on the Constitutional Committee. The report has stated that the issues raised in this motion concerning freedom of conscience are of great importance in principle. We must bear in mind that abortion and euthanasia lead to very difficult conflict situations with regard to ethical dilemmas. We can remember that in Sweden, for example, we have weapons-free service precisely in view of the ethical difficulty of extinguishing a life. Some people just can't do it. Now we do not have active euthanasia in Sweden. We can only imagine the difficult situations faced by health workers. I find it regrettable that only the Swedish Democrats clearly defend that the right to freedom of conscience should be protected in Swedish legislation. I am pleased that the Christian Democrats also think it is an important issue and in different ways raise it, but I still find it regrettable that they think it is sufficient that it should be resolved in every workplace. I don't think that's enough. I believe that the Ellinor case is a clear example of the fact that it is not enough. That is why I would like to support reservation 4.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-568	Madam President, I would like It's a little tricky. First of all, Julia Kronlid refers to an ongoing case. This in itself is a little strange: that we should discuss a case that is going on. I think we should avoid that. That's why this reservation gets a little weird. We do not yet know where this case goes and how this person will run the case, perhaps even up to the Strasbourg Court. If it ends up in the Strasbourg Court, we will have an interpretation of the constitutionally protected right that exists because we have incorporated the European Convention into our constitution. I'll say something about freedom of conscience in general. Yes, it is an important fundamental human right to say no to things that go completely contrary to one's moral and ethical attitude. There are good examples of when it is applied and works. One actually applies to midwives. We're not forcing anyone to be a midwife. That's great – freedom of conscience. You don't have to be a midwife. So you don't have to perform abortions. We have weapons-free service. Yeah, you had a religion, for example, that said you couldn't take a weapon in your hand, you didn't have to do military service when it was active-- it's still possible to activate. There are many such examples. We do not force anyone who does not want to kill animals to become butchers — freedom of conscience. It's the same thing here. We're not forcing anyone to perform an abortion that doesn't want to. But if you choose a profession where this is actually part of the profession, you have to accept it.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-571	Madam President, I would like I mention the example of Ellinor Grimmark because it shows that she would have got the job if there had been such a statutory right. Now she didn't get the job because of this, and then it goes on. We'll have to wait and see how it comes out, but I think it shows that there may be a need for a law that makes this clearer. Now it's hard to understand. It is now to be interpreted on the basis of the resolution in the Council of Europe. It becomes clearer if it is inscribed in Swedish legislation. Are you supposed to be a midwife anyway? Yes, I still think that the main task of midwives is to protect life. There are very many tasks that are not to perform an abortion. They could make an excellent effort without participating in it. There is another motion in another committee in which we actually propose that the abortion part should be a supplementary education, so that one can choose whether or not to be legitimised in order to carry out abortions. That's also a way to go. But when we have the order that is now, that midwives are trained for both, we think we should be able to make exceptions. We see this as two rights. One right is the right to have an abortion performed. The second right is the right to freedom of conscience. We want to make a compromise so that we can meet both rights, because it is not so simple that it has to be one or the other, I think.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-574	Madam President, I would like The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has expressed this position of principle. It does not say anything about the very case to which Julia Kronlid refers. The European Committee on Social Rights, another part of the Council of Europe, has said that it is reasonable to have such demands as we have in Sweden. In fact, the Council of Europe as a whole has not set its foot around the Swedish situation. It will be interesting, if this comes to the Strasbourg Court, to have a more clear interpretation of what applies in this case, but we are not there yet. Let's say that a woman goes to a midwife's office and has questions and concerns about her pregnancy that may mean that she will land in that she wants to have an abortion. Then she must be able to get the right advice. Then she must be able to dare ask the questions required. Then she must know that the answers she receives are impartial and based on medical knowledge and not on a person's fundamental opposition to abortions.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-577	Madam President, I would like The proposal we have concerns the actual execution of abortion or euthanasia. We think these are ethically difficult issues. It's life or death for people. There we should be able to make an exception for people who have conscientious objection. It is not a question of whether or not to disclose information; it is a question of the procedure itself. Then I find it a little regrettable that Jonas Gunnarsson has very high tails and criticises the Swedish Democrats for wanting to restrict different types of rights. That's not what we want. Rather, we want to broaden it. At the same time, Jonas Gunnarsson cannot at all envisage introducing a resolution from the Council of Europe and something that is also contained in the European Convention, namely the right to freedom of conscience. I find that regrettable. I think maybe you should think about how you see human rights yourself before you accuse others.
i-BTAUP77CfyS434j1EreoGu	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I support reservation 2. I would like to focus on the motion by the members of the Alliance in the Committee on Economic Affairs on the processing times of public authorities. An ambitious policy for entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and innovation is a prerequisite for creating more jobs. It is jobs that, in turn, provide tax revenues that finance, for example, our common school, health care and long-term care. During the alliance government, the company's regulatory burden was reduced by SEK 7 billion, including through the abolition of audit obligations and simplified accounting rules. It will be quick and easy to start a business in Sweden. Many companies still feel that the regulations are complicated and that a lot of time is spent on administration and processing times. It can be both a competitiveness problem and a threshold that prevents companies from starting or growing. It is often at local and regional level that companies face obstacles in the form of long processing times and high fees, etc. Issues related to business start-ups and investments in new facilities and permits in the form of building permits and environmental permits are dealt with and decided in many cases locally. The OECD has pointed out that Sweden also has a weak link between the national regulatory simplification work and the work carried out at municipal and regional level. According to an Skop survey from 2012, just over one in four entrepreneurs in the last year had had contact with their municipality to obtain a permit or approval on any issue. The Industry Board has found that there are major deviations in the way the regulations are applied at local level. H laying time one for a building permit or a serving permit may vary from three to twelve weeks, and for the same type of permit the fee may be 14 times higher in the most expensive municipality compared to the cheapest. In a study of the processing times in environmental matters, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has also shown that there are cases that take up to seven years to decide. The report notes that it takes an average of 3.7 – 4.4 years to obtain an environmental permit in Sweden. The OECD has criticised Sweden for the fact that the processing times in environmental cases are very long compared to other countries. The fact that companies are forced to delay investment in new technologies and activities due to excessive processing times is negative for growth but can also be negative for the environment. Entrepreneurs also argue that there are differences in processing times between small and large companies. They cite, for example, the fact that there are small companies that have to wait up to nine months to obtain a permit, while large companies can sometimes have it in ten days. The ability to quickly and smoothly employ qualified employees is central to many companies. According to Entrepreneurs, 25% of small businesses want to hire, and with faster management more jobs can be created. For those who have received their health care training in another EU country, it may take a maximum of three months from the submission of a complete application until you receive your Swedish professional ID. The Centre for Justice has reviewed the handling of professional IDs in 2013. In 143 of the 452 cases, the National Board of Health and Welfare violated the law regarding the duration of proceedings. This represents as much as 32% of cases. Some municipalities are trying to make it easier for companies by introducing so-called service guarantees which specify the maximum time it may take before companies are given a decision after they have submitted a complete application. Unfortunately, only 17% of the entrepreneurs in Skop's survey indicated that there are service guarantees that indicate the maximum time for handling in their own municipality. The Riksdag has previously decided that processing times for planning and building matters that do not require building permits but only one notification should be introduced. The Parliament also issued an announcement to the government to link incentives or sanctions against municipalities that do not stay within the new processing periods. There is a great need to work with processing times at several levels. The Alliance believes that all authorities should set clear deadlines for processing times to contribute to a better business environment and thus competitive companies in the local, national and global markets.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-598	Mr President, I would like to As we heard in the previous speech, order is important and urgent, not least among our public officials and among our politicians. That is why I find it rather remarkable that the Moderates have not been prepared to stand up for our motions on and the reservation that we verige democrats have in the report to re-establish official and official responsibilities. For it is not only officials but also we politicians who need to be examined at regular intervals – also officials in both state administration and out in our municipalities. The question then arises as to how it really is possible to demand legal responsibility from officials and, not least, from us politicians. Parliament's work has changed in several respects in recent years. From having engaged in detailed management in many areas, the Riksdag is now working more on setting financial, legal and political frameworks, after which most of the implementation is delegated to perhaps primarily the government. However, in order to ensure that this delegation functions properly, i.e. that the government remains within the limits and intentions set, it is necessary that the Riksdag and other relevant bodies have effective means of control and accountability. Here, some steps have been taken along the way, not least in terms of financial follow-up, through, for example, the Swedish Parliament's authority Riksrevisionen. But when it comes to reviewing law and politics, we continue to work on basically the same tools as before. Until the mid-1970s, errors and omissions in the service could lead to those responsible being convicted of misconduct. The penalty scale ranged from fine all the way to prison. In addition, there was the possibility of shutting off inappropriate officials from further work or even dismissing them. Tax funds should, of course, be handled with the utmost care. It is unacceptable that citizens should be forced to continue providing for officials who have abused their responsibilities. As far as we politicians are concerned, there is certainly the political responsibility that is ultimately demanded in the context of general elections every four years. In between, however, much water runs under the bridges, and it is not always clear how adequate legal responsibility is to be demanded. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which we ourselves are a part, has the opportunity, in addition to issuing more or less critical opinions which do not require the Supreme Court to bring an action. But as you know, this tool is not used in practice, and the last time a minister was charged was in the middle of the 19th century. The Swedish Democrats want to strengthen control in all these disadvantaged areas. We would therefore like to extend the possibility of demanding liability in cases where the person exercising or having exercised delegated power does not adhere to or within the specified limits and intentions given by our highest decision-making assemblies or has otherwise infringed what is reasonable to expect of anyone in the present position of office. A first measure, of course, is to re-establish modernized and effective official responsibility, with, of course, the usual limitation period, so that, for example, even departed ministers can be held responsible for obvious incompetence in their previous duties regarding, for example, inadequate preparation of government matters. High political mandates are not something that should be either given or taken too long and faithful service, but one accepts to assume this role and the associated well-applied remuneration, it should be because one possesses such competence in the field in question that one is also prepared to assume a certain responsibility, or risk, for the results. For these purposes, the Swedish Democrats, for example, want to bring the Constitutional Committee closer to the judiciary and give the committee more tools to work, assisted by the Parliamentary Ombudsman, through law enforcement bodies. A court could then examine and impose sanctions for breaches of official responsibility, in addition to what is already possible for other serious violations of official duty and, as the JO can already be tried at the State Board of Responsibilities with regard to particularly high-ranking officials. Similarly, responsible politicians and officials at municipal level should also be able to be held accountable for their actions and decisions to a greater extent than at present, in addition to the relatively limited rules of the Criminal Code. Our second reservation in the report relates to interpretation in the case of contacts with authorities. According to the Administrative Act, an authority when dealing with someone who does not master Swedish or who is seriously hearing or speech impaired should, if necessary, use an interpreter. This means that people with shortcomings in the Swedish language may require a language interpreter in all kinds of contacts with authorities. The cost is financed by public funds and, in other words, it is tax-financed. The government should work to abolish, with certain exceptions, the right to tax-funded interpreters or other forms of written language translations in everyday contact with authorities. Communication and information in Swedish and English, which a clear majority of civil servants have mastered, should be a sufficient level of service for Swedish authorities in their everyday contacts with citizens. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 4 in the KU 17 report.
i-QSr5T6utrUh4upWkbsBYFt	Mr President, I would like to Our report from the Constitutional Committee on Public Administration deals with 50 motions from the general period of exercise, both in 2014 and 2015. One of the motions is about measures to shorten the processing times of public authorities. It's a motion I've been involved in. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that all motion requests should be rejected by the Riksdag. For the Center Party, I have reserved for the Parliament to approve two motions. One is our party movement to increase access to public services throughout the country through the creation of service offices. The second is an alliance motion for all authorities to set clear deadlines for their processing times. It is therefore the same purpose as in my individual motion on shorter processing times by public authorities. Here I would like to highlight in particular the fact that long processing times in permit cases make many companies reluctant even to make investments or even refrain from doing so. It is, of course, important that permits are applied for and that applications are properly examined. We want proper monitoring of environmental matters, among other things, where the processing time often becomes unnecessarily long due to an extended consultation procedure within the authorities. Rural and rural services, not only in small towns, have long deteriorated for residents. We in the Center Party want to see a development in which the municipalities cooperate with the state administration in order to keep the Social Insurance Agency, the Employment Service and the police in more locations. It should also be possible to work together in the area of health care between county councils and municipalities so that it can remain in more locations. This service can take the form of service offices where there is also access to officials who can help with contacts with other authorities and who can also help with digital services in general. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservations 2 and 3 in this report.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-611	Mr President, I would like to In the KU17 report, the KU takes a position on a number of motions concerning public administration. We have heard the previous speakers highlight certain parts of the report which they find particularly interesting and in which they have reserved themselves. I myself intended to touch on certain parts of the report which I find particularly interesting to raise in this House. In a number of motions concerning government and municipal service offices, announcements have been requested to review how people's access to public services can increase throughout the country, including through the creation of local service offices in all municipalities in the country. Several motions have been tabled in the same spirit, and we have heard the previous speaker say a little about this. The purpose of the service offices is to help citizens more easily with municipal matters and certain official matters. I can agree that it is important to improve citizens' access to public services and that this in turn creates a better society. The idea is good, but there is nevertheless a reason in the report to disengage the motions. During the investigation by the Constitutional Committee on this matter, the importance and the need for inter-agency cooperation emerges. For example, the regulation on regional growth highlights, among other things, the responsibility of the state authorities in regional growth efforts. There are requirements for, among other things, consultation, collaboration and coordination with other relevant government authorities, municipalities, county councils and others. Mr President, I would like to This brings my thoughts to the investigations initiated by the Government and mentioned in the report. In May 2015, the Government gave Statskontoret an assignment regarding state authorities' decision on location. The mission aims to give the government a comprehensive picture of the state presence in the country as well as a basis for assessing whether the governance of the authorities needs to be clarified in this respect. The mission includes, among other things, identifying the state presence regionally and locally. For example, we have seen in the past that the authorities have closed down local operations and closed local offices in some localities in the country. Of course, it is bad for the towns affected, and I therefore think it is good that these issues should be investigated. In January 2016, the Government commissioned the State Service Centre to analyse and propose which functions within the state authorities may be appropriate to operate in a coordinated manner in the state and outside the metropolitan areas. The assignment mainly includes government functions where there are opportunities for economies of scale, efficiency improvements and quality improvements through coordination and concentration. Mr President, I would like to However, if I am going to try to sum up this particular part of the report, I would like to think that the way forward on these issues is an increased degree of interaction between authorities on the one hand and municipalities on the other – but also between the two – if, for example, one strives to have a government activity in one of the municipality's premises or whatever it is about. There is a need for good growth and development in localities around the country. In the light of the government's initiated investigations, which I have mentioned, work is under way, among other things, on state authorities' decisions on location. It is my view that it is too early to draw any conclusions on these issues. At this stage, it is more appropriate to wait for the investigations to see what conclusions and what constructive and concrete proposals will be made there. Nor does the Constitutional Committee wish to anticipate the results of the missions and other work outlined in this dossier. Therefore, the movements in this section are discouraged. In addition, Mr President, another part of the report in a committee motion called for a declaration that the various tasks of the county administrative board should be harmonised and coordinated so that their objectives do not conflict with each other in the case of small hydroelectric power. According to the motionary, the tasks of the County Administrative Board must be coordinated, and impact assessments must be carried out in such a way that the tasks assigned within the authorities are in harmony with each other in the case of small hydroelectric power. Here the Constitutional Committee notes that the government has set up a committee to propose a new division of counties and county councils, which means that Sweden is divided into considerably fewer counties and county councils. The division shall also involve more efficient organisations and activities. The Committee shall take into account the needs of citizens and business on the various issues, such as communications, the labour market, health and education. The Directives also mention that a new classification can enable better coordination of efforts to take measures to reduce climate impact, energy transition and more. This is clear from the report, Mr President. The approach in this part of the report is in fact the same as in the one I have just presented, in the light of the investigations initiated by the Government and the accompanying work. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore does not want to anticipate the Committee's work in this case, and the position is that the motion should be rejected in this part too. Mr President, I would like to In addition, three different social democratic motions in the report have called for announcements on representation on government boards, for the government to promote increased influence on state power for elected representatives in parliament and for a review of the activities of the Transparency Councils. The position of the Constitutional Committee means that the motions are rejected, and we Social Democrats support this. However, it should be mentioned in this context that the Government decided in February 2016 to give Statskontoret a commission on government governance of the public sector. The assignment includes that Statskontoret shall analyse the need for governance of cooperation between agencies, in order to achieve more effective and effective collaboration and coordination across organizational boundaries. We Social Democrats welcome the government's established investigation and ambitious efforts to bring about better government governance. With this, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-625	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the KU17 Public Administration. This report is also based on movements from the general period of exercise last autumn and the autumn before it. It's 50 moves. Like some previous speakers, I intended to focus on two parts of this motion for a resolution. The first part deals with this with processing times, where the Alliance has a common reservation. These are really very good proposals, you might say. I suppose we all want to shorten the processing times. But it's one thing to want to do it – it's also very hard to do it. There has been an announcement already in 2005, and the Alliance has had an enormous amount of time to deal with this. An investigation has also been set up, so it is certainly not that you have done nothing. However, this is complicated. Then there has been an investigation, and now this is being handled in the Government Office. Proposals are being made for a new administrative law. It is almost the case that one could be rallied that it takes a long time to shorten processing times, but I will not do so. Instead, I will say that it is also important that it be right. Well, I guess it'll take some time. It's not just that it's going to be quick. The second part I was going to talk about is this with local service offices. There are a lot of parties that have exercised about local service offices. It is important in the age of urbanisation to give good support to the country, and there are a number of things that are happening and have happened. There are SEK 750 million set aside in the rural development programme to support regional development, and in the latest budget bill the government allocated an additional SEK 35 million for regional growth measures. Money was also allocated to the Swedish Agency for Growth for their work with regional issues. These are extremely important issues. I also think that the Constitutional Committee has a very positive writing on local service offices and the importance of highlighting good initiatives to support rural areas. As Emanuel Öz pointed out earlier, there are a number of assignments from Statskontoret regarding government agencies to review how government agencies can be helped by each other and to be able to relocate as much as possible outside the Stockholm area. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the draft decision of the Constitutional Committee.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-634	Mr President, I would like to Like most people here, I'm going to talk about the local service offices. As many have said, there are several motions about them. For the Left Party we have motions from both the Parliamentary Session 2014/ 15 and 2015/ 16. Nevertheless, I have chosen not to lift the exercise and make any reservation based on it. You might find that a little strange. However, as the report says, there are ongoing processes and discussions, and there are wordings in the budget proposal. When we negotiated the budget with the government, we also raised the need to review the location of the state authorities in several parts of the country, and there are processes going on in various places. The last time the question was raised in committee, there was a joint reservation from S, V and MP in this area. But now that we have managed to include our wording and the work that has now been initiated in the budget, there is no reason for me to reserve myself in favour of doing something that is already being done. I therefore call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved in its entirety.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-638	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate and discuss the report of the Committee on Education and Training on adult education. There are a total of 46 exercise requests from general exercise time. Of course, I and the Moderates support all our reservations, but I only support reservations 1 and 2. The approaches we have to deal with today concern a wide range of areas: the right to adult education, apprenticeships, university of applied sciences – eligibility for this and number of start-ups – post-secondary education for special school pupils and a little more. Overall, the moderate proposals are that we need to have the right education for the right person, at the right time and for the right job. I'm going to develop this a little bit. Adult education and SFI and a combined such, Sfx, and the University of Applied Sciences were developed by the Alliance during our time. But much of this we need to continue to develop, and we need to continue to improve quality. Not everyone needs, should not, does not want, and some may not be able to become academics either. But the truth is that we have a shortage of labour in many of those professions. Large industries are emerging in Sweden today where we lack employable people. Then we must prioritise and develop quality and ensure that we have the right type of education in Sweden. People who do not want to study for five years and then be able to work, but who want to study as short a time as possible, should be able to be in education as short as possible and then learn most things at work – to learn the job at work – through an apprenticeship system or in a polytechnic education. This is what we propose in our reservation 2. It is also about being able to switch between jobs – lifelong learning. We live longer and will be healthy longer, and that's great. But it also means that we will have great challenges in the future to get more people to work longer. And the opportunity to work with the same thing all my life is a thing of the past. I think that's good, because I think there are few people who even want to work with the same thing their whole life. But then you need to be able to go inside out in education. It can be to supplement adult education qualifications, and it can be to supplement and deepen their knowledge at the university. It may also be that the same thing needs to be done in a polytechnic education. We want to make all this possible. In times like these – last fall, an incredible number of people came to Sweden at the same time, and it continues to come to people with relatively low education – this becomes extra important. That is why our proposal on education is very important. I am pleased that the Government in the Migration Agreement agrees with us that it will be investigated. It has now been six months, and nothing has yet happened. That is why we are calling for our party motion, which deals specifically with education. We have nine years of compulsory schooling in Sweden. If you come to Sweden without an adequate primary education, we think, and we know, that you need it to manage in Sweden. It's not just for you to manage in the labour market, but for you to manage in everyday, ordinary, other life as well. You should have enough knowledge to make informed choices, be able to vote, be able to follow news, be able to do a social analysis and thus be independent and free in our fairly advanced society. We do people a disservice if we do not make demands on primary education. We do it on our children, and we also need to do it in all the new Swedes who are coming here today. The University of Applied Sciences is very successful. Many people get jobs after completing polytechnic education. Unfortunately, many who seek do not come in. They will never qualify, even though they may have completed a vocational programme in high school which they believe will give them access to the corresponding continuation of the university of applied sciences, but this does not happen all the time. We need to change that. It must be much more predictable which upper secondary courses are required to qualify for university of applied sciences. We also believe that the requirements of the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education that you must have worked in the relevant industry in order to be able to enter the university of applied sciences are unnecessarily high. The whole point of further training is that you should learn so that you can then get out to work. You should also be able to switch between different industries. This is what the University College is for. Unfortunately, we are not yet here, and therefore the eligibility criteria need to be reviewed and amended. An organiser of polytechnic education can today be approved for two starts at a time, for example one to autumn and one to next autumn. This means in practice that organisers need to devote almost all their waking time to applying for more starters instead of focusing on developing the quality of education so that it is up to the mark and all students get the internship they are entitled to. That is why we want the general rule to be three starts. Then you apply for autumn, next autumn and autumn following. The university of applied sciences authority should also be able to grant only two starts if it cannot be demonstrated that the education is really needed for three years to come. Five starts at a time should also be possible. There are professions where there is so much work force shortage that we know that there will be a need for training in these for a long time to come. Large investments in machinery and equipment are also needed to carry out some of these training courses. Then it is financially irresponsible not to say from the outset that these training courses get five starts. We think it should be possible. There are those who have been in special school who are really good, smart and can handle most of it, but it takes a little longer for them to learn new things. Today, they have no opportunity to further educate themselves after high school. We think that is a hole in the head and completely unnecessary. I cannot think of any reasonable explanation for the need to do so. If you can get through the same program but it may take two years longer, why should you not get that opportunity? It would mean so much to the individual, who can then give a lot back to society and all of us. In fact, I took a year to work and do some other things before I chose to study. So do most students, so I don't think we should take it very seriously that it takes a little longer for some to finish their studies. I hope for a good and fruitful debate so that we can push and wet these proposals. I would also very much like to know why the study on education requirements for newcomers has not gone further. It has been six months since we jointly decided that this should be investigated. What has happened since then?
i-AUuGsvgrDaoEWNKubs51Ra	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 8. Let me pay tribute to the other parties. In fact, you have squeezed out an idea or two that I can imagine supporting in the future. For example, the lifelong right to study at komvux is a good idea. But some things have been forgotten, such as where break point should be set. Komvux should not be a supply system where you can read as many times or as many courses as you like. The Center Party's proposal to extend polytechnic education with a base year is also good. We are also willing to look at that more. Mr President, I would like to I'm going to focus on one thing today because one of my former students was affected by this very thing. After special high school, she realized she couldn't keep searching. Today, special high school does not offer any chance of further reading, but has to go on other routes. This girl told me her life's fate and how many hours and years she'd wasted reading it all into komvux and other things. Mr President, I would like to 1% of the population depends on a specific form of school, special school. It's a school form for intellectual disabilities. It's easy to get lost in the concepts of disability and disability, so I thought I'd take an easy-to-understand example. If I'm in a wheelchair, I have a disability. If I'm going to get into school and there are high thresholds, it's a disability. It's easy to confuse the concepts, so it's good to be clear. The possibilities for further search for special upper secondary school are therefore very limited, and long detours must be taken. Let me bring up some statistics so that we can understand how wrong we were thinking in the old school. In the new school system we have hopefully thought better. In the old school system you got stuck if you were autistic. Under autism lies both savants and asperger. I will read out the names of some people that the President may recognize whose behaviour and symptoms show that they may have had one of these diagnoses: Einstein, Michelangelo, HC. Andersen and Isaac Newton. In the old system, none of these had been allowed to move on to higher education. It says quite a lot about how wrong the system has been. Hopefully, as I said, the new system will be better adapted. But I am still afraid that one or another misanalysed person will get stuck in this system. There are people in the current system who would go further if they could only do so at a slower pace. Right now, a university in Gävleborg is conducting a very interesting project in which these students study the same thing but for a longer time and with an adapted education. However, the degree requirements are the same as for the other students. At present, funding is the major problem. It falls between CSN's rules and the activity compensation. The student allowance is designed so that if you do not read a certain number of points in a given period of time, you are not entitled to go further, and activity compensation is not granted if you read. The students thus end up in a part 22. None of the new national programmes for upper secondary school provides higher education qualifications. As I said, we have to move on alternative routes. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats have certainly not been involved in causing all the misery we have in the Swedish school system. It's on so many levels, but I'll focus on one thing: the new arrivals. New arrivals have the opportunity to study a lot of different educations. There are suggestions to study SFI training remotely and online. Here I see what I said at my press conference a week ago: a kind of preparatory school. Make sure that individuals entering the Swedish system remain in an alternative system so long that they can survive in the Swedish school. They should not, as at present, be thrown into different levels. This applies at all levels all the way up into the system. This must be better done. There must be a consultation with the proposed entity to which the person should come. There must be a digital national test. Why do we spend a lot of time mapping people when we could do it much more efficiently digitally and thus save a lot of resources? There must also be a support school afterwards. The preparatory school could perhaps be this support school. It goes without saying that you do not have all the knowledge when you enter a new system. You may feel insecure after the day, and then you can get this support. We believe that this could also be introduced at all levels. At present, the municipalities, Mr President, are required to carry out a large number of tasks. When I sat down and scrolled through this myself, I was almost surprised that even I as a politician and should not be able to keep track of this at all levels. Daily we read in the newspapers about cuts that have to be made. In fact, I have to say, Mr President, that it is the other seven parties that are to blame for this. We have not yet been in a position of government and cannot be accused of having drafted and produced any laws. The municipality's responsibility today is therefore 15 hours of teaching. Adapting to the needs of the student. You can study in almost every hour of the day. There will be collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen, a work environment orientation, a validation, an internship, a motivation of students, study and career guidance and so on. There is an enormous amount of responsibility that we place on the municipalities, and I do not currently see that the municipalities will be able to do this. Unfortunately, I would like to give a small warning signal, and that is that I am afraid that we will destroy our school system from within. But, of course, there are solutions, and some of them we have presented ourselves here today. Mr President, I would like to What is interesting is that all these legislative amendments now proposed will be implemented on 1 July 2016. What I can see from the fact that I am also a municipal politician is that we completely overrule municipal self-government. I sincerely hope that the future shows that I am wrong, but I am afraid that I will be right.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-682	Mr President, I would like to So this is the report of the Committee on Education and Training on adult education. When you listen to this kind of debate, it can sometimes be a little difficult to imagine what is behind the various proposals that come from different political parties. Sometimes it is actually easier to relate to a bill, a proposal from the government, and in the field of vocational training it has been announced from the government that proposals will be made on, for example, the University of Applied Sciences at the end of this parliamentary year. We are really looking forward to that. Then one could say that this kind of debate is like trampling water. Many good ideas come forward, and at the same time I think it is incredibly important to talk about skills provision in Sweden. We are talking about skills provision for all those people who are in need of jobs but also about people who may need to change the industry and find new ways, not least to develop in their professional lives. That is why we are talking about adult education at very many different levels. Together with a number of other parties, the Government has appointed 2016 as the year of vocational education and training, and it feels like a commendable initiative to raise the need for different forms of vocational education and training, not least to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary education for the current vocational education and training. Another issue that we have raised from the Center Party is about how we can create a better apprenticeship system. We have had an apprenticeship in upper secondary school for a number of years. We have also added adult apprenticeships, but we would have to develop this even more. I therefore welcome the fact that many different parties are discussing this issue and are presenting new proposals and input so that we can find the best possible system. Many companies are also looking at how this could be designed in such a way that both companies get the skills they need and that individuals receive the training they want. This is something that we have highlighted and which is in some reservations. The Center Party has also highlighted the introduction of an adult pension. We have free school choices in preschool, comprehensive school and upper secondary school, but when it comes to adult education you are very much referred to the range that the municipalities have arranged. We welcome the experiments that exist in various municipalities in Sweden where this has been introduced and would like to see progress made also at national level. Another part that has been raised earlier in the debate, and which I also really want to stress, is about the education of those students who have attended upper secondary school. It is clear that there are ways forward today; I do not think we should paint the reality of night black. There is much good to be done, but too much, as well as in projects of various kinds. I think there are many of us who, for example, know about SV Kulturcollege in Örebro, where you work with students who have attended upper secondary school and see what opportunities you can give these people to get closer to the labour market, because the four years in upper secondary school are not enough. Then it is not always a question of getting additional qualifications to the university, it is a question of being further equipped for working life. I know that ministers in the cooperation government, Ylva Johansson, for example, have paid tribute to this project, and I would like the government to be able to make sure that these good projects are taken up and how it could be better transformed into ordinary activities. Sometimes I think that there are a lot of different and fantastic projects going on around Sweden. But they run out, and then you lose the skills you've built in the meantime. We would like to see this type of initiative. Other parts that we from the Center Party have highlighted are about more training rounds in the University of Applied Sciences, as also mentioned by Ida Drougge from the Moderates. There are many who point to the need for this. I mentioned that there will be a bill at the end of this parliamentary year. It is based on a ministerial letter in which a great many different proposals have been made. I very much look forward to this bill, and I hope that the government is brave enough to be able to highlight much of what we are also debating here today and which has been brought forward from different parties, because much of it is proposed. These include access to the university of applied sciences and the ability to broaden those parts and validate knowledge in a different way. We've mentioned base years – it doesn't always have to be a base year – but the possibility of really being able to complement should be there. It is also about LIA sites. Freestanding courses should be offered, says this letter, among other things, and the prerequisites for the continuity and long-termness of education should be improved. I am really looking forward to the bill so that we have something more substantial to debate from outside. Until then, we come up with many good proposals, and I would like to call for the approval, Mr President, of reservations 3 and 8 which are linked, on the one hand, to adult money and, on the other hand, to the possibility of pupils who have attended secondary school for further education. We are, of course, in favour of all other reservations as well, but for the time to come, I am therefore in favour of reservations 3 and 8.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-695	Mr President, I would like to I learned this morning that anyone who is knowledgeable at work today but refuses to learn new will eventually be perfectly prepared for a world that no longer exists. I think there is quite or even a lot in it, because what we are seeing now is that working life is changing very quickly. Companies come and go, workplaces come and go, entire professions come and go and new ones are created all the time. This dynamic is, I think, very lovely. It creates opportunities for social mobility. It creates the opportunity for people to grow. It creates the opportunity to emerge from poverty, and it provides the opportunity to create prosperity in a country. Anyone who complains about change and would rather have stagnation should know that a stagnant society is a society that is not very nice. It'll be conservative, and it'll be a lock-in place to live. Change also demands that we be prepared to learn constantly and that we also constantly forget what we have learned. Sometimes it is actually harder to forget than to learn new things. In fact, we are constantly learning new things – in everyday life, at work and in various further trainings at work. Some become more structured learning, some become less structured learning, but all the time we learn new things. There is diversity, and it is important that there is a variety of recurring opportunities to learn new things. That is what everyone is going to need, and many of them have done so in the past. I welcome the extension of the right to komvux. I think it's crucial that you don't expect everyone to pass upper secondary school or university qualifications right away without getting the chance to come back to school later in life on reasonable terms. I think it would be fun if we could develop a lot of vocational education and training so that we do not have to choose either one or the other without being able to take a structured education during the time we have another job to prepare for the next, both at the level of the competitors and universities of applied sciences. I welcome the fact that many people are now considering how there can be more apprentices in Swedish education. It is absolutely central, not least, that we have previously been into, to meet the opportunities and challenges that quite a lot of new people in Sweden have come to face when they are going to enter the Swedish labour market. In order to also create flexibility and dynamism in this area, an adult allowance is probably needed to empower the individual to choose the performer she thinks is best and to find more individually adapted solutions that are close to the labour market. I think, as many have said before, that it would be good if the government soon put forward a proposal to renew the university of applied sciences. There are well-developed research proposals that are interesting and would make the university of applied sciences both more flexible and at the same time more predictable with longer periods of study and also offer individual courses for those who need rapid updating of a specific subject for their profession. The success of the University of Applied Sciences is certainly clear. A lot of people who go to university of applied sciences get jobs. The reason is that there is a clear link with the industry. The difficulty arises in a society where industries are rapidly disappearing. Training will find it difficult to relate to sectors that do not yet exist. The balance to cope with the university of applied sciences' future ability to get jobs while being dynamic in a rapidly changing world is one of the challenges that the government will try to address in the bill and where we from the Alliance will be careful to ensure that the government does so. At all, there is wild vocational training in this country. It's hard to orient yourself and know what's going on. There are different conditions for applying for different courses. There are different conditions for compensation. It is difficult to know whether there are different courses based on each other or what level you are at. Vocational training, labour market training, polytechnics and much more are complementary in nature and related to the individual's system. It is difficult to predict, and it is difficult for employers to validate. Speaking of validation, let us remember that the alliance government took some steps forward there. The present government has also tried this, but it is a difficult area. It is difficult to validate training from other countries, but it must be done. We believe from the Liberals that this work needs to be speeded up and intensified, not least given that we have received many new ones to enter the Swedish labour market as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to It is wonderful that there are several parties here today that have highlighted the group that has the least opportunities in Swedish education at the moment. For me, liberalism is about the freedom and empowerment of the individual. I personally think that priority should always be given to reforms that increase the freedom and empowerment of those who today have the least. A group with fewer opportunities than most others in the education system are those with disabilities. It is good that more people stress the importance of facilitating their access to the education system as well. The Alliance government carried out a series of reforms in the field of special education. We also carried out some reforms regarding access to upper secondary schools for primary school pupils. But we need ways to move forward. There is also a need for post-secondary education for these students. In 2014, there was only one higher education programme that was adapted for students with intellectual disabilities. There are some folk high schools that are good at creating space for further study, but more is needed. I think Ulrika Carlsson was a little shy. She has a certain responsibility for SV Kulturcollege. There are clear examples of how developing activities can be created. Ulrika Carlsson can take some of the credit. I have visited the school myself and seen that it is a very fine activity, but it is also a business that needs support to continue. With so many perspectives in the education system, it is often a question of project money. Project money has the advantage that it is temporary, and then it is not possible to create new things, but it has the disadvantage that it is not possible to create security and continued opportunities to develop a business. Mr President, I would like to We need more of several ways in, not least for those who have the smallest possibilities right now. It is good that it is noted in several reservations and motions. However, I would ask you to accept reservation 3.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-715	Mr President, I would like to All adults should have the opportunity to increase their knowledge and skills. It can be about personal development or a path to work and self-support. You may need to retrain for various reasons, to get a second chance, or perhaps even a third chance in life. There must therefore be a variety of flexible solutions for those who need a second chance. The solution may be komvux to supplement for further studies. It may be necessary to have previous training or knowledge validated, to have access to an apprenticeship or to have a university of applied sciences education. After all, the University of Applied Sciences, which the Alliance Government carried out, has proved to be a very successful initiative. Nine out of ten graduates have a job one year after completing their education, and six out of ten have a job that is fully or partly consistent with the education. Complementing education or re-education and vocational training is absolutely essential in today's society, which is changing at an unprecedented pace. This also brings to mind how we view the entire education system. We will train for working life, but above all give our pupils in school the tools that enable them to manage a transition to new jobs and new professions. We have no idea what working life will require of us in 20 years' time. We're not going to train our students just for working life, but for life. I'll give them the tools. Mr President, I would like to Many people have valuable knowledge that has been acquired through long professional experience or through education in another country. These skills must be taken into account and fully assessed in recruitment. It's not done today. Both the coordination and quality of the validation of academic knowledge and work experience must be improved and processing times reduced. We need a formalised and nationwide system that makes validation more effective and the way to work shorter. Here it will be central with education in the Swedish language. It must become more concrete and more linked to the profession you intend to pursue, a so-called professional Swedish. Mr President, I would like to We know for sure that the importance of adult education will increase in the future. We are facing major challenges. There are several major changes in society. It is about digitalisation, globalisation and automation. As a result, business needs will change and change more quickly. Adult education will play an increasingly important role as people have to constantly train and change jobs. Automation means that simple jobs will be taken over by robots and computers or moved to low-wage countries. This, in turn, leads to growing social challenges. The differences between city and country are also growing. Another challenge is the ageing population, which means that people have to work longer. Adult education must therefore satisfy people from different backgrounds, for example the need for SFIs and other education for immigrant groups will increase, and so will education for older people. Adult education is in the gap between primary and secondary schools and higher education, but it also has a role to play in getting all people to participate in and create value in our society and to feel good and develop themselves according to their own conditions. It is a little strange to have a debate in which only the opposition has so far been involved in the debate. There are two parties missing, one of which is a government party. I therefore look forward to the speech of the Social Democrats coming shortly after me. Of course, the Christian Democrats are behind all their reservations, but for time-winning we are in favour of reservations 6 and 13.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-727	Mr President, I would like to I thought it was nice to hear that Annika Eclund is looking forward to my speech. Thank you for that! Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Education and Training on motions submitted in the field of adult education. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Mr President, I would like to Adult education is a necessity in a modern knowledge society where knowledge and competence are constantly changing and evolving as society, Sweden and the world change. Adult education is important to provide the necessary basis for work, a platform for further studies and a way out of unemployment by acquiring new skills or a new vocational training. As the proportion of jobs requiring only short-term training decreases, education and training are becoming increasingly important. Having upper secondary education is becoming increasingly crucial in order to be able to establish themselves in the labour market on a permanent basis. Without upper secondary education, there is a risk of falling into a vulnerable position with the risk of unemployment, precarious working conditions and low pay. We also have a major matching problem: on the one hand, a large group of unemployed, on the other hand, a demand from companies for labour, but the knowledge of the unemployed is not in line with what companies are asking for. Then adult education is important. However, adult education is not just about work or increasing employability. I think it's important to say that. It is also about opportunities to increase your freedom as an individual and your opportunity for development, and that is important. Adult education is an educational pathway to increase personal freedom, stretch borders, discover new knowledge, see new contexts, make new choices and meet impressions, people and knowledge that you have never met before. I think we all have people in our circle of friends and know people who have done this. I'm thinking of two myself. After 16 years of working in a store in Swedish commerce, Eva chose to supplement her grades of komvux and to train as a teacher. She has worked as such for several years, and now she is working to welcome and introduce newly arrived children and young people and help map their knowledge. It's a trip. After his professional programme in upper secondary school and almost as many years as electrician, Thomas went on to a teacher's education. Today he works as a high school teacher in Swedish and history. Both of them dared to take the step. They made efforts and made sacrifices of their own, but they also took advantage of their personal potential. Maybe they made a dream come true, and they changed direction. But they also had support from a society that gave them the opportunity to learn later in life, opportunities for student support and backing up to increase their personal freedom. It benefited them as individuals, but it also benefited society. It is within what we sometimes proudly call the Swedish model. My view, the view of the Social Democrats and the view of the government is precisely that education should be accessible to all throughout life. This requires more places, more roads and an extension of adult education that opens doors. This is how unemployment can be broken and more people can gain access to the labour market or continue their studies. We also increase the freedom of people and individuals. Mr President, I would like to This was also the background to the Government's proposal in its 2016 budget proposal for a substantial expansion of adult education. It was a knowledge boost for Sweden that the Riksdag also adopted and a welcome decision. This means that we now have 19 200 more places in Komvux and professional adult. The Government also announced that the right to komvux will be introduced in 2017. Such a proposal is now being prepared in the Government Office and comes to Parliament. We also decided in the Riksdag to increase seats to the university of applied sciences, a form of education that has shown very good results in matching job seekers with the needs of the business community. A lot of people have talked about it. Nine out of ten students have work the year after graduation, many in the field they have trained for. It's fun that the Alliance takes credit for the fact that the University of Applied Sciences has been formed as a public authority. But it is worth knowing that qualified vocational training has existed for a long time and that the university of applied sciences is a continuation of it. 2,500 places in 2016 and 6,000 places in 2017 will be added to the University of Applied Sciences. More people will be given the opportunity to acquire a qualified professional competence. However, as many have done, the university of applied sciences needs to develop and sometimes gain more continuity, sometimes more flexibility. The government will therefore submit a proposal for a strengthened university of applied sciences now on the spring side. It will strengthen such a focus. Let's get back to that discussion then, a little more specifically. The budget bill also proposed an increase in the number of seats within the folk high school. Folkhögskolan is for some people the opportunity to come back and complete an education. Its pedagogy and working methods can help those people into a regular education. For many of our new arrivals, Folkhögskolan can also be a good way into Swedish society and working life. Therefore, the government increases the number of seats within the folk high school in both general and special courses but also in the study-motivating courses. When the budget bill was adopted, or when it was presented and presented to the Riksdag, what came to happen in Sweden was not anticipated – that we got a very strong increase in the number of refugees to Sweden. I think this is important to remember, and several of you were thinking similarly: to cope with the reception of refugees in a good and dignified way, new thinking is needed, also in terms of how we work with adult education. It is a work that I think it is important that we continue to discuss. How can we give new arrivals the skills they don't have, get them out of work faster and give them good opportunities to establish themselves in Sweden? They will be able to add a great deal if that process goes well. I believe that the vast majority of the parties in the Committee on Education and Training can agree on this, and I think that we can continue this discussion. I believe, for example, that apprenticeship schemes for adults can be such a measure. Today there are two paths in vocational education and training for adults. One is a professional adult, but there is also a government investment in apprenticeship schemes for adults. Today, between 1,600 and 1,700 adults work in such an apprenticeship system. It is very possible that, in the light of the developments we have had, there may be reason to expand it or see how it can contribute to a stronger establishment for new arrivals. Mr President, I would like to Our view is that education should be accessible to all throughout life. This means high ambitions for adult education in terms of both number of places and quality. Efforts that open doors to work or further studies make the individual stronger, and this makes Sweden stronger. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-753	Mr President, I would like to There were very high expectations of Håkan Bergman's speech. I thought he at least partly lived up to them, not least in the part where he highlighted individuals and talked about their journey to increased knowledge, increased opportunities in the labour market and increased freedom and development. He sounded almost like an old-fashioned social democrat who stood up for the old ideals of education. One concern of today's adult education system is that the individual himself has difficulty controlling this at times. There are certainly public systems. There are business trainings. In the contract business, it has been concluded that there should be conversion insurance. But it is a small piece of the puzzle, a rather important piece of the puzzle, which after all is missing. It is a matter of the individual's own ability to obtain an education that is not justified by the situation at the moment but is motivated by her willingness to move forward without taking out a loan. My question is therefore to Håkan Bergman : Is the government prepared to transfer power over the training of the individual to the individual itself by, for example, introducing some form of deduction or some form of skills account that the individual can build up together with his employer and union? It is about an opportunity to shape your own future.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-756	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, and thank you for the appreciative words that I would be an old-fashioned Social Democrat! For me, Social Democracy is very much about freedom, also about the freedom of the individual. I'm proud to stand by that. Now Håkan Bergman is not in the government and can't speak entirely for the government on all the issues discussed. However, I do not believe that any proposal is being prepared or there is any discussion about introducing any kind of adult allowance in municipal adult education. The starting point for municipal adult education and, for example, for the change decided by the Riksdag in terms of increasing the individualisation of adult education is that it should be designed according to the individual's wishes and willingness to acquire new knowledge. It is, as it were, part of the idea of adult education. That's how it's supposed to be designed. Then it can be combined in different ways. Some municipalities have chosen other things. But I think that the basic idea of adult education is to see: What does this individual need for knowledge in order to acquire the education that that individual wants? Then study and vocational guidance in municipal adult education and adult learning is much more important, I think, than introducing a system change with some kind of adult money.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-759	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Bergman spoke so beautifully for the first 20 seconds that I hoped he would stay there. It was so beautiful to highlight the individual, the need for the individual's freedom to increase and for the individual to have more chances. But then, after all, he landed in the Social Democratic thought that the freedom of the individual may freely exist as long as the Commune is allowed to define what she needs to learn. That's exactly what Håkan Bergman said. We're not having any adult money, which is not what I asked for. I did not ask for adult money, but I asked for a skills account that would give the individual another opportunity to find funding for things that she thinks are central to her own growth and creating new opportunities in the labour market. But Håkan Bergman landed in this: It can be more freedom for the individual as long as it takes place in controlled forms that the municipality and the state determine. I think it's boring. I think we should have more opportunities for the individual to grow and develop, a little as Håkan Bergman said in his own stories.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-762	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I said that. I said that we must have an adult education in Sweden based on the individual's need for knowledge and the individual's desire to get the skills you feel lacking. That must be the job of adult education. The range of courses and opportunities for training must be designed in such a way. I think that is quite clear in the framework that applies to adult education. Then I think that there are always discussions within all parties about opportunities for skills funds or provisions and so on. It is also an exchange of views between the various social partners. I thought Christer Nylander was talking about adult money. Then you can think. We've had eight years with the Alliance government. I didn't see any proposal for such an adult allowance and I didn't hear anything about any such thoughts from you when you were in government. I must say that I also felt little commitment to these issues from the Liberal Party leader Jan Björklund, who was then Minister of Education. I'll let the ball go over to the Liberals again.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-766	Mr President, I would like to Now, on behalf of Christer Nylander, I must point out that it was actually the Alliance Government that set up the investigation that has proposed this with adult money, so things are happening in this area, even if we were not re-elected and had the opportunity to pull everything through and get it ashore. Now I'm gonna go over to what I'd like to focus on. I hear very nice and very very good. But why do you not want to argue against the proposals we have, if that is what you think? At least that's how you vote. Why talk big and nice about adult education instead of dealing with the substance? Is it because you don't have answers? I wonder. I will address two specific issues. One relates to the obligation to provide training. V i has agreed that it should be investigated. It has now been six months. Why does it take so long to prepare an investigation? That's my first question. Is it that you don't want to do this? Is that why? My second question is about the ability of special school students to continue their studies after high school. I wonder, Mr President, what is it that makes Håkan Bergman and his colleagues in the government unable to accept this and go on with such a proposal.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-770	Mr President, I would like to I chose to concentrate on presenting our views and views on adult education in my speech. I was pretty sure there'd be lines. I therefore have the opportunity to reply now. The question of compulsory education was raised in the agreement made by the government with the other parties. That question shall be reviewed. I do not know what exactly is happening with regard to preparation. I cannot give a concrete answer to that. But it is part of an agreement that the government has concluded. Then I assume – and I think everyone should – that it will start a job where you look at that question. There may be problems with that, but it will surely have such a review or investigation, or in whatever form it is taking place. Then the discussion will continue around it. The issue of special school pupils is an issue that we are also discussing. What are the possibilities for special school pupils to go on in other forms of education? We have such examples. Very successful examples were mentioned. We have in our group – I will readily admit – both a great deal of commitment and discussion about this. We have now said in the report that we want to continue to follow the issue. This can only be done by looking at what is happening, but one can also take a more active stance and continue discussions with the other parties in the Education Committee on what we can do.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-774	Mr President, I would like to Then I will take it with me and sincerely hope that we will be able to discuss such issues in the future and that we can see a proposal that increases the opportunities for special school pupils to receive post-secondary education. As far as the preparation is concerned, Mr President, I understand why Håkan Bergman cannot know exactly what has happened in detail about the proposal. But I also assume, like Håkan Bergman himself, that the government will deliver what we have agreed on. But recently, as late as this week, part of the agreement we made was abandoned. Reducing the number of quota refugees in favour of other refugees. Some amendments to the agreements have therefore started to be made, while the proposals on, among other things, training obligations that we took into the negotiations and were very concerned about have not yet been communicated. The alliance proposals have not got anywhere. As a whole, I am starting to think about what the government is doing in this area. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to put the question here now that we are debating it and are still able to vote in favour of it in Parliament. If the government is still in favour of investigating this, we can vote in favour of our motion and show that we stand by the agreement and keep our promises in this area at least.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-779	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I am not in the government, but one thing is certain: if the government deviates from agreements made with the other parties, it will tell them. I dare to stand by that, and now I speak on behalf of my own party: this is how the Social Democracy has dealt with agreements in the past, and that is probably the case here too. One can argue as Ida Drougge, but she and the Moderates are in opposition. We now have a situation where the government is to deal with the fact that 160 000 refugees came to Sweden last year. This presents major challenges and pressures for both the education system and labour market and integration policies. Discussions must be held with authorities, municipalities and regions, and coordination must be ensured. It is a huge effort for the Government Office and the Government because a wide range of measures have to be taken. Then they'll have to give priority, too. I believe that this issue is being prepared and that it will be raised again with the other parties, but I cannot tell you exactly where it is now. But I can say that the Social Democracy stands for its agreements. I hope the Moderates do, too. This discussion would benefit from looking at the challenges we face when it comes to receiving many people and ensuring that they get into education and work as well as good establishment.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-783	Mr President, I would like to Last year, the government invested more than 32 billion in research. It is for Sweden important and well-invested money that creates new knowledge, innovations and business opportunities for the future. The fact that such large investments could be made is due to the fact that the alliance government in its time had order in the economy, despite several years of economic unrest in the outside world. With so much resources, however, it is also important to manage the crowns wisely. It is therefore surprising that the current government, after all fair speech, seems to lack a strategy for the area, although it is clear that high quality should no longer be rewarded in either higher education or research. I am thinking, for example, of the SEK 300 million that literally disappeared in this year's budget. It was funds that the Alliance government had set aside to reward high-quality education. In the same way, the government handles quality in research. In previous years, funds have been redistributed to those universities that have had the highest quality of research in terms of the indicators citations, publications and the degree of external funding. But in this year's budget, the government has partially abandoned it. The funds that, according to the research strategy from 2012, were to be redistributed to higher education institutions that had the highest ranked research were instead distributed so that all higher education institutions received at least 5 million each, and the remaining funds were grouped into something that risks being likened to making A, B and C teams of higher education institutions. As an example, this has made Blekinge Institute of Technology, BTH, which is certainly excellent in many research areas, this year received as much money as Karolinska Institutet, KI, which ranks as number 28 in Times Higher Education's list of the world's leading universities. It becomes a little strange, and it is also not in line with the research strategy that the Riksdag has decided will apply until 2016. The latest budget also shows that we have to wait a ten-year bill for research, innovation and higher education. Why this is just ten years is explained by just one argument, and that is that research needs long-term conditions. This is true, but on the other hand it is something that sounds false because the government has shown several times since it took office that this rule only seems to apply if it is they themselves who have decided on the policy. It is therefore not very credible. Barely a year ago, such a strange message was given, which at the same time confirms the image that the quality of research is no longer in focus. The Alliance government made a special long-term investment in Swedish areas of strength in areas such as medicine, technology and the environment. These so-called strategic research areas, SFOs, are more than twenty in number and are conducted in twice as many environments. When they were set up, it was decided that they should be evaluated on an ongoing basis. This has happened, and last year, after five years, an overall interim result was presented. The panel of experts responsible for the evaluation stated at the time that the alliance government's initiative had been an excellent and innovative initiative and said that many of the SFO environments are of the highest international level, but not all. As a result of the evaluation, several heavy-duty research funders recommended the government to reallocate grants to reward top-class research environments. They also felt that the government should take steps to improve the benefits of research for society and business. But the minister turned a deaf ear. Instead, the Minister announced that no redistribution would take place now but that this would be taken up for work on the next bill a year and a half later. But what signals does it send? I'd say fateful. And so it is. At the moment there are clear indications that uncertainty has spread within the above-mentioned SFO environments. This is a situation that is mainly due to concerns about what will happen with the initiatives and whether they will remain when the new research bill is placed on the board of Parliament. Only a week ago, I received another reply: the government will not comment on any of this, but it will be discussed in the next research proposal. The government therefore stands by that very view. This obviously affects the quality and conditions of the activities and thus also the possibilities for recruitment of important research competence and development of the research areas. If you want it badly, this excellent and powerful investment is therefore driven by long-term and risky research in the ditch. It would be extremely unfortunate and a huge waste of both research and human capital – in fact some kind of brain drain. Research requires a long-term perspective. It is therefore important that a fixed strategy is in place, so that universities and research funders know what planning conditions they have, while we must follow the results of the research and also dare to redirect resources, if heavy scientific evaluations show that this is the right way to go. The Moderates believe in that philosophy. However, in order to optimise and have the opportunity to adapt Sweden's research strategy to the EU's, we believe that the duration of the programmes should be more over-matched. It would also provide an opportunity to revise certain initiatives, so that not all European research programmes invest in the same field of research and the same societal challenges. We therefore want to review the possibilities for Sweden's next research policy proposal to be valid for seven years. Mr President, I would like to Quality in research is also about issues such as good conditions for researchers, equal conditions for female and male researchers and access to modern research infrastructure. Education and research in the field of humanities and social sciences are often distributed in terms of research infrastructure. Today's society places great demands on the use of modern technology. It is therefore important that universities have the opportunity to use new technology in research and education. We Moderates think that this is an overlooked area and that we therefore need to invest more and ensure that the infrastructure needs and prerequisites for humanistic and social science research are met. This is particularly important in the teacher programmes, where future research into pedagogy must be developed in the field of ICT. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of research policy not just affecting the responsibilities of the Committee on Education and Training. On the contrary, there are many questions in other committees. I am thinking of life science, food research, the structure of the tax system, the existence of innovation procurements, and that companies should continue to be able to deduct research that is outside their core business, and so on. A long-term strategy and holistic approach are needed in order for Sweden to continue to be a successful research nation and so that companies choose to stay and retain their research in Sweden. Of course, that is why successful research of high quality and research in collaboration should pay off. This is how we build Sweden strongly for the future. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates obviously support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 2 and 4.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-802	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservations 13 and 8 but, of course, I support our other reservations. I thought I'd give you a little line talk about our research policy. Sweden's prosperity rests largely on innovations in the past. Thus, our prosperity in the future depends on whether we can maintain our ability to think new and think better. The situation today should not be black-painted or painted. Sweden still has innovative companies competing on the international market, and Sweden is, as I can see, relatively well in an international perspective in terms of government research funding. We invest almost 3.4% in research and development, although it is certainly a decrease from 4% in 2001. Of these 3,4%, business accounts for about 70%. We believe that a good benchmark for research funding is the 4% target. One problem, however, is that companies are increasingly investing in carrying out their research abroad. We should investigate or at least think about what we can do, fiscally and otherwise, in order to retain a greater share of research within the country. These may be relatively simple measures which at best have a major impact. Mr President, I would like to We would like to stress that successful research is fundamentally dependent on the entire education chain working, from preschool up to the university's doctoral studies. Many here may be pointing it out, but I believe that this is our greatest challenge today. It's serious. We have an education chain that does not perform as we would like, and in the end it also affects cutting-edge research, of course. We have independent universities in Sweden, something that is sometimes celebrated in different speeches and writings. However, we believe that there must be a balance between the autonomy of higher education institutions and the governance of the state, at least in terms of the needs of society. It's about tax money here. Government governance can be done, for example, through investments in strategic research areas or through contracts between higher education institutions and the state, which takes place in a lot of other countries. There are also areas in which the votes of the university's own experts should weigh more heavily, at the expense of the state's representatives. This applies, of course, to areas that require inside knowledge, such as certain subject-specific quality issues. We intend to come back with a proposal on the important issue to the research bill this autumn. With regard to the twenty strategic research areas that were mainly decided in the previous research bill and expanded in the previous bill, we think the areas are fairly balanced and reasonable. It was probably the Alliance that presented the previous bill. These are areas that can essentially bring great social benefits for the future. Mr President, I would like to We believe that we must have a programme of research into the next generation of nuclear power plants. Wind power plants and solar cells in all honours, but if we are to provide our heavy industry with power, we need to have some energy source that delivers large amounts of electricity continuously, safely and stable. Nuclear power emits very little carbon dioxide and is environmentally friendly. There is no long-term response other than nuclear energy, if we want to maintain our prosperity at the current level. If we're going to be in the game, we obviously need to do research on safe and efficient technology. This is about fourth generation nuclear power plants. Therefore, we will invest SEK 25 million in the current financial year, and then invest SEK 150 million per year in a research reactor. The report states that the committee sees no reason to support motion requests to investigate or otherwise promote the construction of a research reactor in Sweden. I can mention that we are already funding a thermonuclear research reactor in France, a tokamak reactor, with hundreds of millions of dollars from the EU budget. The project is called ITER – it is possible to google on. This project is unlikely to produce any commercial energy. So we are not spending money on what will work, not even in cooperation with other nations, but a lot of taxpayers' money is being spent on a project that will probably never be of direct benefit. Mr. Old President, ladies and gentlemen! Here I have a very clear opinion: this is madness. Otherwise, we believe that appropriate strategic research areas are what our economy rests largely on, namely steel industry, engineering, telecommunications and cellulose. Today is already part of this strategic effort. We should continue to invest in these areas, long-term and sustainable. It will certainly pay off in the future. In our budget, we invest SEK 250 million in a research initiative that mainly concerns those areas. Mr. Old President! Sweden has a relatively small share of research resources in the form of basic grants. As a strategic starting point, we should increase the basic funds so that they are approaching 60% of our total research resources in the long term. International studies – which at least I have looked at – show that spending on basic funding is well spent over time. It would also provide more secure career paths for researchers, who would then not have to spend a lot of time applying for research grants. A large part of a researcher's time is spent just applying for research grants in different instances. It is also important that we invest in quality rather than quantity. When we all visited the Swedish Research Council, Sven Stafström said : We do not need more researchers in Sweden. Perhaps no politician would have dared to say that. But we need long-term employment for the talented researchers we get. Rather, this is how an increased basic allocation should be used. Until now, I think most of us are quite in agreement, with the exception of nuclear power. Now I'm going to talk about what we might not agree on. This concerns the quality of certain research areas. We must make the same demands on climate research as on all other research. I believe that we should conduct advanced scientific climate research, just as we are researching in all other areas. However, the same demands should be made on the quality of this research as on, for example, particle research. In addition, one should preferably take a concerted approach to research so that it is not fragmented indefinitely. Mr. Old President! We have a rather sharply formulated exercise on artistic research. We're actually going to back up one step. It may not be possible to evaluate artistic research in the same way as other research because of the specific nature of the subject. But we should at least evaluate and discuss what we spend a great deal of tax money on. What requirements should we make? Or is it that the artistic disciplines are exploratory and creative in themselves? Can we spend the whole amount on artistic education instead? So we are not going to spend any money. As a political secretary, when I looked at artistic research, some things seemed very tense, and then I express myself diplomatically. Not all gender research is up to the mark either, and it is strange that some theses have been approved. In fact, these are purely Macchiarini-level dissertations. Here we think that the demands should be tightened up properly. There is also good and relevant gender research. We think that is a good thing, and we have no objection to that. Mr. Old President! It seems to me that the requirements are being reduced in certain cherished areas of research, and we think that is wrong. I will briefly say something about research on mental illness. There is a lot of research on mental illness I have understood when I have looked around. But we should probably take a more integrated and targeted approach to this research. Above all, the results must be useful and implemented. I put a question to the members of the committee: have we, in the Committee on Education, received any information on the increasing mental health of young schoolgirls in particular, or do we think that this is an unimportant issue? We also want to explore the possibilities of merging different authorities that allocate research money to get a more comprehensive and targeted approach to strategic efforts and to reduce administrative costs if possible. It may be possible to both save resources and get a more concerted effort by merging certain institutions. We should at least investigate this. Mr. Old President! Finally, we want to review the possibilities of concentrating different types of research on different higher education institutions, that is, more than today. Not all colleges need to do all the research. Some smaller higher education institutions can work with larger universities in terms of research. We are going to concentrate some research on those universities where the best research is already being conducted today in order to create, in European languages, a critical mass for advanced research.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-828	Mr. Old President! It was an interesting line speech, R obert Stenkvist, about Sweden's views on research. It is probably true that it gave a little more meat to the bones than the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, which primarily concern Sami language, gender research and precisely this by defining artistic research. Thanks for getting more meat on our feet. It was also interesting to hear that Robert Stenkvist is behind, as I see it, the investment in strategic research areas. However, I am surprised that the Swedish Democrats cannot support the reservation that the Liberals and the Moderates have, which is precisely about the evaluation and impact of the evaluation of the strategic research areas, to which I referred in my speech. I would like an explanation of that. Then I have to say that I agree with Robert Stenkvist when he raises the issue of young people's mental illness and research on it. In fact, we have a specific opinion on this particular issue – perhaps not on the mental health of young people, but on mental illness at all. This is an important part. It is extremely important that we are better at seeing the big picture of these issues. I am pleasantly surprised that Robert Stenkvist with such ease then says that other focus areas, such as gender research, can certainly be good and can certainly be bad. But I understand that Robert Stenkvist is the one who decides what is good and what is bad research in the gender field. Could you elaborate on this a little bit, Robert Stenkvist, I would be grateful.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-832	Mr. Old President! My memory is starting to falter with this reservation. I remember it in part, and we discussed it back and forth. Something made us not support it, but I have forgotten what. But I know we discussed it a lot within the group. I have therefore forgotten why we did not support it. No, I'm not the one who should decide what's good and what's bad gender research. In fact, there has been a lot of criticism of some gender research. I've actually read a thesis, but I don't remember the name of the one who wrote it. The name of the hit lady is the research report. It was incredibly poor, and it received massive criticism from Uppsala University as well. But it was finally approved. I read it. It was assumed, and then a conclusion was reached. That's not how research should be done. This is a rather old dissertation. But there is a newer one who has researched gender perspectives on the toilets at a train station. It was published in Svenska Dagbladet a little six months ago. I'll tell you what I think, but I'm not supposed to tell you this. But I don't think our tax money should be used for that. Everyone who read the thesis was laughing. You might think it's fun to have a gender perspective on toilet visits. But it is our tax money that goes to this. It is people who work together this money, and it is important that this money goes to good things.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-835	Mr. Old President! I can agree with Robert Stenkvist in that there may be more important or insignificant research. I still find it interesting to hear how Robert Stenkvist makes himself a spokesperson for what still exists and what is relevant and not relevant. Robert Stenkvist also referred to the field of climate research, which he claims does not relate to the same evaluation criteria as other research. These are a little strange statements. For those of us who believe in the autonomy of academia, the autonomy of academia and the science of academia, it will be a little strange if we as politicians make this kind of statement about what is essential and not essential. I want to touch on another matter and ask Robert Stenkvist a question. He says that the Swedish Democrats want to concentrate research on higher-ranking universities, as I assume you mean. This is a debate that has been brought back and forth, so you are not alone in raising the issue itself. However, a starting point for us in the Alliance was, and still is, that good research should be rewarded – research of good quality. That is also why we were interested in this issue of strategic research, because it was actually just about that. It can be operated anywhere. It is conducted at higher education institutions. It is conducted at Uppsala University, but it can also be conducted at the University of Skövde. I would like to say, for information only, that the European Union has two flagship initiatives in Sweden. One is the graphene project, which is run at Chalmers University of Technology. The second is the Human Brain Project, where researchers from the University of Skövde are participants and participants. I think it would be interesting to hear another comment from Robert Stenkvist.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-841	Mr. Old President! When it comes to climate research, I will briefly say that those were not my words – those were the words of the Swedish National Audit Office's 2012 report:2. When it comes to concentrating research in different higher education institutions, the starting point is that I have talked to people in higher education institutions, and they have said this to me. It's not about all the research. Some research may benefit from concentrating, but not all research. The research carried out at small universities is not effective, the people I have talked to mean. Some research areas may be conducted in three higher education institutions, and we would gain a great deal if we combined it at a university. We would gain from it, but two colleges would lose their research. That's where I mean the community interest takes over. However, this does not apply to all research, of course. There is, of course, research that can be carried out in so many places without losing in quality. I also said in my speech that we are investigating this. We are not going to sit and decide that this research is going to be combined there, and that research is going to be combined here, but it should be thought out and serious if we are going to merge. However, where we can profit economically by pooling research, I think we should do so instead of having some principle that all higher education institutions should have as much research as possible. We believe that this principle is more important than the public interest and the effectiveness of research. However, we should not start any massacres at higher education institutions when it comes to research.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-845	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Center Party's reservation No 6 and also pointing out that we, the Alliance, have two common specific opinions that are well worth looking at. We are in a period right now where we are waiting very much for what is to come and what is to be presented in the upcoming research bill from the government. There will hopefully be a great focus on research in the coming six months and a discussion of both what it should contain and what expectations we have on it. I'm excited about it. In fact, I would like to quote a good colleague, Thomas Strand, who is sitting here in the Chamber and has not yet been given the floor. He said yesterday a very wise thing: Working on research issues is like being very interested in sports – every four years the Olympics will come, and every four years there will also be a research bill. Those were wise words from my colleague. I would also like to highlight what was done during the period when the Alliance ruled. An important part is the increased resources for research and innovation. From the time the Alliance took over power in 2006 to now, 2016, the resources for research and innovation have increased by 9 billion. These are very important bets. However, there are challenges in the field of research. The OECD released last winter a report linked to just how much we get out of the investments we make in research and innovation, where it was pointed out that although we have invested more money we have not got more benefit. This is a crucial issue and the most important question I and the Center Party are looking at in the context of the forthcoming research bill, that is, how we can get more benefit from the money invested. There are several parts we need to focus on, Mr. Old President. One is precisely quality in the research that is being carried out and that it is quality that is to be rewarded. Just as Betty Malmberg highlighted in the line shift, it is extremely important that it is quality that is in focus. I believe that the centralisation governor from the Swedish Democrats is poor. Instead, we need to focus on quality, and that is not for us politicians here to decide. I would also like to highlight the need for a more coherent system in Sweden and that we need to reward collaboration with the surrounding society. There needs to be predictability in the research system, but it should also be transparent. In the research report we are debating today, linked to the motion for a resolution, we have a reservation. It is reservation No 6, which I also support, and it concerns the security of the employment of researchers – especially young researchers. Today, many graduate students disappear from academia because they do not get any jobs, and it is often almost a full-time job to have to apply for the external grants. We think this is the wrong way to go to get continuity and more people who stay in academia and develop there. That is why we are pressing that there should be a more long-term approach to projects, which would create more secure employment in this sector. We hope that this is an issue that will be highlighted in the research proposal, even if we do not hear it in this report. It is also important for research and business to be more integrated and to become more realistic. It is extremely important to see how other countries are doing there. In the United States, only 6 out of the 100 most important innovations each year have come from academia. It is an important part of the forthcoming research bill, that is to say that it is also about innovations – about enabling research to become products and services that benefit more people. It is important to look at transparency, with open access, as well as creating innovation environments where researchers dare to take the step of setting up and running businesses or conveying the idea to an appropriate company that can actually create jobs and services on this basis. It is also the case, Mr President-in-Office, that small and growing companies are extremely important for creating innovation. We must ensure that even better conditions are created to enable them to do so. For our part, we see that an important part is to enable the strategic innovation programmes, but it is also about demonstrator plants and opening up for small and growing companies to actually become part of it in a better way. I would also like to highlight funding issues. For the Center Party, we believe that it was unfortunate that the government chose to remove the gift deduction, which allowed people to donate money tax-free to research and innovation. I think it is an important part if we are to be a competitive nation for research. Private investment in Sweden has significantly decreased in terms of research and innovation. We are talking about state research funds linked, above all, to academia, and that is extremely important. However, we must not forget that research and innovation are much more than state funds can provide. Mr. Old President! I would like to conclude by saying that it is important that we have an increased focus on quality and that we see opportunities throughout the country. We need to create the conditions for the smaller universities to specialise and become even better in those areas where they are already strong. I look forward with excitement to future research discussions, precisely in view of the expectations of the upcoming research bill – both here in Parliament and in the surrounding society.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-856	Mr. Old President! As many have said before, we are now waiting here in Parliament for an intensive research debate in the coming years and a research bill in the autumn. At the same time, reality does not wait, but changes very quickly. Globally, we are making research progress in a wide range of areas. We are in several areas, not least technical medicine, close to major interesting breakthroughs. It's about the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence and self-learning computers. It is about virtual reality, self-driving cars, e-health, medical technology, and it is about expected breakthroughs in the fight against major diseases, on-demand services and much more. In many ways, technology drives changes in a society. It is fast, and there are quite a lot of changes ahead of us if this lands. Mr. Old President! The fact that Sweden should be at the top was one thing that the Alliance was very careful about when it comes to research policy. We set aside a lot of resources. Two major research proposals were made that moved the positions quite substantially, SEK 9 billion. We made heavy investments in research. We managed to put in place important infrastructure investments in research, such as ESS in Lund. We also thought a lot about how to make the business community want to invest in research in Sweden and make sure that there was reason to build large research investments in our country. And it was a lot about the tax system, about infrastructure and a lot of other things. Unfortunately, I see that the current government does not yet have the same focus. It hasn't quite impressed. There has been a lot about shifting focus away from quality to quantity in the university and in research, and I think it is very unfortunate if Sweden will continue to have the ambition to stay on top. You cannot just look at research policy alone, because basically it is about people and getting people to invest in a research career, getting talented and prominent researchers from other countries to want to come to Sweden and do their work here. It's about resources for research. It is about good terms of employment, as Fredrik Christensson said earlier, about career paths for researchers and to feel a security and opportunity for development. It's about equality. It is about mobility between different universities, universities and research facilities. It is about what cultural life is around to create creativity and new thoughts. It's about security. It's about values in society, because in a society that has narrow values, it's hard to think broad thoughts. It is also about succeeding in being attractive to foreign researchers in a world where many people invest in attracting talent and daring to invest in quality, because it is ultimately quality that attracts most people to engage in a country's research. The government has done a lot of things in higher education policy and research policy that seem negative, and we see a little ambition and a low commitment so far. I hope that the research bill will be better. But this is not just about it – I think Betty Malmberg clearly noted the shortcomings that exist in the government's research policy so far – but it is also about economic policy in general. If we are to succeed in becoming a high-class research country and be one of the leading in the world, it is quite a matter of ensuring that the general conditions for living and working in this country, both as an individual and as an entrepreneur, are very good. The economic policy that the government is now pursuing does not help to lift Sweden as a research country. Mr. Old President! It is true that technology is currently driving development, but it would be a big and serious mistake to forget the area of humanities and social sciences simply because technological and natural advances look so attractive at the moment. It's about people having to be able to orient themselves. It is about society having to be able to orient itself, and it becomes most important in times when society changes very quickly. There are sometimes three main knowledge bases in a society and in the research society: the scientific and medical knowledge base, the instrumental and economic knowledge base and the humanistic and social science knowledge base. Sometimes we deal with them individually, and sometimes we even see that there is competition between them. Sometimes we devalue one for the benefit of the other, and this happens not least when it comes to the humanities when you call it a hobby activity that is not very important. I believe that all three bases are very important and reinforce each other. It is interesting to consider how they relate to each other and how they relate to each other. We may not be able to choose one or the other, but we need to develop society's research and knowledge in all areas and try to find the balance that is needed. Not least, it becomes important when technology and natural sciences change rapidly that humanities and social science research also follow. A clear example of this is that today a huge number of new ideas are being developed about self-governing cars in California, but the California legislation does not allow them to be tested in reality. In some way it shows how important it is that the different knowledge bases manage to balance each other and develop together in order to strengthen each other. Mr. Old President! The Liberals have three reservations in this report. This concerns the strategic research areas that the Alliance Government introduced in 2009 to increase and improve the long-term conditions for research. These are research schools for socio-economicists, which we believe should be introduced in order to highlight the status of this profession and its connection with research. Social secretaries should be given the opportunity to take part-time doctoral studies while remaining at their workplace. This applies to fourth-generation nuclear research facilities. For the winning of time, Mr. Old President, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation No. 2.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-871	Mr. Old President! Now we have listened to representatives of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals, and they have all emphasised in one way or another the importance of research. I, too, can agree with this statement. Sweden will be a leading knowledge and research nation. And I'm pretty sure the next speaker after me, Larry Söder, will also say it in one way or another. The previous speakers have stressed that research provides new knowledge and insights that help us to better understand the world in which we live. That is why it is important to have free and independent research that increases our knowledge. We have also received contributions that emphasise the importance of increased collaboration between academia, industry and the public sector. We agree that research and innovation policy should promote Swedish participation in the main international knowledge development. This is how we can best meet the global societal challenges. It is also the way forward if we are to promote a competitive Swedish industry. On all of this, we are fairly in agreement. Mr. Old President! I would like to add another component, which I think Christer Nylander was a bit concerned with, and that is that the research should be in the service of education. Through increased knowledge and new insights, we gain a deeper understanding of ourselves and the world in which we live. Research should be a tool for free thought and critical voice. Therefore, we need fearless and committed researchers who challenge our way of thinking and acting. In this way, research becomes a defence for democracy and a tool for progressive social development. I reacted a little to what Christer Nylander just said. I also reacted to what some others said, but I'm thinking about Christer Nylander right now. He claimed that we Social Democrats have a focus on moving from quality to quantity in research. Then I thought, what does Christer Nylander have to say? It is still a bourgeois research budget in 2016. Christer Nylander also said that we have done negative things. Then name the negative things we have done in research! It's easy to throw out some claims, but do they have bearings in reality? I can't think of anything negative. We have a bourgeois budget in 2016. It is only 2017 and beyond that that we have to put budgets in the field of research, which we hope we can get a consensus on as far as possible. Fredrik Christensson quoted me; I thank him for that. Sometimes, then, I think some wise thoughts. For those of us who are interested in sports, there are further highlights; we also have the European Championship football. You can certainly mention some other sports as well. It is important to focus on research, especially every four years. In a way, this debate is an exercise for the big battle – I don't mean as bad as it sounds – but the big debate that we get when the bill comes in the autumn. We notice in the specific opinions that several parties flag important issues, and I am sure that many of the reservations we have today will come back in this autumn's debate. The government is now preparing the forthcoming proposal for research. It will be about research, of course, innovation and to some extent higher education related to research. The policy put forward by the Government in the Research Bill extends until 2026, with a special focus on the investments made in 2017 – 2020. The Prime Minister's first declaration of government contained some basic priorities that set out some important starting points in a future research bill. There is reason to repeat them, because they give answers to some of the reservations and to why we do not meet them. Sweden should be a leading research nation. Young researchers' conditions will be improved. It is also said that a new research proposal will have a ten-year perspective, that the proportion of female professors will increase and that the research grants will be distributed equally and that the basic grants for research will be prioritised. Betty Malmberg was rather critical of the Social Democrats not thinking long-term. But Stefan Löfven stood here in the Chamber almost a year and a half ago and said that the next research bill should have a ten-year perspective. So we think long-term when it comes to research. All the things I have listed are long-term and not just for a year. The Moderates propose seven years, and I think there is a certain nuance of seven and ten years when we talk about a long-term perspective. Mr. Old President! Allow me, for a few minutes, to make a few further comments on some of the reservations in today's report. Let me start with reservation No 4 of the Moderates where the collaboration between life sciences and care research is addressed. The motion says that the research companies have had difficulties in accessing healthcare for research into new treatments, such as new medicines or medical technologies, and that health professionals who have ambitions for research have not always been given the opportunity to do so. Collaboration between the life sciences and medical technology industry, academia and healthcare must be developed in order to make healthcare opportunities available for research. ..................................................... I agree that there is a need for increased collaboration between academia, healthcare and business. However, the lack of cooperation described by the motion has not occurred since the 2014 elections. We have seen this trend and this problem for eight years of alliance. I note that the Socialist-led government has also seen the problem and has already begun work to strengthen collaboration between academia, health care and business. Let me briefly mention three things. Firstly, the Government has set up a national coordinator for life sciences, with the task of stimulating increased collaboration between academia, industry and health care. The government has also set up an advisory body with representatives from the sector to assist the coordinator in developing an agenda for the life sciences sector. Secondly, in December the government presented an initiative for a national programme for protein research, method development and production of biological drugs. This bet is made together with Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation and Astra Zeneca. Over eight years, these three players together invest almost SEK 1 billion to develop Swedish life science. Thirdly, the Government's Innovation Council has identified life science as a high priority area. According to the Minister responsible, this will be reflected in the forthcoming research bill. Section 5 of the Center Party deals with the allocation of resources to research. The exerciser writes, "The Center Party is the guarantor of higher education institutions throughout the country. A focus on the smaller universities is also needed in the future. It concludes with the following statement: ..................................................... It is interesting to note that the Center Party says that it wants to protect the smaller universities. When we said the same thing in opposition over the eight years with the Alliance, we never got any support from the Center on this issue. On the contrary, the large, substantial flows of research funds went to the major universities. But we Social Democrats are not far-sighted. I think we can find a good tone of conversation and make sure we get a fairer distribution system, as the Center wants. Let me emphasise that it is not a question of taxing the large universities on resources. However, if we increase the basic appropriations, there should be room for a fairer system. I welcome the Center for further discussion on this. I also find that there is a consensus with the Center Party on reservation number 6. Like the government, you want to improve the security of employment for researchers and invest in clear career paths. You also want to increase the mobility of researchers between academia and companies. We have also lifted this up in the past, but we hardly received 100% support from the Centre Party under the alliance government. Recently, the research career investigation has presented its proposals, which is why we have the opportunity to have a fruitful collaboration with the Center to strengthen the position of younger researchers. Mr. Old President! We need a comprehensive and long-term policy and a common understanding of how research and innovation policy is to be shaped. We simply need to think beyond four-year intervals. It's about taking out the compass direction for ten years ahead. Then we should agree on some fundamentally important starting points and conditions that give higher education institutions, research councils, research institutes, academia, industry and the public sector long-term and sustainable rules of play. This would benefit Sweden, Swedish industry and Swedish welfare. All the stakeholders are nodding to this. I hope that we can meet up with such a fruitful dialogue on the long-term direction of research. It would benefit education, research and innovation. Mr. Old President! I support the proposal in the report.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-901	Mr. Old President! There are some things that we agree on, Thomas Strand, and I always appreciate Thomas Strand's good-natured tone. But there are also significant differences, and I am surprised that Thomas Strand did not mention what I said during my speech. It was precisely long-term that the alliance government introduced through, for example, investments in strategic research areas. It gave long-termness, it gave risk-taking and there were quite wide shifts in the research profiles that were stated. When the government does not even comply with what the research funders think should be done with these strategic research areas, it is surprising. At this point, it is also very worrying, because the wrong signals are being sent out to the sector. What is really essential? Then I'd like to come to the concept of quality. Thomas Strand rallied a lot with Christer Nylander about this, but that is precisely the concept that I miss in the Social Democrats' previous moves around research. We can agree to take out a compass direction, be it in seven or ten years. But Thomas Strand misses out on some of the Moderates' arguments: we also want to plug in the EU Framework Programme, where we have a lot of money to collect. It runs for seven years, and therefore it would have been very important to be able to take advantage of them and go overboard to get the most research funding to Sweden.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-906	Mr. Old President! Betty Malmberg cut quite heavily on the Social Democrats in her speech on research, quality issues and long-term sustainability. But I may very well have a good conversational tone with the Moderates as well and believe that we can find common ground. As far as long-term and strategic research areas are concerned, we had no problem with them at all. We thought that strategic research areas were good and that certain priority areas were identified. What we, and not only we, but also the higher education institutions, were critical of was that you regulated quite thoroughly in many sub-areas. I think strategic initiatives are good, but one should avoid going into too much detail. It is for the academy to handle in collaboration with the surrounding community. Then I have to say that I have listened to Helene Hellmark Knutsson several times, and I do not think she has ever missed saying that research should be of the highest quality. I can't remind myself of that. Even such a small person as I usually say when I appear, and I often say it, that research must be of high quality. I therefore object to Betty Malmberg claiming that we are not talking about quality issues, and that is also why I cut a little bit at Christer Nylander, because I believe that we Social Democrats stand for us to be world leaders in research and of high quality. We can't give in to that. Let us discuss whether it should be seven or ten years, even if the Prime Minister has presented a ten-year perspective in the government declaration itself.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-911	Mr. Old President! Good tone is always wonderful, Thomas Strand, but what I am passionate about is also that we should achieve the good quality of research. There it is undoubtedly the case that the tools in the form of redistributions made by the Alliance Government in order to raise and reward the best research have now been removed, despite the fact that we have a current bill that is in place. We cannot ignore this! I also want to get into detailed regulation in strategic research areas. As far as life science is concerned, we agree. We do not need to discuss the importance of investing in life science and collaboration in this area in Sweden, but I have two concerns here. The first is that the majority text is, in fact, only about the measures taken by the Alliance Government to try to overcome the problems. What the Alliance did not do was appoint this national life science coordinator. The second is the protein research that Thomas Strand also brings up, and then I want to disconnect: he says that we must not have too much detailed regulation, but now we will go in and invest in protein research – only! 340 million is spent on this. The majority come from the Wallenberg Foundation, but what is this if not detailed regulations? I have to say that here we will probably have to link back to the previous argumentation. It may be so well that this is a real effort to make, but when you questioned research on cancer areas as too detailed, then I must raise a finger of caution regarding protein research.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-915	Mr. Old President! First of all, I just want to say that we can certainly discuss this with relations with the EU Framework Programme. That is an important issue. I don't think we're gonna split up there. When it comes to quality issues and the SEK 300 million that Betty Malmberg is now talking about, I would recommend her to sit down with Fredrik Christensson and discuss that issue. The Center Party wants us to review the allocation of resources and also support the smaller ones. We have three pots. It is for the major universities, for the new universities and for the higher education institutions in order for us to get more justice. So have a discussion with Fredrik Christensson on this issue! When I described the initiative together with the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation and Astra Zeneca, I know very well that the government is investing 320 million, I think it is. The rest comes from the private sector, if you say so. This shows how important it is to have good collaboration between state, industry and academia so that it can be achieved. You could say that this initiative is really about life science and biological drugs. I don't find it very detailed. Then researchers should go further in research on this, and then you should not control, so I think that criticism may not be so relevant really. I think it is important that we can have a good tone of conversation, because in general and in many ways we very much agree that research is so essential for Swedish society, Swedish industry and Swedish welfare. That is why we should be able to meet in the broad outlines. The fact that it may differ in detail is one thing, but I believe that the main features are there, and I therefore welcome the fact that, in the light of this autumn's debate, we can have a tone that is fruitful on this issue.
i-f8730dcccc0bf9c9-920	Mr. Old President! What do 937 ninth graders in Borås have in common with Örebro University Hospital? I can tell you that the common thing is not that all 937 ninth graders had to go to the university hospital. It's something more obvious than that. Both groups take part in the research in order to create better health. Nineth graders sleep less than what's good for the body, and in all parameters, girls have worse results than guys. This is shown in a study that Malin Jacobsson and Anna Hederström have compiled in their thesis at the University of Borås. This is serious. When young people live with high stress and poor sleep, it is easy to end up in a spiral of mental illness. Based on this, there are now plans to launch a research project aimed at tackling the problem. Students' health is underestimated and an area that we need much more research about, and therefore I was happy when I found thoughts about a research project on this. We Christian Democrats are trying to raise the importance of pupil health in school, and of course we believe that more research into the life situation of children and young people is beneficial in many different ways. What about Ö Rebro University? Setting the right diagnosis quickly can be vital. Örebro University Hospital now changes X-ray routines in abdominal examinations and in lumbar spine examinations for indoor and acute patients. Delaying the correct diagnosis when investigating abdominal pain can have vital consequences. This can be avoided by X-raying the patient with low-dose X-rays instead of with traditional smooth X-rays. A research study shows that it becomes better and safer diagnostics when the patient receives low-dose X-rays. The radiation is lower than in ordinary X-rays, which have about ten times higher radiation. The examination is rapid and the patient does not need a contrast agent, which must be given in the case of a smooth X-ray. These are two examples that show that research can be very helpful and should not be underestimated. Research requires integrity and the ability to think both new as well as free and sometimes uncomfortable. Ethics is an important part of higher education and research. The business must be conducted with respect for our common values. For me, research is about both creating a better and healthier life for us as people and creating opportunities for new companies to grow. Recently I met a researcher named Joel Johansson, Ph.D. in Experimental Physics. He told us about his research on supernovas and what it can teach us about the history of the universe. It is not research that we can expect in the near future to change our way of life or give some large companies the opportunity to develop. But he made me realize two things, namely that not all research needs to focus on results in the near future. With wide brush strokes, we can create opportunities for the future, while never knowing what you will discover. In addition, research of today should and should be broad cooperation not only within one country but also between countries. We need to look beyond our differences to create the most benefit in research. It's a benefit we can't always see immediately. I do not want to make people sad either, which is why I am doing exactly as Thomas Strand wanted, namely that research is important to the nation of Sweden. The goal of the government's research on its website is for Sweden to be a prominent research nation, where research and innovation are conducted with high quality and contribute to society's development and the competitiveness of the business community. It is an indecent sentence that has much else to be desired in clarity. But we'll have to work on that together. One clarity I would like to see is, for example, the competitiveness of business. Sweden is a knowledge nation that should invest in research that increases competitiveness significantly. What is closely linked to research according to the Government's objectives are the companies. This is a good business environment and a climate that allows investments to be made even if the outcome is sometimes uncertain and important. The possibility of patenting is also extremely important for companies. Therefore, it is also important for Sweden as a nation to retain research in Sweden. This also applies to companies. The BEPS work in Europe and also within Sweden's borders means that much of the research in the future may end up somewhere else than just in Sweden. It is therefore important that the tax base remains within Sweden's borders and that it can be reported that research and development also creates profits for companies. Otherwise, Sweden risks losing much as a research nation. The number of international patent applications from Sweden last year was 3,925, compared to the US 61,492 or Japan 42,459. Sweden is in tenth place in the number of applications. I think that is good for a small nation. National patent applications have been a bit sloping in number, but it may also be because Sweden has become a little better with international patent applications. The number of patent applications reflects both research opportunities and companies' opportunities, which for our part as a nation is important for the future. We Christian Democrats want to prioritise research with the combination of general basic research and to invest in strategic research. Both are necessary to reconcile long-term and more closely related needs and opportunities. But the Christian Democrats want funding for growth-enhancing research and innovation to be given priority. In this way, life science will be an important strategic priority that we want to see more of. A large part of the funding cost for research and development is ongoing in the form of salaries to researchers. Therefore, it is important to keep the employer's contribution down and review every tax increase based on the benefit. The Alliance parties continue to support the development of a strategy for life sciences and wish to stress the importance of support for Swedish research in this area. In view of the forthcoming research and innovation bill that will be presented this autumn, I now thank you for the floor.
