i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-0	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I met Swedish entrepreneurs and employees in the taxi industry. We met because they wanted to describe their work situation and the conditions under which they work. They described social dumping, a social dumping that many people can't believe exists in our country, working hours that are in line with what we had in Sweden at the end of the last century, wages that you can't make a living on, insecurity that permeates everyday life. One of the drivers looked at me and described how everything else in society gets more expensive but his salary drops every year. He needs to work eleven, twelve or thirteen hours a day, often seven days a week, to have a chance to support himself and his family. If we didn't have knowledge, if we didn't have statistics, we might think that their stories are exaggerated. If this were a completely new phenomenon, we would have believed that it was about individual, unique examples, unique events. The problem is, it's not like that. Their stories were neither exaggerated nor unique. This is part of the reality of the Swedish labour market 2016. Mr President, I would like to This reality – this departure from the Swedish model – is not the main effect of private consumers' behaviour. It is not an effect of the free market. It is an effect of conscious political decisions. Mr President, I would like to State, municipality and county councils buy goods and services for more than SEK 600 billion per year. It is a fifth of Sweden's economy. In the taxi industry, it accounts for half of the purchases, half of the consumption. It is precisely these purchases that have caused social dumping for Swedish employees and entrepreneurs today. It is not the case that contracting authorities are not aware of how their behaviour affects the circumstances of those who work in the activities. Had Stockholm County Council decided that requirements for conditions under Swedish collective agreements would be complied with in the service contracts, that dumping of Swedish wages and working conditions would not be a competitive advantage in the procurement, then the riders and drivers I met yesterday would have had a different reality. The logic of some contracting authorities is that procurement must be as cheap as possible: the lower the salary of those who work, the more value for taxpayers' money – that it is right to allow companies with lower wage costs to have a competitive advantage. Mr President, I would like to The price is never as high as when we don't think anyone pays. But someone's always paying. The Swedish Parliament can solve this. The Swedish parliament can and should stand up for Swedish wages and conditions on the Swedish labour market. We will be told today that it is not possible. We will be told that European law puts an end to this. But of course it can be done – if we want to. The problem is that in Sweden we are more Catholic than the Pope when it comes to the implementation of EU law. This is evident in other EU countries, which also have EU law. It is there that demands can be made on fair terms. Why should we be ashamed of the Swedish model? People will say that we will discriminate against Swedish companies if we make demands. Mr President, I would like to It is today that serious Swedish companies are discriminated against when wages and conditions below Swedish levels are a competitive advantage. To anyone who doesn't believe this, I have a tip. It is to send a signal to people in the Swedish haulage industry.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-10	Mr President, I would like to Those who are going to buy a dishwasher for their own home often do not buy the first best. It compares prices and controls water consumption and that it suits its own needs. In the same way, it must be with the purchases that we make together. We're going to compare the prices. We will check the quality, environment and working conditions of those who manufacture our goods and deliver our services. We will make responsible purchases of computers for schools, cleaning services for hospitals and car pools with government agencies. In practical terms, this is done by making demands in the procurement process, by making it easier for as many people as possible to participate in the competition and by following up and controlling what is then delivered. Mr President, I would like to We fully share the Government's ambition that we should have fair conditions on the public market. We should be aware of consumers. Unserious companies should never be allowed to compete out serious companies by using our tax money in an unholy way. 27 SEK per hour for employees in procured contracts is a horror example that is usually highlighted by the Minister. Regardless of what opinions he usually wants to attribute to us in different contexts, I would like to make it very clear that we believe that it is neither fair nor reasonable. It is the result of rather poor procurement and also of a lack of control by the authorities. But, Mr President, the answer to the fact that there are unfair conditions in public procurement cannot be spelled out unspeakable conditions for all the country's job creators. To legislate on requirements under collective agreements is to choose a very simple path that leads us wrong. The easy way is a road that strikes indiscriminately and which mainly affects small companies, those that are Sweden's job engine, those that make up 99% of all companies. Mr President, I would like to So the solution to the problems is not primarily about legislation. What is needed is better competence of contracting authorities, a willingness to make demands and a ability to follow up. It is about better knowing and making use of the legislation that is already in place. Contractors already have a clear obligation to question too low bids. If you don't get a good explanation for a suspicious low bid, you should reject it. It is a tool that is used far too little in Swedish procurement today. Another area that is often lacking is follow-up. If a company wins a school food procurement and promises a certain quality of the chicken, that quality should also be maintained throughout the procurement period. We're just gonna get what we're paying for. If we do not check that this happens, we also run the risk of rogue companies competing out seriously. Contracts which are not held shall be terminated. Many contracting authorities have become good at monitoring, but too many have no follow-up at all. We need to get better here. Mr President, I would like to We live in an increasingly globalised and integrated world. In a tougher international trade, Swedish companies must be able to operate under competitive conditions. If Swedish companies succeed, more people can set the clock in the morning to go to work. Against this background, it is quite incomprehensible that the government should put forward a proposal that discriminates against Swedish job creators compared with foreign companies. Some of the requirements that the government wants to impose on Swedish companies cannot be imposed on those who use labour from other countries when they deliver jobs here in Sweden. These include, for example, insurance and pensions. It does not allow EU law, and that is very clear. Mathematics is simple. If Swedish jobs are punished, there will be fewer Swedish jobs. Then, of course, the question arises: Is the government not aware of this? Well, unfortunately, it is. The government itself writes in its considerations: There are factual reasons for a regulation that allows posted employers to be effectively treated more favourably in a procurement than other suppliers. The other suppliers are the Swedish companies, those that create jobs for us here in Sweden. This is an incomprehensible act by the Swedish Government, a government that is already delayed with the new procurement legislation. And I have to say, I'm a little surprised by the minister's focus. In six days' time it will be the deadline for the implementation of the EU directives. The regulatory framework is therefore greatly delayed, and the Law Council has had historically extensive criticism. Instead of focusing on improving this proposal and making sure that the regulatory framework is in place, however, the focus is on completely different rules which we do not need to put in place at all and which also lead to fewer jobs. Mr President, I would like to We can never support a proposal that deliberately leads to fewer jobs in Sweden. Today it emerged that the Prime Minister has a new job plan. It is based on an election pledge from April 2014. He then said: If I can form a government, I will demand a reply from every minister and every authority manager if a decision means more jobs or not. This proposal does not aim to create more jobs. This makes it difficult for Sweden's job creators. Abolishing the proposal for requirements under collective agreements would be a very good first step for the Prime Minister in his so-called job plan.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-28	Mr President, I would like to The issue of workers' conditions and working conditions in Sweden is among the most important issues for us Swedish democrats. Precisely stopping wage dumping and unfair conditions of competition is something we are constantly working on, and that is also the basis for us as a party constantly growing among workers and now have become the largest party among, for example, LO members. While the other parties are fighting over who is the most workers' party, our party is the party that is really represented by workers. We ourselves know what it has been like in the real labour market. We have stood side by side with people who have worked for a fraction of our wages. We have also seen with our own eyes how people with support jobs have taken over the jobs of ordinary workers. There are several types of competition against workers' wages. It is about competition from people who are here temporarily, from Estonia and Poland, for example, and who are to pay taxes in their home country. But it is also a question of more domestic unfair competition. I am thinking here of the generous contributions that are being made to some people in order for them to get a job. Too often companies put in systems to use people who have different forms of support to keep the prize down and thus win the procurement. Mr President, I would like to Competition from people who do not pay taxes in Sweden forces down prices and bids from Swedish entrepreneurs. Many of us workers have engaged us precisely in the Swedish Democrats because of the problems we have seen at our own workplace, where Swedish jobs have been knocked out by workers from low-wage countries who do not pay any tax on their income in Sweden. The fact that companies that do not pay taxes in Sweden do not compete with Swedish entrepreneurship by keeping a lower price is important to preserve the welfare model that we have. We as politicians cannot first decide on increased taxes for companies and people in Sweden and then opt out of the companies and people who are actually forced to pay this high tax on the grounds that it will be cheaper to hire a company that pays a lower tax, or perhaps does not pay any tax at all. In fact, it is hypocrisy to do so. Mr President, I would like to Just as in the procurement of all food, it must be possible to make demands that the animals have had decent conditions and that the requirements we impose on Swedish farmers are complied with by those who supply food to our schools, our hospitals and our retirement homes in Sweden, it must also be possible to make demands that the workers have decent conditions and decent wages. So we want to see demands that really help the conditions for the workers. The Swedish democrats are fundamentally in favour of what is called the white job model, but with some reservations. It is important that we get to the point of limiting and ensuring that our common resources will never be used to pay out black wages and exploit vulnerable workers in an improper way. Claims for equivalent contractual wages according to the union as a minimum may of course be required, but not for the company to have an agreement with the union. That's two separate things. Unfortunately, the trade unions do not speak for all workers and, moreover, most unions themselves have made it clear that they do not want to speak for all workers. I am thinking here of the exclusion of political workers in trade unions and the ban on choosing representatives in trade unions as representatives or as positions of trust if they have political involvement in the wrong party. This, of course, makes it impossible for unions to be seen as workers' independent controllers, and it also disqualifies them from gaining more transparency in companies than they already have. It is more natural if the control of the companies is carried out by someone who is more independent, such as someone who is appointed by the buyer. If a municipality or the state makes a procurement, we as a buyer should have the right to check that we have actually received what we have ordered. Of course, we must be able to check that we have received what we have paid for. Mr President, I would like to In order to make it possible to make procurements with requirements for more than price, there is a need to introduce a main contractor's responsibility, i.e. that the winner of the procurement must also ensure that the subcontractors who are engaged comply with the same requirements. Otherwise, there is an obvious risk that the main contractor will use subcontractors to circumvent the requirements of the procurement, which of course must never be accepted. If we have made certain demands, they must be kept by everyone who performs work during this procurement. Mr President, I would like to Basically, procurement is about us being able to use our common consumer power. Just as when we are private individuals, we can use our consumer power to influence the market, we must also be able to do so as a municipality or state. I myself only buy Swedish meat because I want to support the rules that we have set up for Swedish farmers. If we are aware of consumers, we can influence a market that is reluctant to be guided by political decisions. In municipal and government procurements, we will act as conscious consumers. We are going to make demands on the working environment and on wage levels, so that competition from rogue players in the market disappears, requirements that provide better conditions for the workers in real life.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-41	Mr President, I would like to It is an important debate that we have in this House today. It is ultimately about how political decisions can contribute to ecological and social sustainability and whether a politician likes that idea or not. We in the Green Party believe that this is a matter of course. The money that the public has at its disposal must always be used in the best possible way to achieve the social objectives that we have set ourselves. If we want to improve the environment and people's living conditions, we cannot use the money we have at our disposal to steer towards other goals. Historically, public procurement has not attracted much interest. Contractors in municipalities and county councils were long regarded as administrative staff who would buy things without making too much noise. However, as more and more public expenditure goes to procured activities, interest has increased. For a long time, the view was that procurement is only about buying in goods and services at the lowest possible price. Setting environmental and social requirements was neither desirable nor possible. Yet, in the 1980s and 1990s, public procurement paved the way for removing, for example, chlorine bleaching of paper. There has been considerable confusion with the Public Procurement Act. After that, the European Court of Justice made it clear in the early 2000s that it was allowed to impose environmental requirements even though it meant higher prices. Since then, the trend has continued with environmental requirements in an increasing number of procurements. The Environmental Management Council was for a long time the world leader in setting relevant environmental requirements that were developed in close cooperation with companies in the industry in question. Nevertheless, the bourgeois government chose to close the Environmental Management Council. Mr President, I would like to A large number of studies and reports in recent years have highlighted the importance of setting environmental and social requirements. In Anders Wijkman's report Good business – a strategy for sustainable public procurement from 2013, social and environmental considerations are highlighted as natural components of the procurement process. The investigator notes that public procurement, properly used, can have an important dimension as a tool for strengthening social cohesion in society. By using requirements for environmental and social considerations in procurement, we can effectively use tax funds to create a fairer, more equal and more sustainable society. This approach is now also supported by the EU. The directives currently being introduced in Sweden contain rules that make it easier to set requirements that aim to achieve common objectives such as the protection of the environment, the fight against climate change and social inclusion. Requirements for the environment or labour law, if properly imposed, may not only achieve a good economic result but also allow society to develop in the right direction with more environmentally friendly products and services and workers working under good conditions. Mr President, I would like to One important reason for demanding good working conditions is that it creates fair competition in the market. Otherwise, if the only way to win a contract is through a low price, there is a clear risk that serious companies wishing to provide fair working conditions will choose not to even submit a tender. It can of course lead to serious companies becoming more difficult to achieve profitability, and it reduces competition. Public purchasers have a great responsibility to ensure that serious companies continue to participate in public procurement. It is, of course, possible to make such demands today. However, the current voluntary rules cannot be considered sufficient. Then we would not have heard such examples as we have now. Contracts are all too rarely subject to labour law requirements. This justifies the inclusion of clearer requirements for this in future legislation. The Green Party's view is that procurement must, to a much greater extent than it is today, take social considerations into account. It can not only be the lowest price that determines which supplier wins a procurement. For this reason, both environmental and labour law requirements should be tightened up in the new procurement laws. Mr President, I would like to One important aspect in developing procurement as a tool for sustainable social development is the follow-up. It is not uncommon that good and relevant requirements are made in procurements that are formulated in such a way that it becomes difficult and costly to follow up. That is why the follow-up work needs to be constantly developed and improved. This can be done partly by making the procurement more strategic, as we are now seeing, and partly by giving the Procurement Authority a clear responsibility to support methodological development for follow-up. It is also important that the management of municipalities, county councils and state authorities are made aware of the importance of resources being spent not only on carrying out good procurement, but also that resources are needed to follow up the contracts that are signed. In conclusion, therefore, if we are to succeed in the sustainable transition, we must also allow all public money to be spent properly. The fact that procurement is not just about buying goods and services at the lowest price, but that procurement can also have a positive impact on society is now obvious to most people. In addition, when procurement covers as much as SEK 600 – 800 billion per year, it also becomes clear what can be done by using public procurement in a smart and strategic way, namely to significantly strengthen efforts to achieve other goals such as better environment and greater social sustainability.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-51	Mr President, I would like to Dear friends! It is not without considering where the cooperation government really went. Now there's a whole different sound in the bark. Consensus and to jointly find broad solutions are not left in the government's vocabulary at all anymore. Now it is conflict and struggle that applies. There's something I'm sorry about. There is also something that will be the fall of the government, not least on the subject that we are now discussing. We can look at the procurement issues. If we clear away the rhetoric and the high tone and look at what the government has announced what it will propose, there are a number of major problems with that. This does not mean that procurement does not have to be improved. Previous speakers have pointed out the absurdity of setting a certain quality standard in terms of, for example, animal welfare and quality in our food production, and then the state, municipalities and county councils buy in at a completely different quality and a completely different price. It doesn't make any sense. Here, the state, municipalities and county councils must improve significantly. We now also see that the government proposal, as it has announced it will present, will put small and growing companies at a disadvantage by requiring collective agreements. It will be associated with a lot of hassle, and it will of course go beyond the overall 60% of Sweden's small businesses that have not signed collective agreements. We see that the changes announced by the government will put Swedish companies at a disadvantage vis-à-vis foreign competitors. A number of requirements, including those relating to insurance and occupational pensions, are those that cannot be imposed on foreign competitors. Swedish companies that participate in a procurement are disadvantaged vis-à-vis their foreign competitors. This is something that cannot be accepted. It should be seen in context. It is part of the government's unilaterally flagged declaration of war in defence of the Swedish model. But the question is: What is meant by the Swedish model? I did not believe my ears, or for that matter my eyes, when I realized that it is now suddenly part of the Swedish model that hundreds of public purchasers at local, regional and national level will suddenly interpret and value collective agreements. Since when did it become part of the Swedish model, do you ask yourself? It's not that, and hopefully it never will be. It is a highly ill-considered product that the government announces that it will present. Unfortunately, the consensus and cooperation, which would be the word of the government, seem to have disappeared. Now it is conflict and struggle that applies. It's clear. Then let me be equally clear in return. If the government puts forward a bill that puts Swedish small businesses at a disadvantage vis-à-vis their major competitors, the Center Party will not be behind that bill. If the government puts forward a bill that puts Swedish companies at a disadvantage vis-à-vis their foreign competitors, it is a bill that the Alliance will not support. If the government puts forward a bill that means that Swedish small businesses and Swedish entrepreneurship as a whole are disadvantaged against their larger and foreign colleagues, it is a bill that I hope and believe will not gather support in the Swedish parliament. It's going to fall. My call to the government is simply to redo and do the right thing. Present a product characterised by the cooperation that the government at least initially claimed to stand for. Then it may well be a product that goes through and that means that the Swedish procurement is a little better and that above all gathers support in the Swedish parliament.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-58	Mr President, I would like to Barely two weeks ago I stood at a parking lot outside Bromma airport and watched a number of taxi drivers gather to talk to each other about their pressured work situation and about trying to organize themselves better. Eventually they would make it to the head office of one of the companies they protested against, one of the players that dominate the taxi industry. This action, a mark by a short lay-off, was surrounded by conditions that one would think we were finished in Sweden several decades ago. Management had spread threats and rumours and said that this would be a wild strike even though there is no collective agreement and therefore no duty to peace. There were threats of lifetime shutdown from the switchboard, and leading representatives had passed by and mocked those who protested. As the culmination of this, a few days later we could watch television how the CEO of one of the companies broke a driver's cell phone when he was asked about the conditions. I think that many people in Sweden rightly think that this is unreasonable and that there are things that should be reviewed and fixed up. The companies that these drivers and road hauliers run for are not just any companies, but they have won the procurement of transport services in the Stockholm County Council. It is an agreement of well over SEK 1 billion, so here are financial muscles to make demands on the public side and make the conditions in a difficult industry a little more reasonable. But the opposite is happening in many ways. The offer has been won by a low price, and profit margins are created by pushing those who drive even harder. Hourly wages can be extremely low, and when there is no guaranteed minimum wage, it will be to work more hours to raise a decent amount of money. It involves drivers' wages, sleep, health and family life. This cannot be fixed by snapping fingers, but it should be self-evident that the public has an intention to contribute to fair conditions of competition and working conditions in their procurements, not the opposite – that the public is contributing to social dumping and to reward foam in relation to those who do the job. What did the responsible moderate politician in the county council say when the problems were noticed and it was found, among other things, that there were drivers who had driven 180 hours a month and still had to apply for support? Well, he said: It is not my job to comment on how our entrepreneurs conduct their business as long as they deliver what we have required them to deliver. That's a fantastic answer. So should people be actively turned a blind eye to being pressured and exploited? The increasingly clear moderate answer to that question seems to be: Yes. In the same interview, the responsible Moderate politician is asked to make demands in line with what is basic in the Swedish model, namely the industry's collective agreement. It will be an exquisitely sleazy answer there too: There the lawyers in Sweden are very clear that the legal situation is very unclear. Mr President, I would like to This is an illustrative background to our being here today. It should not be the case that, through the procurement process, the public sector fattens rogue corporate owners at the expense of those who do the job. It should also not be easy to hide behind claims about the legal situation. It is therefore gratifying that we have this debate, which basically deals with the importance of defending and developing the Swedish model. The Left Party was involved in concluding an agreement with the government parties after the election about the loss of profit from welfare. One of the points is procurement and collective agreements, and it is good to see that work on this is progressing. It is also telling and indeed a little tragic to see the reaction that this important and simple quest has met on the right. It is telling because it pinpoints the priorities when it comes to the use of public funds: they should go to enriching a class of owners regardless of the consequences. It is also tragic because I believe that there are many Swedes, even among those who vote for the Moderates and other bourgeois parties, who do not want to use tax funds unconditionally and in such a way that the Swedish model is undermined. I had written, I think, in my speech, but just before I came here, I saw that TCO has produced a study which shows that 80% of Moderate voters think it is very bad or rather bad that companies can win public procurement by dumping wages and working conditions. This is what it looks like, but the Moderates prefer to represent much narrower interests in the first place. It's sad to see and hear. Mr President, I would like to I have taken the community-paid part of the taxi industry as an example, but these problems are, of course, in many places, for example in the procurement of cleaning and bus services. I would like to emphasise that improved regulation does not automatically solve these problems. There are many other things that need to be fixed as well. Last today we saw that there are bad things in the Swedish Transport Administration's procurement despite requirements for subcontractors. Then what's needed? Well, better and more effective ways to follow up. Here the trade union influence has a decisive role, but of course the bourgeois parties want to see even less of that. Mr President, I would like to The starting point must be that our common resources should be used for decent working conditions and for strengthening the Swedish model, not for wage dumping and for rewarding rogue actors. The Left Party is pleased to see possible progress in this area, but apparently the former new Labour Party of the Moderates finds it difficult with things that are good for those who actually do the job. It says a lot about the Moderates. It also says a lot about the importance of clearer and better regulation.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-79	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi has today called for an up-to-date debate on the conditions for public procurement. I have my doubts as to why we have gathered here to debate a potential model of an uncertain proposal rather than a straight and clear proposal to the government. The question is whether the debate is not as much about the conditions for public procurement as the conditions for how Sweden is governed under the government of uncertainty. Are we here because the government wants to probe the terrain in an unworkable question before running to the Swedish Democrats for support? Is it a game to see which forces still hold protectionism and nationalism higher than liberalism and free trade? Let me answer the Secretary of State: this is not a game. It's about me and other small businessmen of flesh and blood. It is about how the government wants to discredit me, my company and other small businessmen because we have not become big enough to be included in the Social Democratic industrial family. It is about us small businessmen who strive to do a good job and contribute to our common welfare but who do not have a collective agreement. Does that make me a fraud? Am I a worse entrepreneur for that? Is my tax money for health care, school and care less worth for it? I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. Does the Minister of Civil Affairs think I'm a rogue entrepreneur if I haven't entered into a collective agreement? Does the Minister of Civil Affairs think I'm a worse entrepreneur than an entrepreneur with a collective agreement? In that case, what does the Minister of Civil Affairs say to all the dozens of entrepreneurs, self-employed as well as small businesses, who have no collective agreements? Mr President, I would like to The government conducts an anti-business policy, and it is done to such an extent that Spotify founders, Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon, felt obliged to write an open letter in which they threaten to move their business from Sweden unless something is done. Something must be done to ensure that companies such as Spotify and the country of Sweden do not lose and be overtaken by the fierce competition we face from the outside world. Mr President, I would like to According to figures from Entrepreneurs, 60% of SMEs have no collective agreements. This represents around 140 000 of the country's small businesses. SMEs are an important part of Sweden's economy and success and must be respected by trade unions, decision-makers and others. Some of these entrepreneurs are self-employed who have not realised the point of signing collective agreements with themselves. Others think that the employment as a form and concept belongs to the history dump and choose to run their start-up company with co-ownership colleagues. If the Minister of Civil Affairs is hostile to start-up companies, he may contact the Minister of Economic Affairs and agree on the matter. "One hand knows what the other does" – to quote the old blue train progg band. Mr President, I would like to The result, as usual with the government of uncertainty, is more uncertainty. I promise the Minister of Civil Affairs that there are few things that entrepreneurs dislike as much as uncertainty. I wonder what has happened to the Social Democrats. Could it be that the world has caught up and that you are now trying to patch and fix to keep a dream that was never under your arms? The party has evolved from a progressive party to a conservative and backward-looking party. The old Sweden with big companies and a secret intelligence service that operated with the union's good memory is over, and luckily it is. Such an approach does not last long in today's globalised world, which values adaptability, flexibility, creativity and openness to a much greater extent. The requirements for conversion have made companies smaller, and it has made them much smarter. For us Liberals, the issue of collective agreements is a question of freedom. It is about the right to engage in trade unionism – in Karl Staaffs's footsteps – but also the right to stand outside the union. It is about being able to realize your dreams through entrepreneurship and through development, about being able to create something instead of tearing down something and about seeing something grow instead of limiting. Mr President, I would like to We are the Liberals.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-93	Mr President, I would like to I would like to continue where Said Abdu concluded, that is to say with what the debate is supposed to be about today. A debate can result in two different things. Either it results in finding grain of opportunities to get along, grain of opportunities to find a broader solution in the Swedish parliament. It may also be discovered that we may be further apart than we thought before. The Social Democrats talk a lot about the Swedish model and conditions according to Swedish collective agreements. But the Green Party does not do the same. Yet they are in the same government. I would like to know whether the government agrees on what it wants to propose. Would the government suggest that we sign in to comply with the Swedish collective agreements or not? We Christian Democrats are not prepared to include it in the new law. We can see that the new law needs to be reviewed. It goes without saying that the social requirements apply. Jag is mainly concerned with the pay and working hours of the employees of the procured companies. I believe that solutions can be found for those parts so that municipalities can feel confident that the employees of the procured companies have reasonable conditions. A requirement for the Swedish collective agreements to be included in the law will mean that many are excluded from being able to bid to Swedish municipalities. I am thinking, for example, of a Swedish farmer, a family business, who in a municipality such as mine, Kungsbacka, tries to agree with the municipality in an offer to deliver potatoes to the municipality's schools. We cannot do that if we enter Swedish collective agreements as a requirement. I think that we citizens think that the proximity to businesses is more important than that things that make it more difficult should be written in. One should know that the Swedish procurement legislation aims to ensure that the public sector uses the Swedish tax funds in the best way by opening up its purchases of goods and services to competition. The purpose is good. I believe that the public sector has had a good deal of this. But it needs to be modernised. I would prefer to see the government we have instead of wanting a debate put forward a proposal to the House so that we can discuss it. I think there are many possibilities for getting along. Nevertheless, I believe that the government is a cooperation government, which allows us to come to an agreement. But you have to come to an agreement in the government first. The Swedish public sector buys services for an estimated SEK 600 billion each year, as the Social Democrats said. I think the Swedish companies want to do a lot to be involved in sharing that cake. But there are problems that we have to deal with. Many tenders are submitted in such a way as to appeal against them. The Public Procurement Act is difficult to interpret, which leads to many procurements being reviewed. 3,500 procurements per year are overtested in Sweden. In Norway and Denmark the number is 350 and 250. We need to look at this possibility so that a small number is overtested and so that there is a more straight line as to what is possible and what is not. The scope for removing low bids also needs to be made clearer. You shouldn't have to have such good knowledge to be able to turn down a low bid when it goes without saying that it doesn't work. As Christian Democrats, of course, we see that the fair conditions for employees are extremely important. However, we also believe that collective agreements are too close.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-103	Mr President, I would like to I can't. That's what we're hearing. If we put forward a proposal, the Swedish companies will be disadvantaged. It will be contrary to EU law. How's this going to go? That's what we've been hearing for 20 years. And that's what's limited our behavior. I have one news: it is today that we are disadvantaging Swedish companies. Companies offering wages and conditions below the minimum levels agreed by the Swedish parties have a competitive advantage in any procurement at the lowest price and where employees are not subject to conditions. Today, precisely today, there are certainly a number of procurements across the country. We disadvantage our own companies, which comply with collective agreements, and benefit companies that have conditions under foreign agreements or no agreements at all. That is the reality today. That is why I urge you Members to contact the haulage industry. Talk to the taxi drivers who drive taxis, the ones who drive you MPs! Listen to them, and listen to the entrepreneurs in those industries! Hear their stories about how they are disadvantaged and discriminated against! As has been said here, it is not only wage earners and entrepreneurs who are discriminated against on the basis of today's model; we are even actively discriminating against our own farmers. We demand that they have world-class animal husbandry. It costs a little more. When we then buy meat, we do not require that those conditions have been complied with. We actively discriminate against our own farmers. Now they say it's bad. For eight years, the previous government did absolutely nothing to change this. This government will ensure that we will require compliance with the Swedish animal welfare rules in connection with procurements of meat. We should not discriminate against our own farmers.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-108	If the conclusion is that we should stop discriminating against our own and stand up for our social model, stand up for our rules and conditions on our labour market, then we must also act in the labour market that prevails. That's logic. Then we must have the courage and confidence to stand up for the Swedish model, also in European contexts. We have problems with European legislation. This government said that we would act to change EU legislation on posted workers. Then the opposition said it couldn't be done. The Prime Minister ran the line, and now the Commission has started work to change the posting legislation with the aim of enabling us to have Swedish conditions and salaries for all workers working in Sweden, an equal treatment. How did the Moderates in the Labour Market Committee act when it came up? They opposed this change. We must stop being ashamed of our model of society. We can do that here. I promise that we will consider all aspects that are raised here when we present the proposal. No small and medium-sized enterprises shall be discriminated against. We will consider their special needs. That is why we are not calling for collective agreements to be signed, but for collective agreements to be complied with. We will ensure that we have a world-class follow-up. Therefore, one of the government's first decisions in the procurement field was that we started the Procurement Authority, which has one single task: to provide support to suppliers and contracting authorities on, among other things, follow-up issues. We shall have a dialogue with small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we, together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and Teknikföretagen, have started work on early dialogue for public procurement. That is how we stand up for the Swedish model. That's how we give the nicest conditions to our Swedish entrepreneurs and employees.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-115	Mr President, I would like to One thing is clear after the Social Democrats and the Left Party have made their contributions. It is that EU law and other legal aspects are completely irrelevant. Apparently, law and order are not supposed to apply here. The government must create a regulatory framework that is in line with the EU law currently in force and not the EU law it hopes to get through in a number of years' time. Or does the Minister think that this legislation is not so important that we can actually wait a few years until the process is completed in Europe? There is much talk about the Swedish model. It is a broad concept that has evolved over time. In recent times, the Social Democrats have developed it in a drastic way, to encompass almost everything the Party thinks right now. In fact, the new Swedish Social Democratic model seems to be consistently opposed to any reform that might create jobs. What has traditionally been associated with the Swedish model is the Swedish labour market model. It means that the parties themselves determine the conditions of the labour market – not us politicians. This often happens through collective agreements, but the model also includes the right not to sign collective agreements. It is simply up to the parties themselves. It's up to them to decide. Not us. This applies not least to wage levels. Despite this historical tradition, the government now wants to leave it to us politicians, through public procurement, to legislate on the conditions of the Swedish labour market by the back door. Given the size of the public sector we have, this also has a major impact. Anyone who does not obey the government will be excluded from the entire public market. They are excluded from 50 procurements per day, from SEK 600 billion per year and from one fifth of Sweden's bnp. It is extremely important to define the conditions of the Swedish labour market from a political point of view. It runs counter to the Swedish model, which is sometimes accused of us moderates wanting to abandon. In fact, it is the government that shakes the foundations of the Swedish model. But as you know, attack is often said to be the best defense. Mr President, I would like to The government sent a thick letter to the Law Council. It included a proposal for new procurement legislation. The answer they received was almost as thick, but much sharper. The directives on which the new legislation is based leave a great deal to be desired. But that does not excuse the government's proposing completely incomprehensible legislation that will make a real mess for those who create jobs and for those who buy into the public sector. The Council also criticised the scope of the proposal — 1,000 paragraphs! It is an impossible product for both buyers and companies to understand. The government should work to reduce the regulatory burden and produce a better legislative proposal. On the contrary, however, it does just the opposite by adding even more rules that impose requirements under collective agreements, at all stages – down to the smallest subcontractor. This should even apply to the individual entrepreneur without employees, perhaps an electrician who does work on a construction project. The proposal has not yet been in the Law Council, but I can imagine that they have one or two points of view. The referrals have been extremely critical. How we make our public purchases is important. Public procurement should be a responsible process that helps companies grow, which takes into account the workers and takes responsibility for each tax chandelier. Public procurement must not be allowed to become a playground for socialist projects, the real purpose of which is merely to benefit the trade unions.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-126	Mr President, I would like to I think the European Union is a little overrated as an excuse. I would like to start by saying that the Social Democrats and the Alliance are welcome to seek our support for their views. I think it goes without saying that the requirements of a procurement should be able to be made even on the basis of working conditions and working conditions, even if they cannot apply to having an agreement with a special party or a special trade union. However, it must never be the case that the requirements are based on wishes for the composition of workers based on age, gender or origin. Companies must be free to organise themselves here. In addition, demands on the origin, gender or age of workers can lead to companies being forced to discriminate when they are employed. Therefore, procurement requirements should primarily concern quality, working conditions and the working environment. One thing that I think is important for our smaller companies is that they divide procurement. In order to be able to increase competition for tenders, they need to be small enough to be of interest to a smaller company. One mistake that municipalities often make is to put too large a project into a procurement. This will make it impossible for smaller companies to compete. By dividing procurements into several pieces, competition can be increased and more companies can participate. The same applies, of course, to the state. I believe that this is a much greater obstacle than the fact that a certain level of pay would have to be maintained. Mr President, I would like to Dare we talk about what is the fundamental problem — what has led to the situation as it does? Throughout the 21st century, the other parties, through their refugee policy, have pursued an oversupply policy in the labour market, which has increased the number of workers at a rate which companies and society in general have not been able to respond to. This has been done jointly and in agreement, and everyone who has questioned the reasonableness of the fact that 100 000 jobs would be created in a very short time in Sweden has quickly been labeled as racists. This oversupply policy has given rogue entrepreneurs an almost inexhaustible mass of job seekers who can be exploited, since alternative jobs are scarcely available. In a well-balanced labour market, it is more difficult to exploit an employee, as it can more easily switch to a serious employer and thus prevent itself from being exploited by its employer. This is basically simple supply and demand, which should preferably be in balance. It is fundamental to all economics and also to politics, but the other parties have chosen to turn a blind eye to that. Instead, a policy has been pursued which assumes that demand will come, if not immediately, at least very soon. It was claimed earlier that only the 40s retire and the lack of workers would be enormous. Now I don't know how many 40-talists actually still work, but I'm thinking about my own father who was born in 1940 and recently celebrated his 76th birthday. What the advocates of this oversupply policy seem to have missed, knowingly or unconsciously, is that companies have constantly worked to reduce the need for labour. Swedish companies produce more and more per worker and this development continues, for better or for worse. Policy must be adapted to the reality of the situation, and we cannot just hope that it will work out. There won't be any guys from TV3 and fix it up. In fact, both the current and the previous government should have been visited by the Lyx trap a long time ago.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-135	Mr President, I would like to Although it may not sound like that in parts of the debate here today, a lot of things are happening around the country in the area. In an increasing number of municipalities, regions and county councils, procurement is already being raised to a strategic level and more and more resources are being allocated to enable the work to be developed. One of the reasons is that politicians at all levels have seen the crucial importance of well-functioning public procurement both in reducing costs and in influencing societal development. One clear example is the development of food procurement, which in many places now has a strong focus on organic and eco-labelled products and often also a great focus on animal considerations. They are also adapted to suit smaller and local food producers. In this area, it has become clear what difference a successful procurement can make both for those who produce the food and for those who are going to eat it at school or in the service building. Similarly, requirements for fair working conditions in procurements will further focus on the benefits that procurement can make in making a real difference to people. The latest municipality in the line that starts making social demands is Alingsås, from which I come. The procurement manager Johanna Hellström says that employment requirements are the first step but already sees the work environment and integration as possible future requirements. The idea is to be able to contribute through social requirements to healthy working conditions and health and safety at work and to promote equal rights and accessibility. The understanding that procurement can make a difference exists in more and more places around the country, and the Green Party is involved in driving this development forward. The increased scope for environmental and social requirements is positive, but there are more changes to the new procurement rules that will have positive effects. For example, it will be possible to procure reserved contracts whereby in selected procurements only suppliers with a social inclusion purpose can tender. This will make it easier for social enterprises and for people to get into work who would find it difficult to get a job on their own. Another positive change is that it will be possible to evaluate a contract at the whole life-cycle cost of a product. Life cycle costs mean purchasing costs, energy consumption, maintenance costs and end-of-life costs. External costs such as greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants can also be taken into account. Life cycle analyses are important. One example is that a LED lamp is energy-efficient and mercury-free but much more expensive. However, it lasts much longer and reduces, for example, the cost of expensive replacements in roofs or street lamps, which makes it much cheaper to take into account even that cost. Once again, I would just like to say that a new procurement legislation is important to get in place in order to strengthen efforts to achieve other objectives, such as better environment and greater social sustainability.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-143	Mr President, I would like to News is emerging during the current debate here. Until just a few minutes ago, at least I didn't know that Parliament's taxi procurement contributes to wage dumping. If that is true, I urge the President to take it further, because of course we cannot have it. I would like to thank Janine Alm Ericson for a wise, calm and balanced speech. This is where the issue lies – improvements are already taking place in the current legislation. With regard to things on which we all seem to agree fairly, such as the fact that there is a great deal to be done about food, as has been said, and about certain social considerations, we must, just as with the parliament's possible incorrect or problematic procurement of taxi services, look ourselves in the mirror and say: How can we as rulers and decision-makers at different levels take our responsibility? It is not true that it is the legislation that is in the way when it comes to food procurement examples. The problem is that we have a number of municipal, regional and national decision-makers who are not prepared to pay the price. How do we know? Because some municipalities, county councils and state actors are already doing this job really well and doing it in today's legislation. I noted that the Minister for Civil Affairs gave a speech on the Social Democratic Community Days. I hope that Ardalan Shekarabi then took the opportunity to tell the over 100 Social Democratic council chairmen to go home and do their homework. There is no reason why we should wait for new legislation or decisions in Europe to deliver in this area. In the vast majority of municipalities, it is only a matter of approving a motion put forward by the Center Party. Then you wouldn't have a lot of unnecessary work at the Government Office. The fundamental problem I have with the processes I referred to in my previous post is that there is too much superstructure and hassle and that companies feel that they almost have to hire their own lawyer to keep track of everything that applies. When it comes to imposing demands on collective agreements, we have nearly 700 such agreements in Sweden. In many cases, it will be difficult to determine which contract applies to a particular industry or procurement. It will be very difficult to determine what is a collective agreement-like condition in that particular case. For many smaller municipalities and purchasers the natural consequence is that you play safely. If you choose one of the larger companies that have signed collective agreements, you are safe and not at risk of making mistakes, which is a feeling that often occurs among our purchasers. Much of the problems we see are that municipalities and others do not want to make mistakes, and then you take the safe, which can sometimes be a little worse. There are things to get along and talk about. However, we should not do that in current debates with a certain tone of voice or by putting forward proposals that we know a majority in Parliament probably cannot stand up for, but we do so by hammering out what we can agree on and what can gain a majority. That's how I think a minority government should work, as long as it's sitting.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-152	Mr President, I would like to I suspect that there are many people out in the cabins who are deterred if they see in the television table that it is a topical debate on public procurement. It kind of sounds distant and boring. It would be a pity if that were the case, because I very much hope that many people are listening to this debate. The debate has become a bit strange and at times almost surrealistic, but it is still very telling when it comes to the incredibly empty and strange arguments that come up from the right when you talk about something as fundamental as what conditions we should have when people work in society and when the public spends their money on buying things that companies compete to deliver to the public. As I said, there have been many strange arguments that have stumbled upon each other. From moderate quarters there were various ideas that this is law and very difficult. But you shouldn't just dismiss and say there's law here. That is exactly what it does, and that is why there is a great deal of work to simplify and ensure that it is good. I do not know if you have different traditions in different parties, but it is common for us to look at the basis of the debate when a subject is to be discussed. Here in my hand I have, for example, the public inquiry Procurement and conditions under collective agreements and the Government's draft legislative referral Environment - social and labour law considerations in procurement. This is exactly what is being called for – how to deal with legal problems. That is why investigations are set up and referrals are sent by the Council of Law. This is being done, and it would be nice if we could discuss it. It didn't happen this time. As Mr Shekarabi said, it is interesting that this is the same type of action on the part of the bourgeois as on the Posting of Workers Directive. When they ruled, they said: We really want to protect the Swedish model, but unfortunately the Laval judgment has come. There is nothing we can do to ensure that there is equal pay for equal work in Sweden. A process is now under way to ensure that the Posting of Workers Directive is changed for the better. Then they come and say: No, we don't want to do that. We don't want to touch that. That's really weird. But if you think about it, it is no wonder, because it is convenient to hide behind diffuse and complex EU legislation. It is easier to say that it is not possible because of EU law than not wanting the common funds to be used to maintain decent conditions for the Swedish labour market. That is a much more difficult position to argue for. I understand that the Moderates do not want to do so openly, but this is not a good way to debate and argue. Basically, it's about you seem to feel a disgust with collective agreements, and you make it sound like it's a fun thing that socialists have made up. But that's what governs most things in the Swedish labour market – 85% are covered by collective agreements. What applies to the Swedish labour market and the Swedish model is that it is strong parties that agree. And how is this agreement expressed? Yes, through collective agreements. It is quite reasonable and self-evident that conditions that should be decent and able to be followed up reasonably must have some connection with the collective agreements that exist in the industry. I think that the voters of the right-wing parties should be able to think about what it means for representatives of these parties to call collective agreements a playground for socialist politics. I think that many trade union-active bourgeois would also find that quite provocative.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-162	Mr President, I would like to We Liberals want it to be simple, rewarding and profitable to run a business. For us liberals, entrepreneurship is an expression of the individual's ability to realize his dreams. It is through the ability of companies to grow that jobs are created. More jobs mean more chances of life for more individuals, it means less exclusion and it means increased tax revenues and increased prosperity for our common community. The starting point for our policy is that it should pay off to run a business and take risks. The conditions for the country's companies must then be adapted to the challenges that entrepreneurs face in the wake of globalisation, digitalisation and urbanisation. As the old chairman of the Entrepreneurs at home in Trollhättan, I can proudly say that four out of five jobs are created in small businesses, or even nine out of ten jobs. But then we must continue to think small first when it comes to nutrition legislation. It is a pity that the government cannot think so far and impose the same requirements on companies regardless of their size, regardless of collective agreements or non-collective agreements. The government's binary world view now leads to demands for Swedish companies. Swedish companies must have collective agreements or equivalent collective agreements – as the Minister of Civil Affairs mentioned – in order to participate in public procurement. It is a difficult blow to small businesses in Sweden that are at risk of being excluded from procurements to a value of 600 billion. Regulatory difficulties and anti-business policies are closing out many of the self-employed in the country. I wonder what they say to the wallpaper man who runs his own business and who makes an offer to repair the municipal armchair. I wonder what is being said to the training company, which wants to offer the country trail an administrative training, but which is run only by two partners in a trading company. The government's message is clear: sign collective agreements with one of the parties who is on the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats and then come back! No, Mr President, I say like Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon at Spotify: something must be done if we are not to be overtaken. Otherwise, companies like Spotify move their operations from Sweden.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-168	Mr President, I would like to There has been a lot of discussion about the Swedish model. Then you can think about what is the Swedish model. I would like a definition of that. I don't think my definition is the same as that of the Social Democrats. The definition for me does not mean excluding Swedish family businesses from bidding or excluding small businesses from a substantial part of the opportunity to sell. I want to go back to my picture of the farmer who wanted to deliver potatoes to the school next to the farmer's land. That's where we need to focus in order to be able to find in this jungle of rules. We need to see what it really is that we should be discussing. We do not need to discuss Swedish collective agreements that will make it more difficult for Swedish small businesses, but we may need to discuss another part of the procurement process, such as the procurement process that takes far too long today. Both the process and the contract block take about two months. This does not take into account the time it takes to draw up the tender documentation and decide on it. We must ensure that there is a faster process so that more people can participate in tendering. We have been dealing with the problem of low bids. We will give the municipalities the knowledge to see when the tenders are so low that they can reject them. It requires a certain amount of knowledge, and you should put gunpowder and power on that. The endless paragraphs contained in the procurement directives give small businesses a lot of thought about all these paragraphs. This may cause them to refrain from submitting a tender at all. We need to clarify and simplify these procurement rules in order for Swedish companies to be able to participate in tendering. We cannot, then, have a perspective in which we exclude small businesses. I also raised this with the level of appeal in my speech earlier, and I would like to say it again: too many contracts are being appealed. That is why the rules need to be revised so that this does not happen. This creates confusion and many problems for the municipalities. If a procurement is appealed and the appeal is granted, it will create a lot of chaos and problems in the municipality, if a construction project has already been started. I think the government needs to think again. What does the Swedish model mean? Is it that the Swedish citizen should feel safe with what the municipality delivers and that the Swedish small business owner can participate in the procurements? In that case, Swedish collective agreements are not the right way to go.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-174	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström probably put his finger on the challenge ahead. The municipalities can and should do more. They do much and not infrequently in cooperation between the government parties and the Center Party. We are moving forward with a new strategic approach to public procurement. Public procurement is increasingly seen as a strategic tool for modernising the public sector and improving our society. The problem is that municipalities do this despite or thanks to legislation. I should like to mention an example concerning requirements for animal husbandry levels in the context of meat procurement. There the legislation was not very positive at all. The lawyers were incredibly skeptical. A municipal councillor in Sigtuna decided to take the fight against legislation, against current practice. They then demanded that those who would be allowed to supply meat to the municipality should also respect the animal husbandry rules that we have in Sweden. The case was appealed by the unsuccessful tenderers. The matter ended up in the administrative court, where the municipality lost. But in this particular case Sigtuna happened to have a councillor who stood up, who was not afraid of trials and who had confidence. The municipality thus appealed to the Administrative Court of Appeal, stood up and argued for its case and won. And then practices in this area changed. Municipalities should not make positive efforts in breach of the legislation. We shall have legislation that is clear, which offers the possibility for contracting authorities to carry out sustainable public procurement. We now have the same problems as in the field of animal husbandry in the area of wage earners. There must be clarity and clarity so as not to reward unfair terms in public contracts. That should be a matter of course.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-179	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by being clear. Collective agreements are great for a lot of people. But it is not collective agreements that I oppose, but it is against the compulsion to force people into collective agreements in small companies. Six out of ten companies with fewer than 50 employees do not have collective agreements, and they make up 99% of all companies. We all agree that the goods and services we buy for our common tax money should be created under the right conditions. No one wants to see our common funds go to wage dumping, excessive working hours or environmental pollution. I think it's a shame that you play the cards off here by trying to smudge each other's settings. Mr President, I would like to The solution is spelled no more hassle and fewer Swedish jobs. Just as some consultation body pointed out, the Government's proposals bear the character of collective punishment. Just because there are those who don't behave, you choose to punish everyone. The government's proposals lead to lower competition, higher prices and fewer jobs, and who benefits? It does not benefit public finances, it does not benefit businesses and it does not benefit jobs. There must be secure employment conditions in the Swedish labour market. But the greatest security for workers lies in successful employers. That security is at risk with government policy. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, this is an ideologically driven product that is not rooted in EU law, which puts Swedish small businessmen who run jobs abroad at a disadvantage. We have tough challenges ahead of us in Sweden. If we are to achieve integration and the welfare of the future, there will need to be more people who set the clock in the morning to go to work. With the government's proposal, there will be fewer, and we can never help to bring this about in this House.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-185	Mr President, I would like to I note that there are clear differences between the blocks. You can see three different paths. The Alliance cares most about the right of entrepreneurs to skip the union agreements. It is even said that it is a punishment to be forced to comply with union agreements at the lowest level. Perhaps the Social Democrats care most about the trade unions' agreements. However, the Swedish democrats, whom I myself represent, are trying to ensure that we get a well-functioning whole, where the whole Swedish model is defended. It is not possible to lift procurements from the rest of the policy, but everything must be linked together. With functioning companies that compete on equal terms and without overbudgetary policy on the labour market, jobs in Sweden can be secured and welfare maintained. This requires thinking in several stages before making decisions that affect the Swedish labour market. We need municipalities and states as active parties in making demands on the market, so that it develops in a way that we can be proud of. We will follow up, so that we really get what we have ordered and what we have paid for. But it is too important to leave it to trade unions with unclear ambitions. With primary responsibilities, we can hopefully ensure that no money paid out by the public is used for black wages or other tax evasion. We will take responsibility for our procurements at all stages, and through continuous follow-up we can guarantee that Swedish workers' rights apply to everyone in the Swedish labour market. In short, it is a matter of real responsibility for jobs.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-188	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that the aim of the rules of the new Procurement Directive is to create better opportunities to use procurement to achieve societal objectives through, for example, increased opportunities for setting environmental and social requirements in public procurement. The increased use of environmental and social requirements means that fewer procurements than today will be evaluated at the lowest price. Despite the fact that some things happen, we need to move more clearly away from focusing on who sets the lowest price and instead focus on who has the best product or delivers the best service. The Green Party supports and welcomes the call for suppliers of goods and services that have been procured for the public to do so, taking into account reasonable working conditions. Anything else would be unworthy, as has been stated earlier in this House. There are countless examples in recent years of contracts that have meant that workers have been exploited in a way that can never be acceptable in Sweden. This is something that the government has drawn attention to and will now be dealt with through legislation, so that it becomes mandatory to impose certain labour law requirements in the procurements where it is justified. With the new regulatory framework and a procurement authority that has become hot in clothes, there are conditions to seriously raise the level and create a strategic public procurement in Sweden. Then procurement will really be one of the tools society can use to reach a modern and sustainable society.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-192	Mr President, I would like to I think there were several of us who were a little sceptical about the very purpose of this debate. If there is a bill going on, the discussion is usually taken when the bill is presented. But if we are to try to see some sort of silver truth that we have stood here this afternoon, I think it has been made clear where different parties stand on these issues. I note that the government now has a choice of course. If, after there has been a process at EU level, we want to renew and modernise Swedish procurement legislation, clarify what applies in a number of issues and give municipalities support in making a number of demands for both certain social and quality and the like, then there are probably good opportunities to agree on this. But if you choose conflict instead of consensus, you choose the way to make demands that apply to everyone and go out on all small businesses in Sweden, which disadvantage all Swedish companies in competition with foreign companies, then it is something that you will either not get through in this House at all or get through with a very weak majority. It would be unfortunate either way. I hope that this process will end with a broad consensus that we will get through a sensible update of Swedish procurement legislation. But then we also need to continue what has now been initiated a little, that we continue to lie on both ourselves and our colleagues at local and regional level and make sure that we procure so that there are nice conditions and good quality and that there is not only the lowest price that applies in every situation, because it is biting in the tail. That job will be required no matter where this bill lands.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-195	Mr President, I would like to This is a debate that basically deals with whether the huge sums of money that we spend jointly to procure things in municipalities, county councils and states should be used to strengthen decent working conditions for those who do the job or rather undermine them. The Swedish people have very broad support for the former. When we use our common money, it is quite obvious that we should also be able to have some common goals for the use of the money. Unfortunately, in this House it is not as obvious. It is regrettable, I think, that some of the bourgeois parties allow their contempt for a fundamental element of the Swedish model, namely the drawing up of collective agreements, to shine through and undermine the necessary work done to improve and modernise public procurement laws. It is sad, I think, but I hope that the debate will eventually get more people to think better in this area. Some things have been said in this debate about things being simple. And that is exactly why this work is so important. It becomes much easier with clear rules of play. It will also be much easier both to implement and follow up the conditions that exist if one leans more towards the existing and well-thought-out methods that exist to agree and write down the conditions that apply, namely the collective agreements. This is how it works when implementing legislation that points to the role of collective agreements, namely as the basis for how the Swedish model is expressed. The parties agree on what will apply, and this is referred to. So I hope we can renew and improve procurement laws.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-198	Mr President, I would like to The Legislative Council has found it difficult to understand the Government's proposals regarding the requirements that may and should be imposed on public procurement. Environmental and social requirements should be laid down in public procurement where appropriate. So the question is: When is it appropriate? It is appropriate to create clear legislation that does not lead to uncertainty for either companies or the public. The legal text should not be a forum for opinion, but should lay down clear rules that are followed by sanctions in the event of violations. Instead of making new policy of regulation, the government should train its authorities to become good clients, as has been mentioned here today. The current regulatory framework to promote good and resource-efficient procurement goes far enough. There are already good opportunities for contracting operators to reject suspiciously low tenders, as has been exemplified today. Here the same principle must apply as in business: If it is too good to be true, it is probably not true. I believe that the public can stand for itself, with re-imposed civil liability as a means of sanctioning. In the elected congregations, the government must look after itself and its fellow party members. They are in a position of decision in a majority of the country's elected assemblies. But this also applies to those of us who are in opposition around the country. Finally, I would urge the Minister for Civil Affairs to include the perspectives of small businesses and self-employed people in the further work on the design of the bill.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-202	Mr President, I would like to Procurement of goods and services for public services must be carried out in an open, legally secure and transparent manner. It is important that all operators have the opportunity to submit their tenders in connection with procurement and that there is effective competition. State, county councils and municipalities must also be given stronger opportunities to take ethical, environmental and social considerations into account in procurement. Obstacles such as high costs and tight time frame for producing tenders must be countered in the way possible. Procurement is a large and important part for municipalities at present. From the local authorities' point of view, of course, they want as much activity and quality as possible for the money, and from the entrepreneurs' point of view they have an opportunity to be involved in delivering to the municipalities. In addition to ensuring a level playing field for tenderers, a law must also be able to support good cooperation between the two parties to the contract. The current law needs to be changed in order to support what we want to achieve and simplify for companies to be able to participate better in procurement. Our wish is for us to get a proposal to Parliament as soon as possible, so that we can discuss it on the basis of a real proposal. That would be very welcome. Time has run away from the legislation that is today, and we all agree that we need to find a change. We also agree that wage dumping is not okay. We can regulate this otherwise than by demanding collective agreements, and we are prepared to do so.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-208	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for this debate. It has been an important debate. The positions of the parties have been clarified, and this facilitates further work. After Swedish Radio's reporting, we know that today it is probably a taxi driver who runs the service in Stockholm for at least SEK 27 per hour. It can be history on 1 January 2017, if the government does its job and if the Riksdag does its job. I can promise Parliament that we will do everything we can to put forward a proposal that solves this problem and takes into account the different perspectives that need to be taken into account: small and medium-sized enterprises, clarity and transparency and all the other perspectives on public procurement. But it is reasonable for us to make demands on fair terms. It is reasonable that we have legislation that puts an end to companies with unfair conditions being given a competitive advantage. When we put forward the proposal, I assume that the Swedish Parliament will take a decision and put an end to this social dumping, because we owe it to our citizens. It's our tax money we're talking about. Our tax money should never be used for social dumping. And it is we who decide, not the European Union or anyone else. It is the Swedish Parliament that makes the law. Thank you for this debate.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-214	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Edward Riedl has asked me whether I and the Government intend to restrict the right of municipalities to set up nature reserves and to allow the repeal of existing municipal nature reserves. Mr President, I would like to Let me begin with the fact that the government considers it extremely important to build more new homes. Today, the need for new housing is incredibly great. Boverket's forecast is that 705,000 new dwellings are needed until 2025. Municipal nature reserves are an important tool for developing nature conservation at the local level. Setting up nature reserves is one of several important planning tools for municipalities. My view and that of the government is that the municipalities use the possibility of establishing municipal nature reserves in a responsible way to protect areas of value for nature conservation and outdoor life. There is no review of the rules for the establishment of municipal nature reserves. I believe that active green structure planning and the establishment of nature reserves support attractive urban and residential development. Sustainable social planning is crucial for the ability to achieve the social transition that the Government seeks and which is clarified in the environmental quality objectives and the generational target adopted by the Riksdag. Municipalities therefore need planning documents that take into account both the need for settlement and the need for green structure. By taking a holistic approach to sustainable urban development, where urban development goes hand in hand with environmental, climate and health issues, we can achieve well-functioning and attractive urban environments.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-219	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. We fully agree that the housing shortage in Sweden has turned to what might be called an acute crisis in many parts of our country. It hampers social development when students cannot accept their places at higher education institutions and universities and when companies cannot recruit the staff they want because they are unable to offer housing where they need staff recruitment. The Alliance government did a great deal to increase housing construction, make existing housing available, facilitate renting and more. Of course, that was not enough. Much more needs to be done and in many more areas. Mr President, I would like to I have asked the Minister whether she intends to listen to our proposal from the Moderates to make housing construction a national interest. The Minister answers that she has received the report of the Government Investigation, an investigation commissioned by the former Alliance Government, and that the matter is being prepared in the Government Office. Then the question is, How long will it be prepared? And is the Minister in favour of making housing construction a national interest? Today, 12 government agencies are allowed to identify national interests. Many times different national interests also collide. Now I am in the wrong debate, a debate too early. In the next speech, Mr President, I shall take the right speech.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-225	Mr President, I would like to It was almost that I was a little confused and wondered what the debate was really about. But now I am on the track and would like to thank Edward Riedl for raising an important question, and I can thank him for both the question and the answer to the question. I want to make it clear that we in the Liberals are giving priority to construction very high and that a battery of measures is required to get construction started in Sweden. When it comes to this linked to municipal nature reserves, it is about simpler regulations in a broader perspective. In particular, municipal survey planning is an important instrument that needs to be used effectively. The Liberals are also in favour of an ambitious conservation policy. There is a built-in conflict here, at least if you look at it in certain aspects. Nevertheless, we think it is fundamentally difficult to put nature protection against development, but it is something that goes hand in hand. On the other hand, what obscures here and there in the debate is the abuse of the nature protection argument to prevent construction, and that is what we are discussing a little – whether it is widespread or not. I think there are different perspectives here in terms of the urban perspective, perhaps, and the rural perspective. I don't think it's very common actually. It is therefore important that these municipal nature reserves, which are, of course, justified in most cases, be set up to protect them. It's about natural interests, but it can also be about outdoor interests and working very seriously on the application rules that exist so that you make careful reviews of what you want to protect and why you want to protect it. It should not be done on the basis of the argument that you only do it to prevent construction. That way you would probably find it quite interesting to do a search. I do not know if there is any review of this and how common it is, or if there is any follow-up work on this with municipal nature reserves. From this point of view, however, I think it would be interesting to be able to do so.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-231	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the contributions of the Members who have chosen to take part. Housing planning and the supply of housing is an extremely important issue. It was humbled by Member of Parliament Edward Riedl to say that the previous government did not do enough. No, because we have a housing shortage that is far too large and where, of course, several governments have for a long time not contributed either to regulations or, above all, to building capacity, that is to say, to produce buildable land and to ensure that it is built and built for the groups that demand housing. We should know that this is also about a demand to meet. Not all types of construction in Sweden today meet the greatest demand. This concerns the demand for rentals from households that cannot enter with their own borrowed capital in particular. Rental rights also ensure flexibility not least in the larger cities for people to move to work and education and be able to change their place of residence depending on where they live and what the family situation looks like. When it comes to building new homes and ensuring that we get started a construction of rental apartments in Sweden is Sweden behind, and for this we need both a strong national policy and a collection from the Swedish municipalities. We should know that half of the Swedish municipalities today have a housing shortage. There is a genuine interest in the cities and conurbations to build, but there have also been several stages in the construction process that have been difficult. Not least, we have had a competitive situation we need to work with. There it has come in, I see now, more municipalities working with active tools to attract a wider market of builders to ensure that you get it. I think these instruments are extremely important. That is why the government was very clear after the Christmas weekend when it invited to housing policy talks and, at the same time, declared that in the major housing policy initiatives that the government is making – it is the biggest housing policy initiative in modern times, after the million-dollar programmes, that a government has announced, Mr President – is prepared to also provide funds to trigger investments in what is a future community building. It is a conversation we are genuinely interested in peace in land-crossing and broad politics, because we know that these are the rules of the game that many people need. In particular, it concerns the relationship between national politics and municipal decision-making rights. We have a municipal plan monopoly in Sweden today, and as long as none of the parliamentary parties intends to uproot it, I think that is the point we need to discuss. In this context, the government parties want to discuss ways to make it clear that municipalities have a responsibility to build much more strongly than they do today. I think it is extremely foolish to tear that debate apart by pointing out that there would be tools for overall planning in the planning responsibilities of the municipalities today, which the parliamentary parties want to go in and loosen up and remove from the municipalities. This is particularly true of a tool which has in fact been used in most cases for the interests of local citizens of attractiveness. It is about moving into places that have had difficulty getting citizens to move there and moving into cities, or about ensuring that families remain in cities because they have an attractive environment. We see that active land planning, including the green structure, goes hand in hand with housing planning in the planning of sustainable and modern cities. So I would very much like to turn to the perspective where, so to speak, the municipalities are being accused of stopping a lot of housing projects by building nature reserves. It's a wrong picture, I mean.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-239	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm jumping into the right debate. I would like to start by saying that it is of course a good thing, as we say, that we agree on the need for more housing. I would also like to say that what we have done so far has not been enough, either as regards what the previous government did or what the government did before it did. The question is: What is being done to overcome the challenges we face? Well, it is of course important to participate and highlight and look at where there are different aggravating circumstances in the processes we see. I also thought it was good how my alliance colleague from the Liberals, Lars Tysklind, described the importance of environmental considerations. This was also highlighted by the Minister in his reply. At the same time, I interpret the Minister's answer as saying that she does not really want to take away from the municipalities this right or the possibility of creating a nature reserve, and then there is the risk that buildable land will be lost. The interests of existing municipal citizens may be different from those of those who do not have housing and therefore are not yet municipal citizens. This applies above all to attractive urban environments where there is a lot of jobs and growth, where people want to move but where there is also a shortage of housing. There the interests may be very different, but as a non-municipal citizen you do not have the right to vote in the municipality. There may therefore be a need for some state responsibility in this. As I said, we need to simplify all parts of the construction process so that we get more housing in place. But in the end, it is that there must be buildable land. We will certainly be dealing with this in the debate after this too, that is to say, there must ultimately be empty spaces where you can build houses – or houses where you can densify. However, there may be other restrictions; for example airports and other things, my hometown Umeå cannot grow more vertically than it has done so far. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister if she sees no problem with municipalities being able to do good, buildable land to nature reserves. Is there no problem with the municipalities being able to do exactly what is happening today?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-245	Mr President, I would like to The last question I look forward to getting a good answer to. Now the Minister broadened the debate a little, and perhaps that is what we need to do. For municipal nature reserves are only a small part of this policy if we link it to construction. Perhaps there are much more important elements that the Minister opened up to discuss. Nevertheless, I interpreted it as being about subsidies and things that the government has now decided on, but that is not something that the Liberals see as a recipe for success at all. History shows that it is not a recipe for success. What we see, however, is that we need to continue to work on is precisely the planning of the land, i.e. the planning of the land, so that it becomes efficient and simpler. If you can manage both the overall planning and the detailed planning in a good way in the municipalities, you solve many of these problems. Of course, it is not the case that you are for or against green areas – green areas must always exist, and green areas provide attractive housing. Perhaps we will have the same kind of discussion as when we discuss the protection of the shores; it is still a matter of discussing what is appropriate in this context. That is what I would like to point out, that these are the processes we need to ensure that everything is done on the right basis. It is very well described from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency how to handle this in order to develop a municipal nature reserve. It is a question of acquiring knowledge and, as I said, doing so on the right basis. In most cases, I think it is done on the right basis, and if it is done not on the right basis, then I think we should pay attention to it.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-249	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for this debate. I can feel it getting a little crooked. They discuss what makes it not enough built in the Swedish municipalities. If you want to focus the search light on the fact that the reason why it is not being built enough is that the Swedish municipalities are too busy planning nature reserves, I think they have a distorted picture of both what is the reason why the municipalities establish high-quality outdoor and natural environment areas in an active planning as a nature reserve and what it is that stops residential construction. I think you have the correlation as well by looking at what party color the Chairman of the municipal board has for a number of years to find out which municipalities in Sweden are building rental apartments. If we look at examples from the metropolitan areas, where land competition is greatest, we can see that municipalities like Huddinge and Nacka have formed quite a lot of nature reserves while they are some of the region's largest residential builders. This contradicts a little the image that the interpeller wants to give of what it is that actually counteracts housing construction in Sweden today. I would like to come back to whether it is not the case that the way forward towards increased housing construction is about planning both green structure and housing structure. We need to meet the demand that exists and above all the demand that we build more in urban areas because we have an urbanisation and migration and need rental rights there to a greater extent – although there are many smaller towns that need rental rights – not least for demography but also to ensure that competition for land is actually about planning both green structure and housing structure. I myself have been a municipal politician in Stockholm and have been aware that the way to come up with good planning for new large residential areas and large densification projects in existing areas has been to clarify how the green structure can be given the best conditions to also preserve the quality values. These are the values, Mr President, which, in fact, ironically many times put the price tag that brings a builder to that place and builds. This disproves the thesis that nature reserves would primarily be an engine for reduced housing construction and would rather indicate the thesis that nature reserves in some parts and in some places have actually contributed to increased housing construction. Should research reports be made on this, I believe, Mr President, that these are the links to be found. The Government's ambition is for us to increase construction. The Government's ambition is for us to clarify the requirements for municipalities regarding the importance of building housing and the importance of building also for those groups that today do not enter the housing market and to ensure more building of rental apartments that it has built far too little of. Mr President, I would like to The means to get the municipalities to build more is not to take away from them a tool called nature reserve. I think it would be more effective to restructure air traffic in Sweden if it is housing, above all, to have. But now we are not going to have that debate, Mr President, but now we are going to have to deal with what makes more construction possible in Sweden. How do we get the municipalities to build, and how do we ensure that the planning conditions that they have in the municipalities push for construction? I am convinced that in modern urban planning it has been in doctrine and other places around the world for years now, not least, the sustainable construction that gives us attractive environments where green structure, active green land planning and housing planning go hand in hand. That's where we get builders who want to build, and that's where we get a lot more housing.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-258	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking both the Minister and my parliamentary colleague Lars Tysklind for this debate. It is important precisely because we have the lack of housing we actually have. We have a major and acute housing crisis in much of our country. We need much more housing and an increased rate of housing construction. We need more buildable land in the metropolitan regions where people want to move, and then we need to do a lot of things to achieve that very thing. I think the Minister makes it a little easy when the Minister says that this is not a sufficiently important issue. No, this is certainly not the only question, but it is one of many questions to get housing started. We must ensure that all the issues that prevent the use of buildable land are removed. Like I said, I'm signing this. We will have attractive living environments in our big cities. Good green areas are an important factor, and I am certainly not against that. But nature reserves are of course not the only way to achieve good living environments and good green areas inside cities. But it is an effective way to stop housing in cities. I believe that we will continue to have this debate for a long time, and we will certainly have to raise many issues both with regard to this section and with regard to nature reserves, aviation and many other things as preconditions and in some cases also obstacles to housing construction.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-262	Mr President, I would like to I should also like to thank you for the debate, even though I did not get the answers to the questions I brought here, namely: are the Moderates prepared to take up the glove from the government in the housing talks and actually to join forces in increasing the demands on municipalities to build housing when the housing shortage looks like it does? And do you really see no possibility that active green structure and housing planning can go hand in hand as we have seen in many places in Sweden? The thesis that the municipal nature reserves would be the major obstacle to housing construction is weak from the reports I have looked at and the municipalities I have talked to, not least the bourgeois-led municipalities, Mr President, which make a lot of fine municipal nature reserves by increasing the attractiveness and housing construction in the area.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-264	Mr President, I would like to We will come back to a debate that started by Mr Riedl earlier here. I am pleased to be able to give the government's response to the interpellation that has been received. Edward Riedl has asked me if I intend to review the number of national interests. I would like to inform you that the then government appointed a special investigator in 2014 who was tasked with looking at the rules for national interests and proposing changes. The assignment was presented on 2 December 2015 when the so-called "National Interest Investigation" handed over the final report Planning and decisions for sustainable development – Environmental Code's regulations for management to me at the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The issue is currently being prepared in the Government Office. It is therefore not appropriate to carry out a further review of these rules at this stage.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-267	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I also apologise to the Minister for not answering her question in the first debate. Since we are still talking about housing, I am taking the liberty of completing the previous debate. It is basically about the same thing, that is, the availability of buildable land. My party, as the Minister knows, has informed both the government and the media of how and in what forms we want to participate in this type of dialogue on increased housing. Basically, we are in complete agreement. We need more housing in our country. Mr President, I would like to I asked the Minister if she would listen to one of the proposals from us Moderates. It is about making housing construction a national interest. The Minister answers that she has received the National Interest Investigation's final report commissioned by the Alliance Government and that the matter is being prepared in the Government Office. I asked: how long will this be prepared, and is the Minister positive? Perhaps the most important question is whether the Minister is in favour of making housing construction a national interest. Then it might be good to know what this is. Today, 12 government agencies are allowed to identify national interests. Many times different national interests clash, and in the end the government must decide which national interest should take precedence. For example, it may be a company that wants to open a mine in a reindeer grazing area, and then you have two national interests that stand against each other. Dwellings, on the other hand, are not of national interest, even though there is an acute housing crisis. Is there a problem today? Yes, I would say it is. In fact, 55 per cent of Sweden's surface area today is covered by various national interests. This means that there is actually a situation where sometimes entire municipalities are covered by national interests. If housing construction then does not become a national interest, it is not possible to build or even examine the issue of housing construction over large parts of Sweden's surface area. Mr President, I would like to Is it reasonable that more than half of our country is covered by national interests while housing construction is not actually a national interest?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-273	Mr President, I would like to There are problems with national interests. To put it simply, there is inflation in national interests. There are areas, not least at my home on the west coast, where there are many national interests on top of each other to consider. It is also evident in the municipal planning process that it is important that municipalities relate to national interests among themselves and other general interests. It's a delicate task. One of the major reasons why the investigation was set up was to develop clearer lines to deal with the issues. Then perhaps each individual national interest is relevant and justified. But when it becomes a pattern of them it can get a little complicated. There are many things that might be national interests. Housing can be one of those things. Useful agricultural land is mentioned at regular intervals. Drinking water supply is also highlighted, but it is also not a national interest. There will be a kind of status on different interests. It is true, as the Minister says, that there is a preparation going on. We had a discussion last week in the House about national interests and housing construction. I then noted that the Swedish Ministry of Public Interest lifts up housing construction. The investigation proposes a new concept, namely essential public interests. It is then a question of highlighting housing construction and that it can be balanced against other interests and also against national interests. National interests are not about an idiot's stop on things, but about weighing your own interest against national interest. The municipalities have a process to manage. It is not just about what was discussed earlier on about housing construction, but also about this need to be included in the discussion. Now it has even become a discussion about housing policy in a broader perspective and the housing policy talks that are going on. There are some different starting points. There are some suggestions that are shared by all parties in the Swedish Parliament. They should not be difficult to implement immediately. It is about simplifying the regulatory framework. This could be an appeal procedure. Then there is a discussion about subsidizing construction. It has historically proved not to be a successful path – rather the opposite. We must also have the courage to discuss issues such as more free renting. There the parties differ. Let's see what this can do. When it comes to national interests, it is important that the preparation leads to a system that makes it easier and manageable for our municipalities to weigh national interests against important public interests and so on. It's about creating a society. It is based on what we discussed earlier, i.e. green areas and attractive housing. They're connected.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-280	Mr President, I would like to The much-needed inquiry into national interests is discussed here. Then I must ask the interpeller the following. The national interest inquiry was appointed on the instructions of the previous government, and this government has completed them. It was interested to see if it was possible to find ways forward when it comes to some problems regarding national interests, including to see if it is possible to make it easier for housing to build. Based on the investigation's proposal and not least the extensive complex criticism of how it would be carried out in a way that does not stop all land planning in Sweden for a number of years, including the risk of housing construction, I wonder exactly what proposals and which parts of the Swedish interest inquiry the interpellant believes lead to a significant increase in housing construction. Can the County Administrative Board make exceptions to various national interests? The Boverket will map all national interests. Each county administrative board should then be able to make exceptions for areas of significant public interest, such as housing construction. Is that the way forward? It is the municipalities in Sweden that currently have a plan monopoly. We noted in a previous debate that it depends somewhere on whether the municipality wants to ensure planning because there is buildable land. I wonder if we do not cross the river for water when it comes to housing construction linked to the proposals on the table from the national inquiry of the previous government. Perhaps the interpeller can inform me of what proposals it believes will lead to a lot of housing construction in that investigation.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-284	Mr President, I would like to Despite two debates, unfortunately, we do not have time to go into all parts of how to get the housing construction going in Sweden going. I am not going to broaden the debate on my part today in all its parts. I note that 55% of Sweden's surface area is covered by national interests, while housing construction is not a national interest – despite an acute housing crisis. We agree on the fundamentals, that is to say that there needs to be momentum in the construction of housing. There is no party that does not take that view. This requires many measures throughout the construction process. We could have many different debates on this. I note that it has emerged in the two interpellations I have had today that one of the things that are guaranteed to be needed to build more homes is land to build the homes on. It's basic. It doesn't matter how much we simplify in all processes unless there is buildable land. My question to the Minister would actually have been what she thinks about the proposal to make housing construction a national interest. I have asked the question repeatedly. I can only interpret it in one way, namely that the Minister does not think it is a particularly good proposal – if I have interpreted her correctly, Mr President. What proposals does the Minister himself have for more buildable land? I'm talking about simplifying that if housing is to be built in growth cities such as Umeå and in metropolitan areas such as Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, it will be necessary to buildable land. What concrete proposals does the Minister have to make it easier to obtain buildable land?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-289	Mr President, I would like to Basically, I hope that the Minister shares the view that it is good that the investigation has been carried out and that the issue has been examined. It is clear that one can talk about crossing the river after water because there are working processes today too, but we still cannot close our eyes to the fact that many municipalities are wrestling with national interests and must take them into account in their planning. Many times it is completely relevant to do so. I think we should be humble and be able to go in and look at what can be made easier in these balances. Are we doing the right thing? Is it the right priority for national interests that has been done in the past? They have not been added in a context. They have been created in different contexts and stacked on each other. As I said, there are large areas that have both nature conservation and beach protection as well as cultural conservation – perhaps three national interests on top of each other. Then the municipality must first strike a balance between these national interests and then, in the next step, strike a balance between national interest and other general interests. If you use the concept of general essential interests, it is not really an end in itself that you should do this, but rather that the housing supply must come in and play an important role. If it does not, it must have it, not least in order for us to increase construction. I think we should take seriously the signal that a simplified system is needed. If such proposals are made, I believe that there is a majority in Parliament for this.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-294	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the debate, although, as a minister, I may not have had a very clear input into how to deal with the R.I.G. inquiry. I have to be honest there. It is interesting, as Lars Tysklind says, to highlight this area. National interests are not simple matter. It would be very good to find simpler ways to make it clear to more players, but is the proposal in the RIK inquiry really the way you want to go? I just wonder because I get the rhetorical question: Should housing construction become national interest? But there is no such suggestion on the table. The investigation does not suggest that housing construction becomes a national interest. I am therefore a little surprised by the debate that is being held here as if that was the proposal that was on the table. This investigation, after penetrating the issue for a number of months, has not concluded that it will be a national interest, but that a rather complicated balance is to be struck against a lot of other things. I have to be honest with that. I am not entirely aware that this makes it easier for someone with a focus on housing construction. Of course, I will not fail to answer the question of how the government and I believe we will have access to more buildable land. What I think has proved very clear over the years and throughout history is that you get more buildable land if you build and expand efficient infrastructure. You don't get rental rights to work in an area without public transport. It is quite clear that people must be able to get to and from work and school and have a functioning labour market to move within. There, the infrastructure is what sets the limits, Mr President, because whether we get buildable land or not. But that question does not seem to be popular at the moment with the opposition. It would rather discuss the regulations that form the basis for an overview planning and a planning horizon. I am the warmest supporter of developing and modernising planning tools in Sweden. We have a very strongly driven local planning and horizon. With the major challenges that society faces in terms of both housing and infrastructure planning, but not least the climate issue and the adaptation to how we ensure secure social development, we certainly need stronger elements of regional planning; I am convinced of that. But is the way to go really to paint the image that municipalities do not want to build because they either do not manage the thicket of national interests or set nature reserves on the best buildable land? I think we politicians are wrong if we think that is the real problem. The answer to this particular question, the one concerning national interest in housing construction, may I address back to the interpellete. There is no proposal for housing construction to become a national interest after the investigation that would look at national interests, which both the former and this government have supported. On the other hand, there are a lot of other suggestions and analyses of problems and possible ways forward to facilitate what may have grown into a difficult planning tool for many. However, if we are to move forward on the issue of housing construction, we will still return to what motivates municipalities to build and how we ensure that this requirement becomes clear from the national level when the housing shortage is as great as it is today.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-304	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister and parliamentary colleague Lars Tysklind, for this debate on increased housing construction too! Let me say the obvious: I agree with the Minister – expanding public transport is a way of creating better opportunities to get into the target points we have, and this allows for an increase in housing construction. Infrastructure investments in other areas have exactly the same effect. If you expand the metro in Stockholm or if you build railway in my home county Västerbotten, it has the same effect on housing construction, i.e. that you create new buildable land within a reasonable time from the city centres. That is one thing; we fully agree on that. But what I'm talking about is how we densify within the existing structures in those places. The second part is, of course, entirely in agreement, so it requires relatively little debate on the substance. Here I can only interpret one thing. The Minister does not say it, but I hear it repeatedly that what you want to say is that if you can close Bromma airport you release some buildable land in Stockholm. Then let me be clear, because it works in the same way: If you put down Bromma airport, you reduce public transport opportunities for the rest of Sweden at the expense of a small number of homes in Stockholm. This is not a solution, therefore, but only a way to impair the rest of the country's access to its capital. If we need more buildable land, which is what my interpellations are about, the question is how we get it loose. We in my party have lifted up a few things we can imagine doing. The question is, in fact, what proposals the Minister himself has in this area that are not already uncontroversial, that is to say, to extend public transport, to build infrastructure and so on.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for another debate on national interests. I think we will come back to the issue. These are not simple proposals that the RIA has come up with. I note that the interpellier does not answer my question either as to which of those proposals would actually lead to housing construction. He may return to them in a different form if he so wishes. The fact that we need to build housing is quite clear, and it is this government's absolute ambition to have the increased housing construction that we now see increasing even more. We need to build 700 000 homes in ten years, and on this task all actors need to be involved – including the fact that policy can provide a broad framework for it under broad conditions. So it would be good to come back to the discussions on how we make increased demands on housing construction and enabling. Should there be good proposals there, the government is absolutely prepared to look at all the turns. What we focus on is that we need to provide investment conditions for rentals, which have so far been too bad. That's where we go in with strong support. We need planning conditions for the infrastructure, just like the interpeller said. Even if it's uncontroversial, that's probably what we're going to do to get more buildable land. We must also ensure that construction companies come and build. Not least in many small towns, municipal politicians have difficulty, even when they have buildable land, in getting the builders there. There we need increased competition in the construction sector. All these plans the government is actively working on, but we will have to return to these essential issues in the area of housing construction on another occasion.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-318	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what initiatives I and the government intend to make at Umeå University. In the last ten years it has become more difficult to enter higher education, and at the same time the expansion of the university has stopped. This is despite the fact that the number of applicants to the university has been very high. In order to give more opportunities to study in higher education, the government has therefore proposed in the 2015 spring amendment budget and the 2016 budget proposal an increase in the number of permanent places of study at universities and higher education institutions. The initiative includes resources for increasing the number of places of education in certain health care courses, teacher and pre-school teacher training courses and resources that universities and higher education institutions can give free priority to. The expansion means that resources corresponding to approximately 14 600 full-year students have been added to the university in 2019. Umeå University currently conducts all the courses included in the Government's expansion, and in 2019 the investment is expected to amount to approximately SEK 60 million for the University. In the 2015 spring change budget and the 2016 budget proposal, the Government has also proposed an initiative to strengthen the quality of higher education. The Government's quality investment amounts to SEK 250 million in 2016 and is intended for the education areas of humanities, social sciences, law and theology, as well as for teacher and preschool education. As a result of this initiative, Umeå University has been awarded more than SEK 12 million in 2016. In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government also proposed an increase of Umeå University's funding for research and doctoral education by SEK 5 million in 2016. Today there are universities and colleges all over Sweden, and that is very positive. It increases opportunities for further reading regardless of background, strengthens regional development and enables large sections of society to have close contact with higher education and research and recruit highly qualified staff. In a knowledge-intensive world, the university, including Umeå University, plays a central role in welfare, growth and development.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-322	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Umeå University is important for jobs and growth, of course in Umeå but also in Västerbotten and the whole of Norrland. Continued efforts in this particular area are perhaps one of the most crucial future issues in our country, especially in the northern part of Sweden. It is very gratifying with the initiatives at Umeå University that the Minister mentions. The efforts are well in line with the efforts made annually by the Alliance Government during the eight years when we had government power. Mr President, I would like to What I really want to ask the Minister is whether it is the government's intention to continue increasing funding to Umeå University over time in the same or, even better, to a greater extent than the alliance government previously did. Is that the ambition of this government?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Edward Riedl, for an urgent question! Yes, it is the Government's ambition to make the addition of new training places permanent. There is a difference between the more temporary places that were built up under the previous government. We see that there is a need to permanently increase the number of places at Swedish colleges across the country. We also see that it can not only be concentrated in the major places of study, but it needs to exist throughout the country. We have extensive regional imbalances in terms of access to highly trained staff to industry, private business and the public sector. It is necessary if Sweden, according to the Swedish model, is to compete with knowledge and innovation instead of low wages. That's the government's ambition. This money is permanent. We add them, which means a total expansion of 270 seats in addition to what the Alliance proposed in its budget. We must have high ambitions for more people to enter higher education, not least now that the population is increasing. This increases the demand for higher education staff both in the business sector and in the public sector. The demand among students is also increasing, and being able to meet this is very important. For the new large region there are also additional universities – Mid Sweden University and Luleå University of Technology – and they are also added places to meet the needs we see and also meet the increased student demand. Then I think it is important that we also add this quality money. Unfortunately, I do not see in the Moderates' budget that we want to strengthen the quality of these educations. We can see it's too little time for teachers. It is also important that we now have increased funding for these programmes, where there has been far too little time for teachers, which has affected the quality of the courses. Not least in teacher training, we need to strengthen quality. It is also positive that there is an increasingly strong interaction with the region and municipalities on how to dimension and design the education, so that it is right to match the needs that exist, as well as for access to, for example, the operational parts of teacher training and care training. So the answer to the question is: Yes, we will continue to expand permanently, according to plan. We will also follow up on the fact that quality money leads to what it is intended for, i.e. to more teacher-led time.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-332	Mr President, I would like to I just want to quickly recapitulate the story from the years before this government took office. At that time, the funding for Umeå University increased from approximately SEK 1.7 billion to just over SEK 2.2 billion. Higher education is important throughout Sweden. This is how we should compete with our world and strengthen our position in global competition. Only today we could read that Spotify is one of the companies that do not believe that they will be able to grow in this environment in Sweden. We need continued efforts in a variety of areas of higher education to manage both to attract new companies and to get the companies that already exist here to want to stay and grow within our country's borders. It is a pity that the Minister does not mention this, but perhaps she just forgot. Cooperation with municipalities, regions and county councils is of course very important when it comes to a variety of training courses. But we also need increased cooperation with the business community in Sweden when it comes to higher education. That's where we can get better. There are many good examples, but we could be much better in this area. In Norrland it grows along large parts of the coast. In many of our inland regions it grows less, and some even have negative growth. In this context, there are a lot of challenges. For example, it is difficult to recruit doctors for medical cabins and health centres. In this we can note that the doctors trained in Norrland receive their education at Umeå University or via the satellite training they have in the region. If we want doctors in Norrland, we must therefore educate them at Umeå University. This means that it is particularly important to provide special resources to Umeå University. This was not mentioned by the Minister. I interpret her answer to my question as being about general investments throughout Sweden. The Alliance government carried out in the field of medical training and some other training courses focused on some localities. Umeå was one of the locations that were handled in this context. As I said: If we want doctors throughout Norrland, we must educate them at Umeå University. We must continue to invest more in certain universities than in others. Then my question to the Minister is: Can the Minister think of targeted initiatives to, for example, Umeå University to meet some of these challenges?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-339	Mr President, I would like to We make some targeted bets. The courses that we have prioritised are midwifery training, pre-school teacher training, primary teacher training, supplementary education, nursing training, special teacher and special education and specialist nursing training. Since Umeå University has all these courses, you also get targeted places for those courses. We intend to continue to expand this as we see that there is both student demand and labour market needs and that we can ensure, for example, that there are places of activity, as well as quality in education. It is therefore important that there is a research link in all these programmes, i.e. that there are teachers at the University who have doctoral studies. It is important that the universities work to ensure this. In addition, we provide free spaces, which the university itself dimensions. It is 270 free places that you can use for the education where you see that there is a demand from both private industry and the public sector but also a student demand. This takes place within the framework of the educational offering that one has at the university. But, as I said, for Umeå it is very broad. This is a difference. There were extensions to medical and dental training, among other things. Some money was added, but internal redistributions were also made within the university to finance them. The same was true of the extension of nursing training. There were internal redistributions within the HEI for these so-called targeted initiatives. The difference is that we are just adding new places and that it does not require an internal redistribution of universities. This is beyond the range they already have. Here it is really about investing in more places to meet the demand on the labour market also in the private business sector but also to meet the increased student demand, which exists not least because we are growing, so also in Umeå. I think it is important that we state that it is universities and colleges that should handle the dimensioning and design of education. Now, based on the investigation conducted by Lars Haikola, we see that it is difficult for teachers' and health care trainings to cope with the dimensioning. Therefore, we add places specifically in those areas, but we also add free places. The important thing here is to make a political choice. This particular investment in higher education places means that we can gain knowledge and innovation that strengthens both the public sector and the private sector. We are doing this instead of reducing the tax.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-345	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that listening to the Minister may give the impression that the Alliance Government made temporary efforts, i.e. that it did not increase the level of funding for higher education institutions and universities. It can also be seen, Mr President, in the rhetoric used by the Minister, that it was tax cuts that made it impossible for our colleges and universities to be resourced. That is a completely incorrect description, I just want to say. It's not like that at all. I can take the university that we are talking about in this debate, Umeå University. During the year of the alliance government, funding to the university was increased from approximately SEK 1.7 billion per year to SEK 2.2 billion per year. It is real money, that is to say, a level increase that is significant. It is with great pleasure that I see that even this government, if you look at a year's budget, has contributed resources in parity with what an alliance government did. My question is really, Mr President: does this government intend to continue with this type of initiative at Umeå University and at the other universities if you want to pursue the issue? Then I think that what the Minister himself mentioned is good. I think it's great that you invest in strengthening research education. It is excellent to do so, for it is absolutely necessary. However, if I understand the Minister correctly, it is targeted efforts on individual training courses that are being made. Thus, a targeted initiative has not been made to Umeå University on an education, but it is basically general initiatives that hit right across all universities. It is not that you have selected some and invested some extra resources, as you did in medical school, for example. Some more places were then allocated to Norrland, for example. That's what the previous government did. They bet on Norrland. This government has chosen to act hostile to Norrland, as I usually call it at home. There is an increase in petrol taxes and the introduction of air taxes. Then the question is: Do you intend to make targeted investments at Umeå University or not?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-351	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl! As I said, these are targeted initiatives for Umeå University. This applies both to the programmes that we have said we need more of and the free resources and free spaces, which Umeå University itself disposes of. Nevertheless, I would like to say that according to the tables I have it is like this. During the previous government, the grant for Umeå University was increased. But when it comes to education, basic education and advanced level, it was during the eight years that you sat only 30 million plus. What we have as planned for expansion during this term of office is 60 million plus. Most of the increased funding went precisely to research and not to higher education – that is what I think is important that we do now. Instead, they worked to redistribute resources within the HEI to make these targeted initiatives. Some funds were added, but much was at the university to finance itself in the field of higher education. The difference is that this government spends twice as much money on higher education in half of the time. We are not forcing them to reallocate funds to finance our efforts, but they are fully funded. They are also long-term and permanent, not temporary. This is the most important thing we can now do to meet the need for university-trained staff that we have in the public sector and in the private business sector and for Sweden, the whole of Sweden, so also Norrland, to be able to meet the needs that exist and be able to compete with knowledge and competence rather than low wages. This calls for investment, real investment, instead of tax cuts.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-356	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me if I believe that the Police Authority and the Security Service are sufficiently prepared if Sweden were to be subjected to a terrorist attack. Roger Haddad has also asked me what new measures the government will propose to combat violent extremism in particularly vulnerable areas. My view is that the readiness of the Swedish police to deal with a terrorist attack is good. Swedish police have shown that it has the flexibility and ability to solve many difficult tasks under difficult conditions. In recent years, the Police Authority and the Swedish Security Service have also strengthened their cooperation in order to be as well equipped as possible if Sweden were to suffer from a terrorist attack. The experience of Paris and Brussels has shown how important it is for the police to be able to act in several places at the same time and for a longer period of time in order to prevent or manage terrorist attacks. In accordance with the broad agreement reached between the Government and several parliamentary parties, the Government intends to commission the Police Authority before the summer to investigate how such an intervention capability can be ensured. In our socially vulnerable areas, crime is higher, there is a greater risk of social unrest and insecurity. In some of these areas there are also people who have joined violent Islamist extremism and left Sweden to join Daish or other terrorist organisations. For the government, it is very important to reverse developments. This requires joint action from the whole of society. Reducing social gaps together with more jobs, better housing and an equal school are fundamental to creating an inclusive society. Active work is also needed to prevent violent extremism. We need knowledge, a clear division of responsibilities and a functioning collaboration within and between relevant authorities, municipalities and county councils to be successful. The national coordinator against violent extremism carries out a very important work to strengthen prevention at local level and supports municipalities in this development. Today there are contact persons for issues related to extremism in all of Sweden's municipalities. Several municipalities have also appointed their own local coordinators against violent extremism. In November, the National Coordinator also launched a special effort on four municipalities through so-called "Knowledge Houses" to protect democracy against violent environments. In the Knowledge Centres, municipal expertise is gathered to carry out the work against violent extremism in a more coordinated and effective way. The way in which the work of the National Coordinator is taken forward after the end of the mandate in June this year is currently being prepared within the Government Office. In addition to the Government's efforts to prevent violent extremism, the Government has presented several concrete measures addressing the problems in vulnerable areas. For example, the government's mission to the Police Authority and eleven other authorities to develop forms of local cooperation against organised crime and a mission to the Crime Prevention Council to identify measures against crime and for greater security in socially vulnerable areas. The government is taking measures from several perspectives to reverse the development of our socially vulnerable areas. However, this is a complex challenge to be taken seriously, and I will continue to follow this issue closely.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-364	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman, for your answer! The liberals have repeatedly in the past year and six months asked interpellations and written questions about Swedish ability – I want to emphasise Swedish ability – to act if there should be one or more terrorist attacks in Sweden. I listened to the chief of police's answer in the Ekot Saturday interview a few weeks ago. It was not 100% clear whether or not we could manage a terrorist attack. But I note that the Government says that the Swedish police have the ability to deal with a terrorist attack and that this ability is good. In order to nuance this picture, I have developed the Political Authority's budget base for the government that was handed over a few weeks ago. Unlike the fact that there is good preparedness, it states that the police and the security police together must increase their capacity to combat terrorism. It also states that there is a need to strengthen the national intervention concept, nationally and regionally. It states that there is a need to develop and strengthen the skills to detect terrorist financing. It is also mentioned that as the Riksdag criminalises travel, the pressure and workload on the police will increase both locally and at national level to deal with all the matters that hopefully will result in investigations and that more terrorists will be prosecuted in Sweden. This is a different picture than that of the Government in the interpellation response. The Security Service, Mr President, is a relatively small authority in this context, and those who will first and foremost face a possible terrorist attack are ordinary Swedish police. Then, hopefully, you can quickly connect the National Task Force, but it is the Swedish police that must be better prepared to handle a terrorist attack. The head of the Swedish police said relatively clearly between the lines that if it were to happen in several places at the same time, he was not so sure that Sweden would be able to cope with these terrorist attacks. The second part concerns how the government can better face the crime that exists in the 14 particularly vulnerable areas of Sweden. I will not go into the democracy minister's area, but I will stay in the home affairs minister's area: as far as the police presence is concerned, we see that in 14 of these particularly vulnerable areas, many efforts have been made for many years, but this has not been effective. The presence of the police is reactive rather than preventive. In these areas, there has been a normalisation of the exceptional lack of confidence in the police and the judiciary. Finally, in these areas, it is estimated that there are parallel structures, and this is also in line with the travel problem and that it is a question of violent extremist environments. Then the question to the Minister for the Interior, Mr President: how will the Minister for the Interior, responsible for the Swedish police, ensure that the number of police officers is increasing in these particularly vulnerable areas? The surveys presented by the police two weeks ago show that it has decreased. Operational resources have been reduced, says the local police chiefs. External visible police capacity has been reduced. It's serious.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-372	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad takes up two parts. With regard to the presence of the police in the socially vulnerable areas, the government will ensure that, on the one hand, the police reform that we and the Liberals agree on and, on the other hand, by providing additional resources for the police so that the exceptional situation that the police are currently in does not significantly affect operational activities. They will receive money already in this year. With regard to the counter-terrorism measures mentioned by Roger Haddad, which were also contained in the response on police one and security police, which Roger Haddad read out, all these measures are running out of the new national anti-terrorism strategy which the government drew up in August and which essentially joined the bourgeois opposition in December.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-374	Mr President, I would like to The Home Secretary's got to give us a heads-up. Is he happy with the chief of police's handling of the police reform? Is he satisfied with the progress report for a few weeks on police reform and the transfer of resources? The decision came into force on 1 January and means that at least 50 per cent of the resources in the police region will be available to be used for more district police and more police in external service. This has not been delivered, and it has been almost a year and a half since the police reform. The second is that a large proportion of the local police officers in the local police areas, as the new police organisation says, say that operational resources have not increased while half say they have decreased. The visible local police are absolutely central if and when there would be a terrorist attack in Sweden. It forms the basis of the police and security police's preparedness and also to get to and attack extremists and radicalized people who can actually pose a security threat to Sweden and Swedish cities in good time. I find it most alarming, but the Minister for the Interior does not mention that much in his speech. What does the Minister of the Interior intend to do to make that part of the police reform a workshop? I have seen that assignments have been given to follow up, and they are to report regularly to the Minister for Home Affairs, but parts of this report are due until 2018. Statskontoret's mission, for example, runs until 2018, and interim reports must be submitted. I would like a comment, Mr President, in this House about the police local presence that the Minister for Home Affairs has talked about so much. In addition, additional resources have certainly not been allocated to the 14 specific areas. In a written reply that I received a month and a half ago, it says that the police should give priority to the 14 specific areas. I am very, very concerned about the Minister for Home Affairs' handling of the police!
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-379	Mr President, I would like to It would be nice if Roger Haddad had taken advantage of the development of the past few years. Roger Haddad and the Alliance government initiated the biggest police reform in 50 years. It had good aims: more police officers closer to the citizens. Sweden has 28 000 hard-working police workers, far more per inhabitant than Denmark, for example, who have been hit hard by terror. Now, for the first time in 22 years, we have a situation in which Sweden carries out border controls that devour large police resources. We have the greatest refugee reception ever, which naturally consumes police resources. We have had the greatest terrorist threat ever, and we still have an elevated terrorist threat level. It is not surprising, therefore, whether it puts a great deal of pressure on the police organization to do the reorganisation work at the same time. That is also why, as I said, the government in the forthcoming spring bill will be sending additional money to the police. But the basis of the reform that Roger Haddad has been involved in, and which the Liberals have been driving, is that more police officers should get closer to the citizens. We will bring back the effects of merging 21 IT administrations into one and of merging 21 staff administrations into one. It is clear that we have to see the effects of it this year, but we cannot think of terrorist threats, the flow of refugees and border guards, because in that case we are placing an unreasonable burden on the heavy and hard-working police officers in our country.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-384	Mr President, I would like to ID controls and migration flows are being discussed with the Minister for Justice and Migration, who has also informed the Committee on Justice. This debate is not about that part. This is about the security services and the police's preparedness nationally and not least locally to prevent terrorist threats and violent extremism in particularly vulnerable areas. I know that a fraction of what the National Police Commissioner is asking for has been added, and a large part of the pot that will come in tomorrow's budget supplement goes to the Migration Agency's efforts: identity control, border control, asylum accommodation and so on. But here we are talking about police capacity. Local police areas don't get any extra money. It is civilian police officers who are to be hired this autumn, said the Minister of Justice of the Justice Committee. It's not the same as getting more uniformed officers on the outside. They are the ones who have to go into the 14 particularly vulnerable areas. They are the ones who have to take back these districts and municipal parts in Sweden. I am very concerned. I have not received an answer, Mr President, to my questions as to whether the Government is satisfied with the developments and what he intends to do to increase the local police resources, which are the basis of the work against terrorism locally and nationally. The second, as far as legislation is concerned, is under way. It's no problem. But don't tell me that the police reform and implementation have been delivered! And I'm not going to wait until 2018.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-388	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad makes it easy. It is understandable; it is perhaps the privilege of the opposition. Let me still establish some truths. We've never invested more resources in the police than we have now. We have not had more police at any time when some liberal has been in the government. We're adding additional resources to the police. Since it takes two and a half years to train a police officer, we provide them with resources to employ civilian staff who can relieve border control and security work. In this way, we can release trained police officers who may be in the areas that Roger Haddad is talking about. We have also added more resources to the police areas. For example, Storgöteborg has received 100 new police officers, and Malmö has received new ones. But they have been eaten up by the extreme situation we have had in the last year with terror, border guards and asylum seekers. We do not intend to allow this extreme situation to go out on the security of the citizens of Sweden. That is why we are already adding this half-billion, 500 million SEK to security and return efforts. We are no stranger to providing additional resources. We will have a thorough review of the figures and budget bases that the police have come in with. Finally, we have more policemen than ever that the Liberals, the Moderates, the Centers and the Christian Democrats were responsible for the police budget.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-393	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Swedish police have the tools it needs to ward off threats from drones used for criminal purposes. The use of unmanned aircraft, so-called drones, has increased sharply in Sweden in recent years. Drones have many positive uses and can be used, for example, in inspections, inspections of forest areas and electricity lines and police, rescue and coastguard surveillance. At the same time, it cannot be excluded that drones can be used for criminal purposes, not least in the event of hostile attacks on society. Technological developments in the field of drones have opened up new approaches for threat actors. It may challenge established principles of physical protection in buildings, facilities and areas, but also for measures in the field of personal protection. In February, the Police Authority launched a feasibility study to identify the extent of the problems of drones used for criminal purposes. The pre-study shall take stock of the extent of drone attacks, the areas most vulnerable and the problems in the fight against crimes where drones are used. The study, which is due to be completed by 31 May, will provide a basis for the Poli Authority to proceed with to ensure that police law enforcement activities are best designed to meet developments in this area. Together with FOI, Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut, Pol is also working on a joint application for an EU project within Horizon 2020 regarding, among other things, the development of countermeasures against drones. The police authorities are therefore closely monitoring developments in this area and are taking appropriate measures. Therefore, I do not see any reason to take any specific additional measures at the present time. However, the risks in this area should be taken very seriously, and I will of course follow developments closely.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-397	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an issue that I think is involving more and more people as the problem grows. It's not just science fiction novels and films where this form of technology is used for criminal purposes. A quick search online and in the Swedish media confirms the situation as serious. The government's response is that an investigation is on its way. That's good. He also responds that he will follow this closely and that the Poli Authority is following developments. A supplementary question to the Government is: should we then conclude that the police are currently on the case if someone with criminal intentions chooses to use drones to commit crimes – we do not need to go into details about how – because today you do not have any countermeasures? In such cases, it is not satisfactory, and I therefore believe that clarification by the Government on this point may be necessary. This is not a problem waiting for any Horizon 2020 collaborations. This is a problem that we are facing quite acutely. That is why I am interested in what the Government, the Ministry and possibly responsible authorities have for immediate preparedness to face what we are facing today and not just in the future.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-400	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for the question! No, that's not the way to interpret it. There are, of course, countermeasures in various forms, but the strategy and countermeasures are not good enough given technological developments. After all, technological development does not stop either, but rather accelerates it. Then it is important that the police internally in Sweden and in the EU can work out both tactics and strategy and better implement the electronic countermeasures that exist in the business. Hence the development work done by the police.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-401	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the clarification! It is good that this is being developed. It is not desirable for a policeman who is facing a difficult situation to see himself as fallen. There have been different situations, including in connection with crowds. Journalists have also flown this form of craft in inappropriate contexts where there has been a danger to health and property. To have, as at present, if I have understood correctly, just as an immediate opportunity to find the person on the ground who controls the vessel in question and thus bring it down, or to draw his service weapon and be very good at aiming, is not reasonable. What other tools are available to police officers at present? Does the Government have anything to add on this point? I do not feel that we were given any examples of what action could actually be taken if a threat had to be averted. I'm going to move this on a little bit further. The Government mentions some of the physical measures relating to buildings and facilities that may be necessary and about safety considerations regarding protective objects. Can the Government give me and the House any further insight into the progress of this work? With regard to the protective objects that we know a little bit more, I can question whether we are really equipped to face this kind of challenge. It does not seem so to a layman. The government may be sitting on other information. Another question that I think you should consider is not just talking in terms of where you can fly and not. Today it is forbidden to fly within so-called air traffic control zones that are mainly located around airports. There are also restricted areas that mainly have a military application or are applied around so-called protection objects. Is the Government or any of his colleagues working to make an inventory of additional areas that, in the light of technological developments, would need a restricted area status to avoid this form of threat? Haga Castle there is a restricted area around but not Stockholm Castle. There is a restricted area around certain islands in the Stockholm archipelago but not around this house that we are in right now and which may well be considered important for the functioning of society to some extent. These are fairly important issues for how to work on this. I think there's a need to be proactive. We must somehow strike a balance between stimulating technology and ensuring that we can take advantage of the great opportunities that drones offer. I myself am very much in favour of this and I can also tell the President and the House that I am in possession of a vessel of this kind. It's very fun to fly within all of the law's landmarks. However, a balance must be found between this technology promotion and the repressive that the state and the government must put in place and which should be as proactive as possible. At present, at least from this Member of Parliament, the experience is that we have not come all the way. What is the government's way forward?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-408	Mr President, I would like to I think I can illustrate the image Erik Ottoson gives. There's more to do here. Above all, this must be done within the framework of the police force. We move with the concept of drones as if it were a type of craft when it is actually a collective name for a large variety of different craft that can both be equipped with camera and not be equipped with camera. As far as the drone camera part is concerned, this issue is specifically investigated in an investigation set up by Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. In the case of non-camera craft, these are, on the one hand, conflicts with other flying objects and, on the other hand, the possibility of using them for other types of attacks or criminal purposes. It lands more at the po lice authority to review. Then there is the question of nuclear power and the protective objects, where we have introduced prohibition zones. The police may carry out the assessment of the need for further such measures. I believe that, with this, I have gone through the questions that Erik Ottoson asked.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-413	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the thought they developed. It is quite true that drones are a big concept. It is everything from those who weigh 20 grams and that you can hold in your hand to those who weigh most kilos and can cause great damage if they crash landing in the wrong place, and of course everything in between. My colleague Anna Johansson and I have had discussions on this. There is a great deal of confidence in the work that is being done within the framework of Easa, which has concerned the safety aspect. It should be added that Easa works primarily with drones that will weigh somewhere in the kilo class, not at all hekton or grams that we have talked about, although they can do at least as much damage. As the Government is well aware, there are some objects that can cause great damage and that do not have to weigh a kilo at all. The lifting force of such a craft may far exceed the weight it itself has at its starting point. It can thus lift rather heavy things to quite inaccessible places – a roof or a window. That is something that I think we all fear a little when threats come from all sides. I would like to thank the Government for the further clarifications. I think we will have reason to follow this up in the future. I understand that the Government is taking this very seriously. However, I think there may be a need for further steering signals that this is a priority activity, not only towards the Police Authority but also other authorities, which may feel that they are vulnerable but that the police have not paid attention to it. With that, I thank you for the debate. I look forward to great progress in this area in the future.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-419	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Erik Ottoson for having put this interpellation. On the whole, I agree with Erik Ottoson. This is an area where technology has developed rather quickly and will continue to do so. It is important that legislation and authorities follow this trend. As you know, there is often a certain backlog, and it is important that it does not become so great that we put the citizens at risk. I look forward to more debates with Erik Ottoson on what can be done in concrete terms to enable authorities and society in general to meet the challenge, but also to benefit from the benefits, both in ordinary society and in the role of law enforcement authorities.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-422	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson if she intends to review the Environmental Code to clarify the responsibility for the decontamination of beaches and whether she intends to review and clarify the responsibilities and roles of the state authorities in events similar to the oil charge on Tjörn 2011. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The marine environment is a high priority for the government. Oil spills pose risks to our seas and coasts. It is therefore important that the regulatory framework is clear. Environmental liability in this area is clear. There is therefore no need to review it. However, it is in the nature of the matter that after an oil spill the clean-up may have to be done before the liability conditions have been clarified. In such a case, the environmental regulator may decide on the correction at the expense of the wrongdoer. The authority will then take the necessary measures to subsequently claim compensation from the person responsible. Coast Guards are responsible for civil protection in the case of oil spills at sea, while municipalities are responsible for the necessary civil protection measures if oil reaches land. In addition, several actors have supporting functions in the event of oil spills. For example, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency can provide some reinforcement resources when the municipality and the region's own resources are not sufficient to limit the damage caused. I would like to stress the great importance of ensuring that all the players affected by an oil spill have a well-functioning cooperation in order to limit the environmental damage caused as quickly as possible. Several authorities also work preventively and preparatoryly in the field of oil protection. One example of this is the work on Sweden's fourth strategy for the area of oil pollution, which was adopted in June 2014. The strategy provides a basis for long-term planning in order to achieve a good capacity for the entire area of oil damage protection along the Swedish coasts and the large lakes. There is therefore an ambitious effort to strengthen society's overall capacity for oil pollution protection. The government is following developments in this area and will take further action if necessary.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-429	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to my interpellation is the serious oil impact that hit the municipality of Tjörn in 2011 following the collision between a Maltese freighter named Golden Trader and a Belgian fishing vessel named Vidar off the north-west coast of Jutland. The collision caused a major oil spill of marine fuel oil, which is what we usually call bunker oil. However, the emissions did not affect Denmark, but the oil was brought with the Jutska stream to the Swedish west coast. There it affected the municipality of Tjörn, mainly the main island but also a large number of the about 15 000 islands, islands and islands that make up Tjörn's municipality. A small amount of oil floated ashore at Orust, but mainly it was Tjörn and Tjörn's municipality that was affected. Mr President, I would like to This oil spill was the biggest that has ever hit the Swedish west coast. Of course, the incident put Tjörn's community's emergency services to the test. A wide range of government actors also got to confess colour and try out how collaboration works in this area. Now afterwards, Mr President, I think it is extremely important that we try to learn from what has happened. On the basis of the experience gained as a result of the accident, we must try to strengthen the preparedness for similar events and develop both municipal and state responsibility and the work to both prevent and manage these kinds of events. In order to stimulate that discussion, I chose to put this interpellation to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. She chose to hand over the answer to the Minister for Home Affairs, and I have no comment on that. The issues that I highlight in my interpellation land on the responsibility of both the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for the Environment. In the best of worlds, I would have liked to have had a debate with both the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for the Environment and perhaps even with the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Infrastructure, because these are matters which span over the responsibilities of several Councils. These are environmental legislation, rules for international ships, the work of the civil protection authorities and, not least, the interaction and coordination between the actors concerned. The Minister said in his reply that responsibility in this area is clear. He seems to think that the responsibilities between the actors involved are also clear. I am of a slightly different opinion. Does the Minister not see the need to clarify the responsibilities of the various authorities involved and to create a clearer division of roles and better cooperation between authorities in the event of events like this? I think it is important, Mr President, that we give priority to the prevention and remedying of these kinds of events. The Civil Protection and Preparedness Authority is clear that the risk of such accidents is increasing due to the fact that shipping is increasing, which is fundamentally positive. We are now seeing an increasing number of ships transporting oil from not least Russia. A single vessel may contain 10 000 tonnes of oil, as compared to the 450 cubic metres of oil leaked during the oil spill on Tjörn. For me, this is an extremely important issue, which I hope the government will really prioritise. The question to the Minister is: does the Minister not see the need to clarify and strengthen cooperation between authorities and the division of roles?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-438	Mr President, I would like to This is an important question raised by Johan Hultberg. There has been an evaluation. We must learn from this and ensure that it works in future events of the same kind. I think we agree that the risk is quite increasing. It can be said that this particular event began with shortcomings already in Danish and Swedish communication. These deficiencies left the oil spread unobserved until it had basically reached land on Tjörn. Even there were shortcomings. It was then found that you were not on the same alarm list in some strange way, how it works. So there's some potential for improvement everywhere. The contacts I had with the municipality of Tjörn shortly after this happened showed that it felt that there were huge shortcomings initially in the coordination of the authorities. Since the authorities came in late, they received a lot of criticism afterwards for what they had done and had not done. It seemed a little frustrating. It was also noted that MSB's oil remediation depot worked fairly well and that they received material from the municipality. But it was not always that the material was adapted to the terrain we are talking about here. After all, they did not have as much use of a four-wheeler out on western Tjörn, as it was said. In fact, the problem is not that the municipalities are not prepared to accept responsibility. In all coastal municipalities they are very dependent on biodiversity, and the tourism industry depends entirely on the fact that the beaches are not soaked. What Tjörn experienced in the aftergame was that the municipality had incurred huge costs. When everything had gone down, it was probably the biggest frustration that you lay out with many millions– I can't remember if it was 80 million. At least it was a very large sum. The municipality even had to borrow money to be able to cope with its own liquidity. It is not acceptable for a municipality that has done the job to have to pay for the fact that there are no better functioning systems. It was very heavy administrative. When it ended up at that level – I don't know if it's an anecdote or not – that there was talk of a residual value of a wheelbarrow that had been used at the oil clean-up, Tjörn Municipality wondered if one would have to condescend to that kind of discussion when one had made an extreme effort and invested a lot of municipal resources. Hopefully, this has been learned so that it does not happen again. But the Home Secretary can come back to that. It is important for all coastal municipalities that this works. There is no coastal municipality that is not prepared to take on the work to clean up, but one must have reasonable conditions and know that the municipality does not encounter a lot of other problems just for that reason.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-448	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what both the interpellier and Lars Tysklind bring forward. The oil charge at Tjörn was the first oil premium that was handled after the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness was established in 2009. Both the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, the Swedish Coast Guard and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council have learned a great deal from the oil impact and the experiences presented in the evaluation. I dare say that Sweden is better equipped now than it was then. It was regrettable that the municipality of Tjörn had to lay out with money, although it is natural in such an event. But the municipality of Tjörn has been replaced for everything. The State, in turn, has also been replaced by the person actually responsible, namely by the operator and the operator of the ship and its insurance companies. Through MSB there are now five depots with materials along our coasts. It is possible for the municipalities to be assisted by MSB but also by the Coast Guard, which has a clean-up ship and which conducts continuous monitoring of the sea surface in order to be able to detect this type of discharge in time. Just like Lars Tysklind, it is important to detect oil spills as early as possible so that at best you can prevent the oil from reaching the beaches where it is much more difficult to clean. However, I do not think that any new organisational reforms are required in this area, as Johan Hultberg asked me about. We have an organisational structure with responsibilities between the relevant authorities. Then it always needs to be practiced, and you also need to practice internationally. The oil charge on Tjörn is an example of an international accident that has hit Sweden. During the month of April, coastguards in Sweden, Denmark and Germany will co-operate with a similar event in order to improve their preparedness to withstand this type of accident.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-453	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the supplementary answer. It is good that we have a great deal of agreement on the importance of working forcefully to create a good preparedness for these kinds of events and to have an ongoing improvement work. I think there are very clear examples of improvement potential in terms of preparedness. In particular, the evaluation report referred to earlier in the debate by Lars Tysklind shows many improvements that can be made. The Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness wrote an evaluation report together with the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, which was completed in spring 2014. It contains a total of 24 recommendations to the municipality of Tjörn and the state authorities. There are also two recommendations, Mr President, addressed directly to the government. What the evaluation shows is that, on the whole, there were certain shortcomings in the division of roles and responsibilities and that these need to be clarified. That is the call made to the government. In his reply, the Minister stressed the importance of the cooperation of all actors affected by an oil spill, on which we fully agree. But I think that the Minister may do something too easy when he places responsibility on the authorities and says that they need to be better at working together and at practicing together. The assessment report from MSB and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management points out that there is a need to clarify the responsibilities with regard to the central supervisory guidance on clean-up and possibly the expert support that exists in the clean-up process, i.e. what MSB is tasked with. It was therefore a direct recommendation to the government to review that responsibility. The second direct recommendation contained in the evaluation report to the Government is to investigate the responsibility of the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority. The Minister mentioned in his reply that the oil charge on Tjörn was the first oil spill that occurred after the formation of MSB. But the same applies to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. The evaluation points to the fact that the role of the Agency for Marine and Water Management was very unclear and that it needs to be addressed. The evaluation report states that such an assessment of the role of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management should also address the responsibility of other authorities regarding environmental aspects and also the limits of responsibility between the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the County Administrative Boards. In addition, the question of financing the services of the so-called 'Oil Emergency Service' should be examined. I know that service has previously been procured by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. But for some time now the service has not been procured, so it is in a moth bag. During the visits I have made to Tjörn and the discussions I have had with the emergency services there, it is precisely mentioned that the oil emergency services were an important support in the clean-up work. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister is: what is the government's position on the two direct recommendations made in the evaluation report? Will the government clarify the responsibilities of clean-up? Will the government investigate the role of the Maritime and Water Authority in oil spills and the interface with other authorities?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-463	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Johan Hultberg's questions. These are the issues that the Minister for Home Affairs will have to consider for two minutes. It can also be noted here that there is an authority that has a very clear mission, and that is the Coast Guard. The environmental mission is the main mission of the Coast Guard. In addition, funds have been allocated to acquire modern - oil-tapping vessels in the past - large, even better vessels to clean up the oil at sea. What was so frustrating about Tjörn was that there was so much oil ashore before action was made, and then it was not the best weather in the world. We can discuss what exactly we are going to change, but we can surely note that the follow-up shows that there are clear shortcomings, and in some way we need to remedy them. Whether there are laws to be amended or there are shortcomings in application or regulatory letters, one must try to find a solution so that this is not repeated. It's more an explanation than an excuse, as you usually call it, that MSB and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management were not quite agreeable on this occasion. Let's hope they're better off today. It is very important for the government to make sure that this works. I look forward to the answers to the two questions asked by Johan Hultberg.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-468	Mr President, I would like to These two issues, which were also included in the evaluation, are intended to be addressed both by the 4th Joint Strategy on Oil Pollution, which was developed in 2014, and by the Action Plan to be launched in one and a half months' time, in May 2016. It is intended to respond to the criticisms contained in the evaluation. There is an opportunity for both Johan Hultberg and Lars Tysklind to return in future interpellation debates if the action plan would not meet the high demands that exist. Basically, I think we agree that this is an important area and that parts of the coordination need to be clarified, but that the responsibility is fundamentally clear. It is first and foremost the operator who is responsible. The responsible authority is then the municipality, and it will receive support from the Maritime and Water Authority, Coast Guard and MSB. MSB is responsible for the fact that there are materials to be able to make this type of effort, in addition to what the Coast Guard does. I would like to thank you for a good interpellation.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-471	Mr President, I would like to This debate may not be the most tense that the audience is following. There is a great deal of agreement on these issues, which is basically a good thing. It is about improving preparedness, and it may not be directly a party political issue. An important issue that I have not yet touched on so much is something that the Minister mentioned in his last speech, namely to get the operator to take the responsibility it should take, that is, to pay for the costs caused by an oil spill, preferably also actually for the indirect costs in terms of lost tourist revenue, environmental damage and so on. Today it is clear that responsibility lies with the operator, but in practice it is not always the practitioner who takes responsibility. The Minister mentioned that the insurance company for the ships concerned has now borne some of the costs, but that is just one part. The states of Sweden and Denmark demanded about 180 million, I would like to recall, and the settlement that was made means that the insurance company pays about 105 million. Unfortunately, the costs have landed to a very large extent on the knees of Sweden's taxpayers, especially taxpayers in the municipality of Tjörn, and that is very unfortunate. There has been an investigation in court on the issue of liability. Now that process has been closed because the International Public Prosecutor's Office has not received replies from Belgium and Malta to the requests made. A joint message to the Minister is that he can try to push a little bit at EU level to strengthen compliance with the obligations of the flag State. Now I see that the Minister for Infrastructure has entered the Chamber, so it may also be a contribution to her that we must ensure that flag states live up to their commitments.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-475	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Johan Hultberg for a good interpellation and a constructive tone in the interpellation debate. It is a good thing that a small nation like Sweden can show political unity on these kinds of issues. I think this is the right way forward. I hope that together, including Lars Tysklind, we can monitor that the results of the action plan to be presented in May will be desirable, so that Sweden is better equipped to meet this. I also agree with the need to tighten up the international framework for flag States. But it is something that can be said more easily than done, because the international requirements for shipping companies and shipowners are so low. It would certainly need to be tightened up in order to promote environmental work, but also workers' rights and the standards of international shipping. There we can have a joint effort forward.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-477	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me when we can expect alco-bommers in our Swedish ports. Sten Bergheden has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the alcoboms announced by Parliament have been installed. Sten Bergheden has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that as few drunk drivers as possible get into traffic before the bars are set up. The systematic work in the spirit of zero vision has led Sweden to be at the forefront internationally in terms of road safety. Part of the success of the Swedish road safety model is to promote road safety related products and services, many with a great export potential. A good innovation climate in the area of road safety in turn provides opportunities for companies to grow and create more jobs in Sweden. Working to prevent and prevent drunk driving offences is already part of the control activities carried out by the Police Authority, the Coast Guard and the Customs Administration. It is of course important to develop good practices and practices for this. The Alkobommarna is one of several examples of new technology solutions for controlling sobriety. My starting point is that alco-bommers are an interesting opportunity to prevent drunk driving in ferry traffic and thus increase road safety. It can also be a way of promoting more sustainable development in heavy traffic. We must now, in cooperation with the authorities and other key actors, find good solutions to further reduce drunk driving.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-480	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the interpellation response, but of course I did not receive an answer to my question. I asked the Minister for Infrastructure a written question about when we can see the alcoboms in place and how many jobs the government estimates the alcoboms will contribute. The background is, in addition to the fact that the issue is very important, including an article in Svenska Dagbladet on 16 March 2016, where the Minister for Infrastructure writes that the experimental activities have produced good results. The answer to the written question was completely inconclusive. It didn't say anything about when you can see alcoboms in place. Then, of course, I asked for an interpellation. But now I get an even worse answer, Mr President, in fact no answer at all to the question. Now the Minister for Infrastructure is also mixing the Swedish model with the question of alco-bommers. One might wonder why. Surely the social partners have nothing to do with this particular issue. Is it legal at all, Mr President, to write such a bland answer to a straight question? The question was: When can we see alcobommers in place in our Swedish ports? The fact that it takes so long on the issue of alcoboms is under any criticism. How long will it take for a government to make up its mind? The various questions I have put to the Minister have not been answered at all. Now the government decides to review the possibilities of introducing alcoboms. The alcoboms would be an important control. They would prevent vehicle drivers who come by ferry to Sweden in a drunk state from entering the country. But in an issue that is so important, the government is completely paralysed. That says a lot about the state of the government. What makes the Minister so hesitant on this particular issue? The attempt in Frihamnen was a success. For three months 12 000 vehicles were checked. 0.7 percent of drivers had 0.2 per mil or more in their blood. It's more than traffic in the rest of the world. The experiment in Gothenburg was also successful. This is an alliance-time initiative. At the end of the trial period with alco-bommetrators, virtually no one in that port was affected. It had a very preventive effect. The issue is investigated and clear, and it is an effective system. Then it's just to get started, especially now that we have a situation where the police have many new tasks. According to them, some 2 000 new police officers and thousands of civilian workers are needed. Traffic police are no longer doing as many checks as before. Therefore, it is extremely important that the alcoboms are set up now. But now that the new Värtahamnen in Stockholm is being rebuilt, there are not even any plans to introduce alco-bommers. I ask the Minister for Infrastructure again: When can we see alcoboms in Swedish ports? And do not involve the Swedish model in this issue!
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-488	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I can agree with my colleague, Erik Andersson, that there is really no answer in the answer we received, but it is a general observation that we are interested in this. That's all there is in the answer. We can then back up a little bit to what has happened on this issue. The Alliance government initiated the experiment with alco-bommers, which began in Gothenburg. Then the bars were moved to Frihamnen in Stockholm, to test how they worked in different places. And we know that when they were moved from Gothenburg it was very loud from many Social Democratic representatives, who wondered how to take down something that worked so well and move it away from Gothenburg. We did it anyway, considering it was a try. The trials were completed just over a year ago. Then MHF, who has held this, has handed over a material on how to develop this further and how it could work. They have learned from the trials. Minister Ygeman has also said that he thinks this should be put in place, that it would be good to get the alcoboms up. But nothing happens. The Parliament then gave an announcement on 15 March 2015, just over a year ago, that we wanted the alco-bommers up and were ready to proceed with this issue. At that time, the Minister and the Government took hold of the matter and gave the commission to the Swedish Transport Administration on 9 April 2015, I think it was, to investigate what this would look like in the various ports. They got the answer in early November where the Swedish Transport Administration pointed to a lot of problems in setting up the alcoboms. We then had an interpellation debate here on how to proceed in that situation, and after that nothing really happened. I know that some things have happened in the meantime, and I know that those working on this have courted the Minister and discussed this. But there does not seem to be any real will from the government to address the issue – a will that was so incredibly strong before the elections. Today, the bars are down. In addition – hear and be amazed – the booms located in the free harbour will be moved to Finland on 19 May for a trial there. Finland is interested in this. And when we visited the harbour in Stockholm, the Danes were up watching this, because they also thought it was very interesting. But after the Social Democratic Government took over power in this country, nothing has been done in Sweden. However, work is now going on in our neighbouring countries to set up alco-boms, but nothing is happening here in Sweden. It is a bit embarrassing to see this situation when we have developed this and developed the whole concept. It can also provide Swedish jobs. The Alkobommarna have actually evolved here in Sweden, and also some come from Skaraborg and my home area, which makes me even more interested in getting these up.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-496	Now we have the technology in place and it works well, so my questions are: When will the government ensure that the Riksdag's decision to set up alcoboms in our ports and at our border stations is implemented, and when do we have the alcobommers in place? Or is the government going to ignore the announcement?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-497	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by correcting history on one point. In fact, when the Alliance government left, it had forgotten the small detail that the experimental activities needed to have funding throughout the trial period. We solved this by extending the trial time so that it could continue until the evaluation was completed. Then it has been a work where the government has not appointed an investigation but has given a commission to Trafikverket to investigate the conditions for expanding the experiment with alco-bomms, permanent these and also in more ports. As pointed out, the Finnish Transport Administration has reported back to the Government at the end of last year. Thereafter, the government has continued to work on the issue and will return with the next step in the process. When it comes to how we choose to express ourselves in interpellation responses, I reserve the right to use whatever expressions I want and in the way I wish. If you say that what is the basis for the entire work with and application of the zero vision is not a Swedish model for road safety work, you have to explain how you think about it. I would like to say that it is one of the most successful Swedish models we have, and which we have also exported with great success. In almost all contexts where I meet governments, road safety stakeholders and others from other parts of the world, the Swedish zero vision gives rise to enormous interest and respect, both of course for the very good results we have achieved and for the approach, i.e. that no figure above zero is acceptable. It's not just about changing or influencing the behaviour of individuals, it's also about working with infrastructure development, vehicle development, technology development and many other things that together lead to increased road safety. As has already been said, the next step in this process will be taken shortly in the case of alcoboms, so I look forward to having the gentlemen who have intervened on this issue in due course.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-502	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Minister for Infrastructure can write her answers as she likes; she is free to do so. On the other hand, I have the right to have comments on the answers that come, and the answers that come are not answers, but just a lot of words that say nothing on the issue. We can go back to the article that the Minister for Infrastructure wrote together with Karin Svensson Smith in Svenska Dagbladet. There they say that the experimental activities have had a very good effect and that the alcoboms will help the government reach its target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Then, of course, I wonder: how many jobs will the alcoboms provide? When I read the Swedish model, I think mainly of the negotiations that have been between the social partners, but now it seems that for everything that the Social Democrats think fit well, it is the Swedish model that applies. But it is basically a negotiation between the social partners that has been designated as the Swedish model. Now the experiment is over, and I would like to have an answer to: When can we see alcoboms in Swedish ports? The Minister for Infrastructure says that there has been an investigation, that it is ready and has been submitted to the government and that the government returns with an answer when it is time for an answer. Then I wonder: Are we talking in one, two or three years, or are there only a few months left until we can get an answer to this important question? Or is it not at all interested in introducing a system of alco-bommers in Swedish ports?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-506	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by repeating my questions to the Minister so that we can have a clear answer today. When will the government implement the Riksdag's decision to set up alco-boms in our ports and at our border stations? When will that decision be taken in the government? When will the alcoboms be in place? There must be a will from the government and our ministers to get somewhere anyway. Some kind of hint of where you're going to land must still be there. We agreed before the election that we would get the alcoboms up. We have pushed the issue all the way, and if we had continued to rule, the alcoboms would have been set up. That was our ambition, and that is why we started the trials. We had not dismantled them and then sent them over to Finland to test them and move on with our efforts to remove alcohol-affected drivers in Sweden. Of course, we had made sure to hunt those we had intended to hunt. Today, the police do not have time for the traffic controls to be carried out, that is, there are a lot of unwieldy drivers driving around on our roads. The number of roadside checks on sobriety is also decreasing. In addition, a safe lease is given for those who come in by boat across the border stations. It is thought that in Sweden there is no risk. There are no controls at ports, and there is no risk of alco-boms. Go there and go over, drive in Sweden and then you see how it goes. This is serious and known. Look at the haulage industry. You drive after these truck drivers daily and see cars waving on the roads. You can see that the drivers must be under the influence of drugs. One way to get to the problem is to actually stop those who come in with ferries across borders so they can't roll on into the country and cause death. An alcoholic truck driver driving on a school bus has enormous consequences. I don't want us to get in that position. Make sure you stop what we agree on. When is the decision made? When will the alcoboms be set up? Is the government going to ignore the announcement we made over a year ago? This is serious. In some way, we will of course follow up on this unless Parliament's decision becomes a reality. The very idea of the decisions is that they should be implemented. One way to start a business in this country is to further develop and sell the alcohol booms. It can be a profitable business for entrepreneurs in Sweden to proceed with. Even that part is important to remember. If we lose sight of this issue and someone else takes over, we have lost the incentive for the work that has been done before. Now it is not the Alliance that is responsible, but now it is the Social Democratic Government. It was clear earlier, but after the election they ignored the issue. We want an answer, Minister: when will the alcoboms be in our ports?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-516	Mr President, I would like to It is strange that Sten Bergheden and, to some extent, Erik Andersson also resort to such breast tones in this matter. It is an issue that we pushed hard in opposition, just as Mr Sten and Mr Erik mentioned, and we are still pushing the issue hard in the majority. Of course, a question must also be prepared in a good way. All the facts of the case must be included before making a more decisive decision in that part. I feel safe when it comes to the alcoboms. I can agree that it has been unfortunate that there has been a pause for a period of time, but I am convinced that once the issue has landed and dealt with properly and when a responsible government has looked at all the facts, we will find a way out of the matter. We agree in both blocks that the alcoboms are important and valuable. They save lives. It will be a good solution over time.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-519	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Sten Bergheden of the wording of the announcement. The announcement states that the government should urgently review the issue of how to implement the construction of alco-boms in border ports. I would say that that announcement has already been answered by the government by adding the assignment to the Swedish Transport Administration. In that part, I think we're done already. However, it does not help because there are still no alcoboms in our ports. The experiments that have been carried out have shown good results. Among other things, there were significant differences in the proportion of drivers affected at the start and end of the pilot operation. But one of the really important conclusions of the experiment is that the alcoboms have an effect even when they are not running. The preventive effect of perhaps going into an alcobom when leaving the ferry has proved to be almost as effective as actually carrying out the checks. This compares with other similar technical equipment, such as speed cameras. Even the dumies on the roads have a moderate effect by not really knowing. There may be a camera there, and thus there is an increased incentive to maintain speed. The interpellation response, Erik Andersson, showed that it is a question of the Swedish model for road safety work. I still insist that the zero vision is very much a Swedish model for road safety work, which has also been extremely successful in an international perspective. The work on alcoboms, automatic speed monitoring and other technological developments has been a contributing factor to the great success. In many other countries, it has in the past been taken up to have different types of campaigns and to try to inform road safety. But it is only with the holistic approach that zero vision means, where great effort is put into making the infrastructure and transport system as forgiving as possible, that good results are achieved. The development of the alcoboms is a good continuation of this tradition. We have come a long way in reducing the number of road deaths. Of those who remain, there is an unreasonably large proportion affected by alcohol, which means that the issue of drink driving is very much a focus area. Many other things are done too. One should be careful to think that you solve all the problems associated with drunk driving by building alcoboms in our ports. Different methods of e.g. alcohol locks in cars and different types of projects are also needed for those who relapse in such behaviour to get the support and help they need – it's almost always people with an alcohol addiction – and many other efforts. Alcobommers are definitely a way to counter drunk driving and thus improve road safety.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-527	Mr President, I would like to We could hear now that the Social Democrats feel safe on this issue, even though there are no alco-boms in place. We can only speculate on how many affected truck drivers or car drivers we get into the country. But the Social Democrats feel safe. The Social Democrats believe that they will win public opinion by constantly talking about the Swedish model. But hear and be amazed, Minister for Infrastructure: The Moderates are also behind the Swedish model. That's where we all agree, so you don't have to worry. We believe that the social partners will agree on wages and collective agreements. But the basic question is when we get the alcoboms in place in Swedish ports, especially now that we have a situation where the police perform many other tasks and are not able to control the sobriety of traffic as before. The most important thing about the alcoboms is, of course, that the Minister for Infrastructure in itself addressed and praised the preventive effect. The technology exists, and we naturally wonder why nothing is happening on this issue. Trafikverket's investigation is complete. We are really just waiting for a decision from the Minister for Infrastructure that the alcoboms should arrive in Swedish ports. Why? Because it saves lives.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-532	Mr President, I would like to If I was worried when I asked the interpellation, I was really worried now, because now the Minister said that he thinks that only by examining what this might look like has delivered what the announcement requested. You haven't even done it, because you haven't solved what it's supposed to look like. You don't even know on the government's and the minister's side if you're going to go on the Trafikverket line or on MAF's line and set up the bars in the way that is. You really have no idea what to do. All you know at present is that you don't do anything. You sit and wait. Johan Andersson from the Social Democrats felt that the pause was unfortunate. Yeah, so do I. That is the reason for my interpellation – there has been an unfortunate pause because this government took over this work. Then the work that we started was done. Johan Andersson also spoke about a responsible government. I do not know whether at this point we can talk about the same government. I do not know which government Johan is talking about in that case, because it is surely not very responsible to allow onytra drivers and drivers to cross our borders when we have technical equipment and the possibility to stop them before they go out and cause damage and death on our roads. I asked three questions. When is this decided? I didn't get an answer. When are we going to get the alcoboms up in our ports? I didn't get an answer to that question either. I got half an answer to the question of whether you're going to ignore the announcement. Then I was told that it is perceived that it has almost already delivered what the announcement requested. This is worrying. This costs lives on our roads. Do it again! Do better!
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-538	Mr President, I would like to I'm not so worried, Sten Bergheden. I am quite convinced that we have a very responsible government on this issue, and I am for a number of reasons. The Government itself mentioned that road safety is an important issue. This shows not least the road safety work that has now been started with all the players in the industry. We had a first sitting about a month ago. The opposition was also invited to participate in that work. That's part of this. Alkobommar is one part; road safety work is another part. Alkobommar is very much a part of our road safety work in the country. So I feel safe, and I think that Sten Bergheden could do so in the case of the alcoboms. I would like to remind Sten Bergheden once again of the eight years of bourgeois government. It is possible to pursue a policy in the majority and another policy in opposition. Sten Bergheden shows this very clearly in many parts. But sometimes there is also the possibility of thoughtfulness. What could we accomplish in the eight years we were in power, and what are we running in opposition? It seems Sten Bergheden forgets in many parts.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-542	Mr President, I would like to It is, as I said, easy to push in opposition, and it is surely an important role for the opposition to do so. The Social Democrats did so on this issue not very long ago, and now the Moderates do. I believe that the efforts of both parties will bear fruit. Road safety work is important, and it cannot be limited to introducing alcoboms in our ports. There is also a constant need to develop new forms. More recently, what we can see is a deterioration in the development of vulnerable road users, not least in the urban environment. There we have an increasing number of accident statistics, not least among cyclists. That is why we need to take action in those traffic environments too. We have, I would say, had a huge focus on road traffic and car traffic. We now need to shift focus to focus more on the unprotected road users. In the case of alcoboms, the gentlemen could have heard in the previous lines that there is a message from the government. I therefore maintain that you will not be disappointed, I do not think, in any case, but that there will be a message.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-547	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me whether it is my position that the current situation, in which the Maritime Administration is not compensated for helicopter operations outside maritime and air rescue, is satisfactory. First of all, I would like to point out that Edward Riedl's party colleague Jessica Rosencrantz presented a similar interpellation last September. Since nothing in substance has changed since then, the answer will be based on what was said even then. The Swedish Maritime Administration is the responsible authority for maritime and air rescue in Sweden's area of responsibility according to the Accident Protection Act and the Accident Protection Regulation. A state grant is paid for reimbursement of the expenses incurred by the Swedish Maritime Administration for the costs incurred in various sea rescue missions that are outside the liability of merchant shipping but are within its responsibility. According to the Accident Protection Act, state resources must be available when municipal emergency services need them. In June last year, the Swedish Maritime Administration decided that the helicopter resources of the Swedish Maritime Administration should be at the disposal of the municipal emergency services free of charge under certain given conditions in accordance with the Accident Protection Act. I have been informed that the Swedish Maritime Administration intends to carry out an evaluation of the impact of the June decision last year. This evaluation will be presented in autumn 2016.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-552	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When the sulphur directive came into force during the last parliamentary term, it meant increased costs for commercial Swedish shipping. The Swedish merchant fleet was already under severe strain. We had repeated debates in this House on that particular issue. The Alliance government's response was what came to be called the maritime billion, that is, money set aside for commercial shipping, the Swedish merchant fleet, to have some breathing space despite the new charges. Mr President, I would like to It was a very high tone from the Social Democrats at that time, when they were in opposition. But government now chooses not to extend much of what was the maritime billion. Some parts are kept, but large parts are now removed. Commercial shipping and aviation finance most of the rescue activities. It is reasonable, and that is the way it should be, that they bear the costs. But the Swedish merchant fleet is, as I said, heavily strained. Then it is important that there is order in terms of what it should pay and what should be financed with funds. It is good that the overcapacity we have in maritime and air rescue can be used by the municipal emergency services. We fully agree on that. I do not think there is a party against that. In emergencies, wherever they occur, the collective resources of society should of course be made available in one way or another. Again, order is important. This could be done before 2015 as well. Before 2015, an invoice from the rescue services was sent to the municipal emergency services. In 2015, this was removed. The question then is whether it is the Swedish merchant fleet that will pay for the municipal emergency services or not. The Government answers that nothing has happened in substance since she replied to my party colleague Jessica Rosencrantz last September. Preliminary figures show, or at least indicate, that there is a significant increase in municipal use of the sea and air rescue resources we have. Does the Minister think that the Swedish merchant fleet should pay for increased municipal use of sea and air rescue resources?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-561	Mr President, I would like to I could start with a counter-question: Does Edward Riedl think that the Swedish Maritime Administration should break the law and charge the municipalities for government services? This is what was discovered in 2015. It was concluded that since this was a state resource, it should be at the disposal of the municipalities without cost responsibility for the municipalities. The information I have is that the costs for the Swedish Maritime Administration per year amount to perhaps a few hundred thousand. This means that this is not a burdensome cost for the Maritime Administration, but is capable of managing the additional costs within the existing framework. It would certainly have no impact on fairway fees or other fees from the merchant fleet if we were to revert to a regime in which this service was not provided at no cost to the municipalities, as it is so small amounts. I welcome the fact that the Swedish Maritime Administration is reviewing this, as it intends to do. One should return with an answer this autumn, where one can also see if this has had undesirable effects on the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances or on the activities carried out, as well as if there is an overuse, as Edward Riedl suggests in his question. But I am happy to await the results of the Swedish Maritime Administration's work. At present, there is no alarming information that this would be a burdensome task for the Swedish Maritime Administration to deal with.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-564	Mr President, I would like to Let me answer the Minister's two questions. No, I don't think the government should break the law. It would be extremely foolish to do so. I don't mind doing it again in the way they did, so that the business ended up in a state of authority. Because that's what happened: the rescue of the sea ended up in government form, and that's when this problem arose. Nor do I think that there is an over-exploitation. Let me be clear about that. J ag thinks it is good that all the resources of society can be used when emergencies occur. It may be a matter of searching for missing children or the like. There's no one who's on the other hand, is there? But that is not what this issue is about. The question is who is going to pay for the different parts of the business. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government added resources to the marine and aviation rescue as part-compensation for the increase in the costs of the Sulphur Directive by the merchant fleet. Is the Minister's position that this initiative should instead be used for municipal rescue services? I have two questions for the Minister, and I hope she can answer them at once, as I did. Does the Minister promise that there will be order between the various parts in terms of the sources of funding for sea and air rescue? And if it is not orderly, i.e. if the municipal part uses so much resources that it is by definition the Swedish merchant fleet that finances the municipal rescue services, can the Minister promise that she will provide government money for this, so that it does not burden an already heavily strained Swedish merchant fleet?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-569	Mr President, I would like to As I tried to describe in my previous post, there is currently no indication that this is such a burdensome expense for the Swedish Maritime Administration that any action needs to be taken. The Swedish Maritime Administration is currently looking at this and will describe the situation this autumn. We have the opportunity to act on the basis of the data that will then emerge. But at present there is nothing to suggest that this is a problem, more than possibly interpellations in the Swedish parliament. As far as the SECA directive is concerned, I can see that the increased costs of shipping resulting from this have been very much offset by the low oil prices. The concerns about the introduction of the SECA directive have been largely disappointed, and this is a good thing for the Swedish merchant fleet. This also makes this issue even more out of date. I am still awaiting the Swedish Maritime Administration's report on this issue and have no intention of acting until I have clear indications that there is reason to do so.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-572	Mr President, I would like to It would have been interesting if we had been able to travel on time to the debates we had a few years ago, when the Social Democrats were appalled and raged that we were not going to invest more in the Swedish merchant fleet than we actually did. But as soon as they came into government, they took back the money we set aside for Swedish shipping, and they say that basically there is not so much problem because oil prices are low. It is interesting how debates can develop over time and depending on whether you are in a government position or not. It is true, as the Minister says, that the Swedish Maritime Administration is reviewing this. This is done because there have been fears that things are not right and that things are not orderly. The Minister repeats this, and I can only note that the preliminary figures show a significant increase in the use of sea and air rescue resources by the municipal emergency services. In such a case, we have some displacement effects, where it is the Swedish merchant fleet and commercial aviation that fund things that might be financed with funds. I repeat my two questions. I have tried to answer the Minister's questions. Can the Minister promise that there will be order and order in this business? Can the Minister promise that if this is not the case, it will be controlled and funding the parts that should be funded, i.e. that you do not take more money from the Swedish merchant fleet?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-575	Mr President, I would like to I have not understood that there would be no order in this business. In general, I think it is good to try to solve problems that exist and not in advance, presumptuously, try to solve problems that may arise or possibly exist. I am simply waiting for the information that the Swedish Maritime Administration will provide this autumn. Should it turn out that this is a problem and that there are undesirable effects, then we will have to deal with it. At present, however, there is no indication that this would be a major problem and would be a disadvantage to the merchant fleet. I would also like to remind you that for quite a long time – in fact all eight years that Edward Riedl's party was in government – a tonnage tax was investigated or discussed. We are introducing it now, and it will bring great benefits to the Swedish merchant fleet. Perhaps it is a couple of hundred thousand SEK per year that the Swedish Maritime Administration uses for municipal rescue operations a rather small problem, while the introduction of the tonnage tax and thus improving the competitive position of Swedish shipping is a very welcome and much more important measure to strengthen the Swedish merchant fleet.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-578	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me whether I intend to review the regulations on tow for the combination that is longer than 25.5 metres. I should like to congratulate Edward Riedl on the decision taken by the government on 23 March this year to amend the Traffic Regulation to make it easier to tow lorries, buses and other longer vehicle combinations. The new wording of the Traffic Regulation means that the salvage of longer combinations of vehicles will be possible without a special exception. If circumstances require this and special care is taken, salvage may be carried out by combination longer than 25.25 metres.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-581	Mr President, I would like to This may be a brief debate. I would just like to thank the Minister for the answer, and I note that the government did this one day after I put my interpellation. I think that was quick work by the government. It was a little fun that we had the same thought at the same time. That's a good change. It makes what had to be done in the past, i.e. to salvage longer combinations of vehicles, possible to do without breaking the law. It's a good decision. I have nothing more to add to the debate. Quick work, I guess you just have to tell the minister.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-584	Mr President, I would like to The government is certainly fast and efficient. But we weren't really so fast that we managed to solve this until the next day thanks to the fact that we got an interpellation from Edward Riedl. However, this was a work that was going on. We can say that it is important to ensure that there are salvage possibilities with longer and heavier combinations of vehicles. Now we have solved this problem and look forward to safer and more efficient salvages of long buses and other things in the future.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-585	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me when Swedish licence holders for snowmobiles can expect it to be allowed to drive on both sides of the Swedish-Norwegian border. The right to drive snowmobiles is regulated nationally, i.e. that each country can have its own rules for permissions and where to drive. Sweden accepts the competence of Norwegian and other countries to drive snowmobiles in Sweden and believes that this possibility should be mutual. Norwegian authorities unfortunately do not accept the Swedish licence to drive snowmobiles in Norway. The basis for this is a revised interpretation of the Norwegian driving licence law made by the Norwegian authorities after they introduced the qualification requirement as a specific driving licence certificate. Edward Riedl and I agree that the Norwegian interpretation has caused great difficulties for Swedish snowmobile users, including rescue services and, above all, the reindeer industry, who are in need of travelling in Norway. I have previously replied to Edward Riedl in an interpellation debate on the same subject that the government attaches great importance to facilitating cross-border snowmobile traffic between Sweden and Norway. The snowmobile is important in a large part of Sweden, both as leisure vehicles and as work vehicles. This also applies, of course, to the possibilities of driving snowmobiles in Norway with the support of a Swedish licence. Unfortunately, the Swedish Government is unable to change the Norwegian Government's interpretation of a regulatory framework in Norway, but can conclude that in the case of other licences and driving licences these accepted countries are between them. The Ministry of Industry, both myself and Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, has raised this issue on several occasions with our Norwegian counterparts. This has resulted in an ongoing dialogue with the Norwegian Ministry of Samferdsel to find a solution to the issue. The Ministry of Society examines the question of whether current Norwegian rules can be used to enable people with Swedish competence to drive snowmobiles in Norway or whether another solution needs to be developed.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-590	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Norwegian driving licence for snowmobiles is valid in Sweden at the same time as a new Norwegian interpretation, a few years ago, means that Swedish driving licence for snowmobiles is no longer valid in Norway. As the Minister describes, this is the case for reindeer farming, rescue services and Swedish snowmobilers who move around the border areas. We are in complete agreement there, Mr President. However, I find it difficult to understand that it will take so long for the Swedish Government to come up with a solution with the Norwegian Government. I have raised the issue with the Minister on previous occasions. Then it has sounded like a solution has still been close. But time continues to pass, and no solution seems to be in sight. The current situation is not reasonable between two countries such as Sweden and Norway in this area. It is the Minister's responsibility to resolve the matter. Mr President, I would like to When does the Minister think this issue will be resolved?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-594	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I expressed my hope when the issue was debated in this Chamber not long ago. The reason for this was that on that occasion I thought there would be a solution within reach and within a short time. That has not proved to be the case. I would like to point out that how the Norwegian authorities interpret Norwegian rules is not a responsibility for the Swedish Government. However, the Swedish Government has repeatedly pointed out to the Norwegian Government that this is a major problem. I myself, but also the Secretary of State, have done so in contacts with the Norwegian Minister on repeated occasions. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has done so in contact with his colleague. The Minister for the Nordic Region, Kristina Persson, has also pointed out on various occasions that this is a major problem. I understand that there is no resistance in the Norwegian Government, and I find it a little difficult to understand what is causing this issue not to be resolved. I can assure Edward Riedl that the Swedish Government will continue to press for change. However, we have no way of changing interpretations of Norwegian laws in Norway, but we must be content to try to influence to the extent that we are able to do so. I look forward to a positive response from the Norwegian Government in the near future, but, unfortunately, I cannot at present give any information as to when this might come.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-597	Mr President, I would like to Like the Minister, I cannot understand how this is going to take so long. When two countries such as Sweden and Norway are unable to resolve such a question and it goes several years, one can think about what makes it not progress. I can only, as I have done in previous debates, urge the Minister to actually raise the issue seriously with his Norwegian colleagues and ensure that it is a solution. Again, it is the responsibility of the Swedish Government to resolve the matter with its Norwegian counterpart. It can't take forever. I do not think we should prolong the debate unnecessarily, but I venture, Mr President, to ask the Minister whether she can envisage further pressure on the Norwegian Government. It must be in that way that we recognise each other's driver's certificates and driving licences in this area, as we do in other areas. Everything else is completely unreasonable. It can't take forever. What does the Minister intend to do to resolve this issue? I understand that the Swedish Government cannot go in and give the Norwegian authority any kind of directive. But one should reasonably be able to do something.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-601	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have repeatedly pointed out to the Norwegian Government that this is problematic. There have also been contacts between the authorities. I hope there will soon be a response to this issue. But it is not the responsibility of the Swedish Government how the Norwegian Government acts or how the Norwegian authorities act. This possibility has only the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian authorities. I find it difficult to see that at this point we can do so much more than point out the problem and engage in discussions with the Norwegian Government. And if it is true that this is a problem that has existed for several years, as Edward Riedl puts it, then it is clear that we share the failure of several Swedish governments. I find it extremely unfortunate that the issue has not been resolved. It is important for cross-border trade. It's important for the reindeer industry. It is also important for us to be able to get effective rescue operations. I have not understood that there is opposition on the part of the Norwegian Government. But I welcome both Edward Riedl and others who have contacts with party friends on the other side of the Norwegian-Swedish border to also ask the question. We would like this to be resolved as quickly as possible.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-605	Mr President, I would like to No, in this case there is, as I see it, no shared responsibility between the previous government and the current one, because this problem arose while we got an S- and MP government in this country – two completely uncorrelated accidents, but they occurred roughly at the same time. It is the responsibility of the Swedish Government to solve these kinds of border barriers and problems. There is no one else in Sweden who can do this. Of course, we from the opposition can assist in various ways, but it must still be the Swedish Government that solves these kinds of issues. We have no authority other than the government. I can only call on the government to find a solution as a matter of urgency once again today. It can't be the way this is going to drag out more time than it has already. I wish the government every success in solving this task.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-608	Mr President, I would like to We will continue to have contacts with the Norwegian Government and continue to promote the importance of a rapid solution to this issue. There should also reasonably be an interest on the Norwegian side that, for example, civil protection comes forward and that we can strengthen Norwegian-Swedish relations and cross-border business in different ways. I will, of course, continue to press for a solution to be found, but I maintain that it is the Norwegian Government that has the solution in its hand. The Swedish government can speak out and press but not unilaterally find a solution. I think we'd have done it a long time ago.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-610	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked what I intend to do to increase the number of electric cars in Sweden. Electric vehicles may play a very important role in achieving a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Electric vehicles have great advantages both in reducing CO2 emissions and in reducing noise and emissions of, for example, particulate matter and nitrogen oxides. The government has therefore taken a number of initiatives to stimulate the introduction of electric vehicles. These include, among other things, an extension and increase of the grant for the super-environmental car premium for 2016 as well as an extended reduction in the benefit value of electric cars and charging hybrids until 2019. In order to promote the introduction of electric buses into the market, the government is introducing an electricity premium this year. The government also supports you investments in charging infrastructure through climate change. Only so far has support for about 1 600 charging points been decided. In addition, the government is currently investigating how a bonus – malus system can be designed and how environmental zone regulations can be developed to reward emission-free and silent vehicles.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-614	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If we speed up the pace of electric cars, this is an area where, in addition to a better environment, there may be future Swedish export successes and many new jobs. There are only winners if we are at the forefront in this area. I want to make it clear that I think it is a good thing that the current government continues in many ways with the alliance government's policy of promoting electric car sales. It is good if we can have as broad political agreement as possible on these kinds of issues, because there are long investment horizons when buying both buses and cars, private or for commercial purposes. From the beginning, as I said, the new government did not choose to pursue the alliance government's ambition to raise the super-environmental car premium. But if I interpret the Minister's answer correctly, Mr President, it is intended to raise the super-environmental car premium from today's SEK 40 000. The question then is to what. That's not what the minister writes. It would be very interesting if she could tell me, but if I understood the answer correctly, you intend to increase the super-environmental car premium, and that is in such cases very good. After all, it is that additional costs make it a bit difficult to sell these cars from the start, not least to the private market. The additional cost is somewhere between 100 000 and 150 000 SEK, which Bil Sweden and others have calculated. It is a significant barrier that is to be overcome right now before we get the price down, and the price will probably come down when we get the sales up. That is why it is important to have the super-environmental car premium and that it is at such a level that it also seriously helps private motorists to make this investment. Then it is that the current government's policy on roads, if it does not choose to give them the same priority in future as in the past, is not good. Queues and poor accessibility are just as bad whether you're in an ordinary car that goes on fossil fuels or in an electric car. In addition, the current government risks speeding up nuclear decommissioning before there are good options to reduce electricity generation. Then the electric cars simply become less smart. In some other countries where you have good electric car sales, you have a very dirty electricity production, and then the environmental cars are not as good as they could be. You get a better environment in the inner cities, but you won't win anything in terms of the climate. Mr President, I would like to Could the Minister consider increasing the funding for the environmental car premium from today's SEK 40,000 to promote the sale of both electric cars and charging hybrids, and if so, how much?
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-621	Mr President, I would like to I have to say, this is a rather strange interpellation. The discussion on electric cars is usually conducted in the context of environmentally friendly transport, but in this interpellation it seems to be the car that is at the centre, no matter what, and it is being put against the railway. I do not believe that such a policy should be pursued. I do not think it is particularly wise to do so if we want to switch to environmentally friendly transport. If we are to switch to environmentally friendly transport, we need to see the benefits of all modes of transport. Therefore, one should probably not have the starting point that the interpellier has in this case. As the Minister points out in his reply, much is being done today. Climate change, which concerns charging infrastructure, is a good example, where I think it is more than 100 out of 160 applications that have been granted. This is all over the country, from Norrbotten in the north to Skåne in the south, so it is clear that the climate category that the government has now set aside resources to ensure that it expands charging- in nfrastructure throughout the country. To this we add a super environmental car premium that has a clearer focus on clean electric cars. However, in order to be able to pursue an active environmental policy and to obtain the resources to pursue an active environmental policy in relation to the fleet of vehicles, priority must also be given to what is environmentally friendly and what is not a little lower in environmental terms. This is where the Moderates have their great weakness in environmental policy, for the Moderates answer is almost always: Build more roads! Then there is a pious hope that electric cars will drive on the roads, but it is never ever so that the Moderates are also prepared to say that what pollutes much enough will have to be punished with a little higher costs. When you stand here in debates and talk about, for example, diesel taxes and petrol taxes, yes, it is the same from the Moderates: keep the taxes down so that we can benefit cars on the roads no matter what they look like! I believe that Moderates' environmental policy would also have benefited by taking a clearer stand for what is environmentally friendly, against what is polluting the environment.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-627	Mr President, I would like to There are actually quite a lot of different parts in changing the transport system in order to become more sustainable. I also think it is important to see in this context that the conditions for transport, both freight and passenger transport, are very different in different parts of the country. That is why different measures are needed in different parts of the country. If you look, for example, at the municipalities or parts of municipalities that are heavily burdened by congestion, there may not be more of either electric cars or any other cars that are needed in the first place, but rather more efficient, comfortable and reliable public transport solutions. Environmental cars solve some problems. They solve problems with particles, noise and exhaust gases. But they do not solve congestion problems. Therefore, I think you should be rather careful to express yourself as the interpellier does in the interpellation, namely to say that you want more electric cars. I would like to say that the important thing is to increase the proportion of electric cars in relation to conventional fuel cars. Having said that, I note that the current government has increased the appropriation for the super-environmental car premium. However, this does not mean that the premium you can get for each driven car increases. This means, however, that those who apply for a super-environmental car premium will also receive it to a greater extent. The appropriations allocated by the previous government for this purpose were not sufficient. If not everyone who should have it can have it, it does not really have the effect that was intended. That is why this government has increased the appropriations. We have also made a change so that clean electric cars get a higher subsidy rate than hybrid cars, which will be another push to choose the least climate impact option. In addition, I would like to mention that we also need to work with other parts. It is not quite that simple that if we just replace all cars with electric cars, we have solved all the problems with a sustainable transport system. We also need to work with more energy efficient transport, and we need to use different types of logistics arrangements, more car sharing and more public transport. We also need to expand the different modes of transport that benefit the climate and contribute to truly sustainable transport systems – not just in terms of climate. I would like to point out that we are doing more than I said in my first speech. We are now investigating a bonus – Malus system, which will mean that we get a cost neutrality. So we make it relatively more expensive to make the wrong choice and relatively cheaper to make more environmentally sound choices. This means that we have the opportunity to control consumption to, for example, more electric cars in the future. The impact of different types of economic incentives on purchasing behaviour is an important part of a transition. But that is not enough; we also need to create the conditions for people to choose electric cars. Edward Riedl himself has pointed out that the price is an inhibitory factor, but I think there are more. For example, there has been uncertainty about how efficient and functional electric cars are. We now see that technology makes them go further and work better. There has also been uncertainty about what the charging infrastructure looks like. We have now begun to look at this as well.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-636	Mr President, I would like to Let me first respond to the speech by my fellow MEP, Rikard Larsson. He meant that I somehow set road and rail against each other. I want to be clear about saying that I absolutely did not. What I said, however, was that if we are to have a fossil-free vehicle fleet, it requires roads. This requires increased sales of electric cars and clean energy production. These are components that are required if we are to have a fossil-free vehicle fleet. You can dress it, as both Rikard Larsson and the Minister do, in that you do not really want cars and roads and that you should not, as we Moderates, stand up for us to have low costs of petrol, that is, not to impose penalties on the countryside and those who have long distances. But that's two completely different things. I mean that charging hybrids, electric cars and ultimately electrified roads are the future. It will create both Swedish export success as well as new jobs and a better environment. But electric car sales are increasing far too slowly for it to take the place it needs. Electric cars are too expensive to buy. I have nothing against a bonus – the Malus system, which the Minister says has now been set up. It contributes in this direction and, of course, it can be a good thing in the right shape. Wrongly designed, it punishes those who have no alternatives, and then it is not good. Mr President, I must apologise for having happened to praise the government. Apparently, it was all wrong of me. I thought from the Minister's intervention that an increase in the super-environmental car premium was in progress, but it was obviously a misconception on my part. I'm gonna have to take back the credit I accidentally gave to the government. Nevertheless, I put the question to the Minister: given that the cost of the cost is in the order of 100 000 – 150 000 to buy an electric vehicle or a charging hybrid – could the Minister imagine, just as the Alliance Government announced that if the government had remained in power, raising the level of the super-environmental car premium? Then it would be less costly if private motorists wanted to buy an environmental car.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-642	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl says he doesn't really understand where we got that he's putting railroads against roads or against motorism. Edward Riedl's interpellation states: It is therefore not possible to increase the number of electric cars in Sweden by spending more money on the railway. My point is that the interesting thing about this is transport. My point is that Edward Riedl is a little fixated on the car. If we are to turn society into more environmentally friendly transport, we also need to think about how we transport ourselves. Then public transport such as railways, trains and public transport is a good way of changing. But for Edward Riedl that flexibility does not work in the way of thinking, but for him a car is a car and a train is a train. For me, both the car and the train are modes of transport. That is what I think we need to bring with us if we are to succeed in transforming our transport into more environmentally friendly modes of transport. Edward Riedl says that the taxation of fossil fuels – although he described it in a different way – is something else. No, the taxation of fossil fuels is nothing else. The taxation of fossil fuels is also a way of keeping pressure on the transport sector to move from what is harmful to the environment to what is good for the environment. It is also a way to switch to electric cars instead of diesel or petrol vehicles.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-645	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I think you need to think about what you have in mind. It is important if we talk about increasing the number of electric cars, regardless of what happens in the transport system in general or if we see this as a whole. This shows that we need to transport both ourselves and goods in a more sustainable way than we do today. If you have that money, you need to tackle the problems from far more directions than simply making it cheaper to buy electric cars. I will continue where I left off in my previous post. In that perspective, I dare say that it is not only the price that discourages. If you look at the total cost of life for an electric car, you can see that it is significantly lower than for a conventional car because the fuel itself, that is, the electricity, is much cheaper. This gives you an advantageous operating cost for an electric car. But as long as the electric cars have not been able to show sufficient performance and as long as you have not been able to be sure that you can charge your car, it has of course held back the development. Now that we are making a decision to expand 1,650 charging points in Sweden, it will of course increase the security that you can also charge your car when you drive it. In line with technological developments with increasingly efficient batteries, longer life spans and ever longer driving distances and also cars that are not perceived as semi-nextly enthusiast cars but actually cars with high performance, where also premium brands produce electric cars, I am absolutely convinced that the development will go fairly quickly in the future. In addition to what I have already mentioned, the Government has also given the Swedish Energy Agency a mandate to coordinate work to increase the share of electric cars in Sweden. They have a focus on three areas in particular. It is a question of ensuring an energy transition in the transport sector. It is about keeping track of the charging infrastructure development, i.e. at what pace you are expanding and where you can charge. It is also about something that we have not touched on so far but which I think is quite essential in this context, and that is also to disseminate information about where the charging infrastructure is located. It has to do with the security that as a car owner and driver you know that and where you can charge so that you can plan your day or trip in a way so that you can ensure that you come back or get where you are going. All these three parts, the Swedish Energy Agency has been tasked with coordinating as late as January this year. Together with the other measures that the government has implemented or plans to implement and prepare for, I believe there are strong incentives for people to choose electric cars to a greater extent in the future. Possible future new rules for environmental zones may be another way, that is to say, excluding areas in cities where cars that emit particulate matter and carbon dioxide are actually allowed to drive, perhaps not primarily for climate reasons, but for health reasons. With many different measures in many different areas, we take quite large steps towards a fossil-independent vehicle fleet.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-651	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for this debate, too, but to say that the railways are of course important – as Mr Larsson and the Minister point out – and there is probably no one against – but it will not be able to replace the car in all parts of our country and for all people. I believe that those who listen to this debate understand that rail can be good in many places in many situations, but we will need the car in the future. That's the way it is. Then we can wish that all people could live along a railway, but that will not be the case. No matter how much we debate this, it will never look like that. We want a fossil-free vehicle fleet, and then it requires roads, as I said. These cars have to go on something, and it's roads. So we have to invest in roads. It also requires that we have increased sales of electric cars. This is almost semantics, because we have so low sales of electric cars and charging hybrids that I think it is much better to measure the number than the share of the vehicle fleet in the situation we are in. We mean exactly the same thing, but this is going to be more of a game of words. What we need is more electric cars than we have today if we are to meet the challenges of the future. Then we can help by facilitating on the sales side. We need clean energy production, that is to say, not to shut down nuclear power that is replaced by dirty energy. Then we have reached nothing in terms of the climate challenges. It is, of course, as the Minister says, that performance and reliability are also obstacles for consumers. Maybe it's the industry's job to solve it. We can influence with the price tag, and there comes the super environmental car premium. I would like to end this debate by saying that I wish the government would take this challenge seriously, and then we need to increase the super-environmental car premium. It'll be my last shipment to the minister.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-655	Mr President, I would like to I welcome Moderates' newly awakened interest in the climate issue and, at the same time, note that it is sad that we do not see that the challenges we have are also huge opportunities. It is a rather defensive attitude from the Moderates on this issue which states that we need to have more cars and retain nuclear power. All forecasts show that with energy efficiency, smarter solutions and new and better technologies, we can both phase out nuclear power and increase the share of renewable energy – it does not cause a terrible environmental impact in other parts of the world, as nuclear energy actually does and also poses great risks – and change the traffic system both by adding more public transport solutions and by ensuring that the existing fleet is less climate-friendly. In fact, I am very positive about the future, and I would have liked the Moderates too to be able to step out of the car and nuclear safeguards and welcome a fossil- and nuclear-free future with renewable energy sources and a sustainable transport system. It's within range. We see today that the proportion of vehicles using alternative fuels is 20%. The goal was to reach 10% by this time. Progress is progressing rapidly. In fact, there is every reason to take a very positive view of this development in the future.
i-WbXjn3pkq6msLTuNb4dqJM	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson has asked me if I share Anders Åkesson's assessment of the need for a well-developed and functioning transport infrastructure for the realisation of a regional enlargement and whether the so-called rural investment, which forms part of the allocation for transport infrastructure in the 2016 state budget, is considered earmarked for maintenance and rehabilitation measures outside the main railway network. The government's overall objective for transport policy is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. A prerequisite for achieving this is, of course, the existence of a functioning transport infrastructure capable of meeting the needs and demands of transport and travel. Increased accessibility creates regional integration and enlargement, which has a major positive impact on growth one, unemployment one and the labour market. In the 2016 budget, the Government has implemented an investment in improving road and rail maintenance in rural areas. The total investment amounts to SEK 800 million during the period 2016 – 2019. The Finnish Transport Agency has been commissioned by the Government to report on maintenance measures in the railway system that can in the near future increase functionality outside the large and busiest routes with the aim of promoting regional growth and rural conditions. Trafikverket has carried out this task in consultation with regional representatives who have contributed with comments and suggestions on measures taken into account by Trafikverket. In its reporting, the Swedish Transport Administration reports on a number of maintenance measures that are planned to be carried out. The measures are concentrated on smaller routes or routes where the measures contribute to promoting rural conditions, that is, in line with the intentions of the government in this effort.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-661	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Johansson, for your answer! The background to my question was that the said railway system in southeastern Sweden was equipped more than 20 years ago, and then it has been weak with both maintenance and upgrades. There is a very great regional commitment to this rail system working much better and being able to take a greater share of the transport work. This means both passenger and freight traffic. That is why, Mr President, there was some hope for the rural effort that the government has in this year's budget. I want to remember that it is SEK 400 million this year, and then it is additional money that will be distributed for a few years to come. In a previous debate with the Government, I have raised the issue of the need for reinvestment and increased maintenance in the finely-meshed county railway network, as it used to be called, which runs alongside the main roads. Then I was reassured that things were going to work out. I and many with me interpreted that answer as being part of the solution of the rural effort that we could see in this year's budget. According to information that I have read and that I intend to hand over to the Government, many small and important measures have indeed been taken. There's a long list, a whole Excel sheet. However, there are also examples of measures with very large efforts in the main rail system in southern Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I do not question the need for action in the Southern Main Line. Both the Government and I know that it is a very worn-out part of the Swedish rail system. But what was earmarked for rural investment has been put on change in Hästveda, Mosselund or Ballingslöv. It is true that these are land types, but it is still the southern main line we are talking about. It is a question of amounts which go far beyond the investments and important point-by-point efforts made in the context of rural development, and it was on this basis, Mr President, that I asked my question. The small stakes are stakes in the million- or half-million-dollar class. There are stops and better accessibility in the fine-meshed collective system. But when it comes to change of gear on the South Main Line, we are talking about the 20–30 million SEK level. That was not what was intended, and it is precisely the resources that I perceive that I and the Government agreed to go to the fine-meshed rail system alongside the main roads. 400 million SEK is an enormous amount of money, but it is a gutter in comparison to the total maintenance money that we spend annually, according to what we agreed on, on the Swedish rail system. That is why, Mr President, I asked the question: can the rural effort announced by the government in the 2016 budget be considered earmarked for maintenance and rehabilitation measures outside the main rail system? On that I have received a very good answer, but unfortunately I have information that suggests that large resources of the earmarked are running wrong. I know that the Government cannot comment on individual matters in a parliamentary debate, but I ask her to bring the knowledge and perhaps ask the question again to the Swedish Transport Administration so that we get the money to go where we want.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-669	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Anders Åkesson for having put this interpellation and thank Minister Anna Johansson for the answer. That I now want to use a few minutes of the Government's time to try to give another picture of how we are doing and how we feel about it in Kalmar County, I hope the Government will forgive me. Anders Åkesson has primarily touched on Stångådalsbanan, as I understood it, but he has still mentioned Tjustbanan. That's the one I was going to add a little bit. As the Government itself says, infrastructure plays a role, not least when it makes regions connect. In this case, I want to talk about the labour market region. Västervik municipality is perhaps the only municipality except Gotland, which is a labour market region in a municipality south of Dalälven, which is very rare. Our connection is primarily to Linköping, which is the nearest city in terms of communication. The road that goes there cannot replace the railway because it is too bad. Even if it were to be improved, the laws we have here in Sweden will not allow you to leave as soon as you need to get down in the time needed to make it attractive and possible to have a combined labour market region. In contrast to other tracks and tracks, the latest upgrades were made on the Tjust Line in the 60's. It's been a while, as I'm sure the government knows. I participated in the early 2000s, a ten fifteen years ago, and influenced the then Minister Messing Messing, who in his plan put in 200 million for an upgrade of Tjustbanan north of Åtvidaberg towards Linköping. Unfortunately, that money disappeared when we got a new minister, who was and may still be – I don't know – in the same party as Anders. That money went missing. Now there has been some renovation, but it has been done with the help of maintenance money from both Trafikverket and the Regional Association. That's not enough for a long time. What I would like to see are precisely the things that we write about in various plans: looking at the fine-meshed network when it comes to railways and its great importance for getting functioning regions, but also thinking about what it looks like in south-eastern Sweden. We don't have big roads, airports or railways. All three components are missing. Rail is the only thing that, from an environmental and transport point of view, could help us to have a larger labour market region and a better situation than we have today. I look forward to our being able to share this with you.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-678	Mr President, I would like to We note that the Swedish rail network suffers from quite a number of years of wrongdoing. To that many governments back in time are guilty. In the interpellation debate just now, there was talk of the need for more cars. I think that was a clear focus of transport policy for quite a long time. It was private carism that would solve accessibility, and it meant greater freedom. I think the railroad seemed a little out of date. Now we look at this differently. We see that rail traffic has increased, especially regional passenger traffic. It provides both additional wear and tear as well as an increased need for railway capacity to meet the transport needs of both goods and people. It can be said that the 1.24 plus 100 billion plus 100 million allocated by the government for railway maintenance is necessary, but of course they will not be enough to restore or improve the quality of the Swedish railway facility in such a way that all routes throughout the country will achieve sufficient quality in the near future. I can also say that if you have a track that has not been equipped since the 1960s, the 100 million set aside for maintenance in rural areas will probably not be able to cover the need for rehabilitation. But the government's efforts, which represent a 20% increase in the maintenance grant compared to the previous level, are well on the way to an improved railway. There is no prohibition in the commission to Trafikverket against using the 100 million intended to improve rural accessibility in the main rail network. Where it is considered that such measures are important to increase accessibility, it is self-evident where the money should be spent. Not all parts of the main rail network belong to the busiest or provide traffic for the big cities, but the main rail network also has an important role to play in ensuring that the countryside is supplied with good rail connections. As I mentioned in my reply to Anders Åkesson's interpellation, the Swedish Transport Administration has made these priorities in consultation with regions and local representatives to ensure that the money ends up where it is most useful. I understand very well that you can find many places where you would also have to spend more money, but we have to do what we can with what we have. That's the way it usually is, and that's the way it is now. But what we have is in any case much more now than it was when Anders Åkesson's party was in charge.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-686	Mr President, I would like to We can, of course, devote an interpellation debate to discussing which minister and which government has done what. I think we should agree that, regardless of the color of the government, too little has been done to maintain the Swedish transport infrastructure over the last 20 to 30 years. There are those who say that the total debt amounts to SEK 200 - 300 billion. It is quite correct that the Government describes it, that the direction that the railways are useful and that they fulfil a function has not always been as clear as in the last 15 years, regardless of the color of the government. This is a clear direction that has been linked to liberalisation. We gave county transport companies an opportunity to develop regional rail transport. Then traffic and pressure on the system increased. Mr President, I would like to It is in this perspective that you should see the interpellation. With increased regional passenger traffic and increased insight among companies using rail for freight transport, demand for the fine-meshed railway network has also increased. Now I took up a Småland example because I come from there and have been alerted to it. People in my environment have expressed hope for the rural situation announced by the government in 2016. Now they express disappointment that the system does not work because you feel that the money goes to the wrong things. At least that's how it was understood, but it could be a misconception. We must take it upon ourselves that if the whole is to work, if Sweden is to function – regardless of the colour of the government – and if people are to travel more and expand their labour market regions and companies to receive and deliver goods and goods in an environmentally smart way, both roads and railways must work. The railways in particular have a wide range, as Krister Örnfjäder has just said. Sure, more money is being spent on maintenance. I would like to counter that under the alliance government the maintenance allowance was also increased. But overall, the Government has a budget of 50 billion, half of which goes by road and half by rail. Then there is also some small money for something else. Half of the railway money goes to new investment and the rest to operation and maintenance. This means that in round rolls 10 – 12 billion SEK is handled each year to maintain the Swedish railway network. Of this money, a few hundred million dollars were earmarked. As I and many have understood, in an interpellation debate last year, the Government announced that this money would be earmarked for the fine-meshed system alongside the tribal system. There was criticism, and there was also when we had confidence to lead the government work, that it was in particular the great system, the nodes and the main track that were entertained, while the side systems had to decay. It is against this background that I highlighted the example of the money that did not get there where they should come, whether it is called Stångådalsban a n, Tjustbanan or whether it is a track somewhere in Västernorrland or on the west coast. I would just like to appeal to the Government to press the Transport Agency once again and make sure that the money goes where it is useful throughout the system. The railway is a system. Without the whole thing, it doesn't work.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-695	Mr President, I would like to I have had the privilege of being a Member of Parliament for so long that I have no hope that one can argue and want money to solve a problem in its entirety. On the other hand, I still live with the hope that problems can be solved by providing information on the needs that exist and not least through the decisions that we jointly take on orientations. With this as a background, one looks at the whole. I mentioned the example of the course from Västervik to Linköping. It was upgraded in the 1960s. Then, of course, it has been maintained, otherwise it would not have existed at all. What I am concerned about is that at one stage we are deciding on something, but at the next stage we are not delivering the conditions necessary for the first decision to work. Whatever the government, there's a difference. We made a decision a number of years ago that meant looking at the needs of Sweden as a whole. This would also allow resources to be distributed in such a way that different modes of transport are looked at to meet different needs. In this way, not all bets would risk ending up in the same place. We are beginning to come back to the fact that more and more of the accumulated resources are now going to the same places, while others are not getting any resources. I hope that the Minister will help so that it does not continue in this way but that the whole of Sweden will live.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-699	Mr President, I would like to That all of Sweden should live and that it should be possible to live, work, study and have a rich life in all parts of Sweden is a clearly stated goal for the government. When we talk about a Sweden that sticks together, it is of course geographically, between people with different economic conditions and between people with different backgrounds, i.e. that it is a holistic view of Sweden in all its different parts. There, the transport sector is an important instrument for achieving the objectives of jobs and good life for all inhabitants of Sweden. Having said that, unfortunately, it does not mean that we have endless resources for these objectives. The previous government had a very clearly stated priority, that it should invest entirely on the most busy routes. Now the current government has provided more funding for railway maintenance at all. In this context, it can be noted that the bourgeois parties agreed and were very pleased with the increase made by the alliance government before the change of government. When it was possible to vote down the proposal for an increase of an additional 1.24 billion, it was done in Parliament when we decided on the 2015 budget. Now the increased funding is in place. They're absolutely necessary. In addition, we have raised another 100 million specifically to increase the accessibility of the rail system in rural areas. Work has now begun on paying out this money and making good use of it. In what way they are distributed and what assessment the Swedish Transport Administration makes of where the money does the greatest socio-economic benefit, I hand over with a warm hand to Trafikverket in consultation with regional actors. It would be extremely unfortunate if I were to tell the Finnish Transport Agency, as Minister, exactly for which distances the money will be spent. Since this is a system where different parts are interrelated and interdependent, it is a clear advantage if those who use the system, i.e. the regional and local actors, together with the Swedish Transport Administration, who has the greatest knowledge of the current state and needs of the system, find the objects that it is most important to start with. Having said that, with this 100 million, there will still be great needs, not least in the fine-meshed railway network in Sweden. At the same time, it should be recognised that the major problems we have with disturbances in the Swedish rail network arise around the big cities, where we have the biggest capacity problems and the most disrupting parts of the system. Of course, we must also make great efforts there to get away, for example, from the constant problems of signal errors south of Stockholm, which have repercussions throughout the system. In this perspective, it is not possible to put cities against rural areas, but we need to do both. But we have to deal with it in the order that we do what is most urgent first and then graze off at a reasonable rate allowed by public finances and other things.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-705	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anna Johansson for the discussion on a very important subject. 1.25 or 1.24 billion is an amazing amount of money. Even SEK 100 million is a lot of money, but it is closest to peanuts in the whole. However, it is important that these peanuts go where they are intended to go. I would like to appeal, Mr President, to Anna Johansson to follow up this rural effort properly. I'm not questioning the need to reinvest in the main line. But with a previous interpellation debate, there was a hope in southeastern Sweden and other parts of the country that the earmarked rural effort would make a difference in a very worn-out system, which we have not maintained for decades. We haven't done it correctly, no matter who's in charge. The money has not been enough, or the ambitions have been wrong. It is absolutely right: You also go from Västervik to Stockholm, and the whole route must work. The main pressure is around the big cities, and there is also the greatest need for maintenance. But it is also a whole system that must work all the way out into its finest capillary, whether it be the beautiful town of Västervik or Strömstad. Åsa Torstensson is still a very lively member of the Center Party. Thank you for the debate. I look forward to Anna Johansson following up on the issue. I am absolutely sure that we will see and hear more about this.
i-f2d5b2bd52e8278b-710	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying also in this discussion that there is broad agreement on the need for increased rail maintenance. This bodes well for the future in this area. I hope that there will also be broad agreement on the need not only to take action in the busiest parts of the system, but also to continue to improve the accessibility and quality of our rail system in less busy and less densely populated areas. I will, of course, continue to follow up the efforts made by the government and ensure that they have the intended effect. But in this case, I find it hard to see that the money would not have ended up where it was intended. There has been no explicit government ban on using the funds in the main rail network. On the other hand, it has been very clear that the money should benefit from rural accessibility. I cannot make any other assessment than that the money was used in such a way. Unfortunately, however, this does not mean that all the tracks have received this money, because although SEK 100 million is very much money, as Anders Åkesson points out, it is obviously not enough money to be able to fix all the problems in the Swedish rail system's fine mesh. Thank you for the interpellation and debate.
