i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-0	The motion proposes that the Riksdag should support and announce to the Government what is stated in the motion to introduce corresponding rules regarding the wishes and views of the population in the case of changes in the classification of county councils that apply to changes in the classification of municipalities. The President has held that the supplementary motion cannot be regarded as falling within the scope of Chapter 9. 12 § Parliamentary Order. The President therefore proposes that the House add the motion to the documents without reference to committees. The President gives the following reasons for his assessment. First of all, it can be noted that the proposal amends and relocates a large number of legislative provisions for purely legal reasons. These legislative amendments cannot be considered as proposals in the sense that they include a resale right. As can be seen from, among other things, the preparatory work for the latest review of the Parliamentary Order, the right of follow-up motion covers only the proposals put forward by the Government in the bill, but not the accounts that may otherwise be available. In practice, it is permitted to re-exercise alternatives to proposed proposals. If a motion for a motion is an alternative, it may be assessed in the light of the reasons for the Government's proposal. If the Government states that it does not intend to present a certain proposal announced earlier, it may, according to practice, initiate a follow-up motion with a different assessment in the form of a notice. The Government's proposal in the bill means that the division delegates will be appointed when new county councils are formed. The aim of the proposal is to avoid having to introduce specific legislation in the event of any major divisional change, which would lead to delays. The proposal aims only at the implementation of a change of classification decision. However, the proposal does not affect the conditions for a decision on a divisional change. The claim in the accompanying motion therefore relates to a different issue from the government's proposal, and the motion cannot be considered an alternative to this. On p. 17 of the bill, the government states for information that there are certain differences between regulations regarding changes in the classification of municipalities and county councils, including that special consideration should be given to the wishes and views of the population when changing the classification of municipalities. This statement cannot, however, in itself give rise to a right of follow-up motion as the Government does not present a position on the matter. Moreover, the issue has not been addressed in the interim report on which the proposal is based. In view of the foregoing, the President considers that the accompanying motion is outside the scope of the proposal. The President therefore considers that there are obstacles under Chapter 11. Section 7 The parliamentary order to make a proposal to refer the motion to committees.
i-A94w8mYo8Uwrcc5Gz8TN3c	Mr President, I would like to The Government has submitted to the Riksdag proposal 2015/ 16:121 Transitional government and equalization in the amended classification of municipalities and county councils. It contains various proposals to regulate the process of mergers of county councils and thus aims to enable the introduction of large regions in accordance with the mandate given to the state investigation called the Division Committee. The proposals involve a number of amendments and additions to the so-called Division Act, the Act on Sweden's division into municipalities and county councils. The Classification Act contains a provision which states that changes in the classification of municipalities must take particular account of the wishes and views of the population. Where there are reasons for this, a special study shall be carried out on the attitude of the population. The investigation may be carried out by means of a vote, an opinion poll or a similar procedure. There is no equivalent regulation in the case of changes in the county council classification. However, if county councils are merged into large regions, people's everyday lives can be affected as much as changes in the municipal classification – the county councils are, as you know, responsible for important functions such as health care and public transport. In addition, a transformation of today's county council into six major regions, in accordance with the proposal that the Division Committee is working on, would mean a very big change in society – the biggest change in Sweden's regional division since the 17th century and thus also a major change in how our country is governed. In view of this, there is every reason to give citizens the opportunity to express themselves in some form even in the case of county council mergers and not only in the case of municipal mergers. It is difficult to see any logical reason why the citizen's perspective would be less important when you merge county councils than when you merge municipalities. It is important that political decisions that affect people's everyday lives and are of great importance in principle are anchored in such a way that citizens are given influence and feel involved. In some parts of Sweden, for example in Halland, there are already strong opinions about the proposed major regions. It is a good illustration of why it is important that the wishes and views of the population are incorporated into the process in an organised manner and that there is legal support for this. The Alliance has submitted a follow-up motion to the Government's proposal and proposes that the Division Act should introduce corresponding rules regarding the population's wishes and views in the case of changes in the county council classification that apply to changes in the municipal classification. As we have heard, the President considers that the accompanying motion is not within the framework of the parliamentary order. He does not, therefore, wish to make a proposal to refer the motion to committees for consideration, based on the parliamentary order. I will now put forward a number of arguments against the President's position. There are five crack questions. The first question is: What is the proposal about – how can and should the subject of the proposal be described? One of the key proposals in the bill is the introduction of a new institute, delegated, which will exercise decision-making rights in place of the county council in case of changes in the county council classification. The proposal of the proposal – the framework of the case – therefore, in my opinion, concerns the democratic process in connection with divisional changes. The follow-up motion, as I have just described, also concerns the democratic process in connection with divisional changes. The second question is: How can and should the purpose of the bill be defined? According to parliamentary practice, follow-up movements may be initiated that contain additional and additional measures for the purpose of the bill. On p. 19 of the bill, the Government justifies its proposal, taking into account the mandate of the Division Committee. The overall purpose of the proposal may thus be considered to be that the assignment of the Division Committee – a reform of the classification of the county councils – can be completed and that the Committee's proposals can be implemented. The overall aim of the proposal is therefore to implement the whole process of major regional reform. Both the bill and the Alliance's follow-up motion concern the regulation of this process. The President contends that the purpose of the bill is merely to avoid having to introduce specific legislation in the event of any major divisional change. This is also in the bill. However, this seems to be an unreasonably narrowly defined objective, taking into account the reference to the role of the Division Committee which I have just read out. The third question is: Does a proposal in a proposal for editorial changes to a particular paragraph give the right to follow-up motion for changes to the substance of the paragraph? The follow-up exercise is in practice about changing two paragraphs of the Division Act. If you start from the proposed paragraph numbering in the bill, it will be 2 chapters. Sections 1 and 2 of Chapter 2. Section 7. The proposal contains proposals to amend Chapter 2 of the proposal. Section 1. Although the Government's proposal only entails editorial changes, it should nevertheless be considered within the framework of the case to propose amendments other than those proposed by the Government. The fourth question is: Is a proposal in a proposal for the introduction of a new paragraph which is essentially not equivalent in the current law to follow-up motion that the paragraph should have a slightly different shape from that proposed by the government? With regard to the second of the two provisions which the accompanying motion aims at, Chapter 2. Section 7, the Government's proposal in practice involves the introduction of a whole new paragraph – even if the paragraph number is also in the law currently in force. The version of 2 chapter. Section 7 proposed by the Government lacks its content equivalent to the law currently in force. If the Government proposes a new paragraph which, in substance, does not correspond to the law currently in force, it should be within the scope of the case to carry out a follow-up motion for the paragraph to be slightly different from the one proposed by the Government – in this case, to be specific, in the form of the introduction of a reference. The fifth question is: If the government describes the current order in a bill but does not propose any change to this order, it may be understood as a position of the government in order for the current order to remain. Does this position constitute the right to carry out a follow-up exercise on changing the current regime? The Government reports on p. 17 in the bill that there are differences between the provisions regarding changes in the classification of municipalities and county councils. Among other things, it is stated that, when changing the classification of municipalities, special consideration must be given to the wishes and views of the population. Where there are reasons for this, a special study shall be carried out on the attitude of the population. – – There is no equivalent regulation in the case of changes in the county council classification. After that, the Government does not come back again with proposals for amendments in this respect, which may be seen as a position of the Government in order for the existing regime to remain in place. As you know, the accompanying motion is about changing that order. In my view, if the government takes a stand in a proposal for a certain regulation not to be amended, it should be possible, by means of a follow-up motion, to take a different view on the matter. My view is that the five points and arguments that I have now put forward give strong support for the follow-up motion to be handled like any other motion. I would also ask the House to note that the House does not need to share my opinion on each of the five points. It is sufficient for this House to share my view of one of the points in order for this House to have sufficient reason to make a different assessment from that of the President. Each of the items is a sufficient reason for further consideration by the Riksdag. Let me also point out that it is very rare for the President to try in this way to stop a motion from further treatment. It is therefore important that the House should be given the opportunity to decide on the limits of the right to follow-up exercise. What we are debating now is not whether the motion is good or bad, but whether it should be dealt with at all by Parliament. Even those who disagree with the motion in the motion may therefore have reason to think that there are sufficient reasons for the exercise to be treated like any other exercise in the Riksdag. Next time it may be a motion that you actually agree with that is called into question. In the light of what I have just said, I urge that the accompanying motion in question be referred to the committee for consideration.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-29	Mr President, I would like to Andreas Norlén and others have proposed to introduce into the proposed legislation the same provisions that exist for the examination of public opinion in connection with the Government's proposal on transitional government and equalisation in the amended classification of municipalities. This may, in substance, be a sympathetic idea, but the proposed legislation is not about this but about how a process should take place when a new division is decided. These include how decision-making rights can be transferred to an indirectly elected body, the so-called sub-delegated bodies, during a transitional period, and how certain financial commitments should be settled. According to the assessment made by the Chamber Office, they Andreas not Norlén in with several proposed changes to the resale right for these reasons. It is therefore a legal and not a political assessment. We, on the Socialist side, wish to express our support for the opinion of the President and the Chamber and therefore choose not to examine the proposed amendments in substance. I therefore support the President's proposal.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-33	Mr President, I would like to This question is both very simple and at the same time very complex. It is complex, because this kind of assessment must somewhere include a certain amount of interpretation and discretion. There are no precise limits to whether or not a case should be considered within the scope of a proposal. But it is also quite simple from a fundamental point of view. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we understand why the present parliamentary order looks like it does and why the President has been given the opportunity to stop proposals that are completely outside the scope of the matter. At the same time, it is no easy matter to prevent elected representatives from making proposals in a parliament. We believe that the opportunity that the President has should be used with extreme restraint. We do not want to contribute in any way to a shift in practice in a more restrictive direction in this case, but believe that the President's ability to prevent Members from making proposals should only be used when it comes to perfectly clear cases. Our assessment is that the present case is not a clear case. A number of thoughtful arguments have been put forward on the part of the Moderates, which we believe need to be highlighted and discussed further before a more restrictive change of practice takes place. In this case, it would mean that the issue would be dealt with by the Constitutional Committee, which is the most appropriate committee to deal with these issues, and that we would also have a debate in this House, which we think would be desirable. In view of this, I call for the motion to be referred to committee.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-38	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, which is an alliance reservation, and of the moderate reservation 4. Otherwise, we support the report. Before we go underground in mineral politics, I want to think a little bit about what it looks like internationally. It is the view of the Moderates that mining is incredibly important and that it is not just about the square metres involved. If we want better welfare all over the world, we need metals. This morning I walked around Riddarfjärden, which is customary. It's enough to look around there. There are railroads, trains, bridges and well covers. Yes, there is so much we need metals for. Then we must raise our eyes and realise that as a mining country we can not only arrange jobs but also participate, obtain export revenue and contribute to increased welfare. This must be the starting point when we discuss mineral policy. Many times our discussion will be about a few square metres. When you look at this nationally, you can start by looking at what the current government said when it came to it. It would have been agreed with the Green Party. They said: The environmental requirements for exploration and test drilling should be tightened. The interests of the tourism industry and other local industries shall be taken into account. An analysis of available roads shall be carried out within the Government Office. Here you point out that it can be very local parts that decide if I can start a mine or not. You've seen pictures of some of them. To obtain a permit, a dry fura has been moved to a nearby area to compensate. Yeah, it's very neat and cute, I think. We need to raise our eyes and see that this issue is much bigger than that. Besides: If you think there are few dry pines and wind traps, you can go out into the woods sometime, I'll show you that there are plenty of them. It is important that we put this issue at the right level. Then you get a little worried about the government's view on the issue. It is, of course, incredible job creation. We can go to Kiruna. We see there that today it is an incredibly prosperous municipality, which is even, apparently, a contributor to the tax equalisation system. When S wants to hit the moderate-led Stockholm municipalities, Kiruna goes with only speed, because it is high wages and that it is well ordered. It is clear that it is the mine that has contributed, and all the surrounding activities. We who have a few years on our neck remember courtesies from Kiruna. It was the misery of misery, and you needed donations and help. Today, as I see it, it is a proud municipality that can manage itself, thanks very much to the fact that we have a mining operation. We can go a little south, to Pajala. We all know how it went there. Let us be reminded, then, that there were parties who thought that we should certainly raise the mining tax properly here, because now they made money. Yes, I will be humble and say that we have done the same thing with nuclear power and the tax on energy just because it is temporarily good times. Today it is quite different on this issue as well. I think it is important for the mining industry to have long-term rules and that it should not, just because it makes some profit for a few years, think that it should be taxed properly, because it will fight back against our opportunity to be a large mining nation. If we now have minerals and the like, of course, we should take care of it. As for Bjuv, the minister's thinking about why the company should move. Let us ensure that we conduct a policy on the mining side so that we do not have unnecessary closures and, preferably, so that we can get more mines to open up again. We can see how hard it is. Dannemora was running and had to close down when iron ore prices fell. I come from a county, Dalarna, where several mining projects have been discussed in Ludvika and Grängesberg. Today, I am incredibly pessimistic that they really get back into operation, which would have been incredibly valuable for the employment in Bergslagen. But let us hope that I am wrong and that the billions needed to invest in the mining industry really come to the mining industry. Then I would remind you once again that I think it is very important that in mineral policy it is long-term rules of play and that it is much easier to get one's permits. Today it takes about seven to eight years to get permission to start a mine. I do not intend to go to Mexico and take it as an example, but it takes two years, according to the mining industry. This means that it is also legally certain. But let's say this: let's try to halve it to three four years, say four years. Then there is an essential difference. And I'm pretty sure we can do it very legally. If you look at metal prices you can see that it is quite long wave movements. Then we have to look at the whole thing. It is only to be noted that huge resources are needed to develop the mining industry. Once again we can visit Dalarna and Garpenberg, where Boliden has a mine where they have recently invested many billions. It is because it is a company that has those resources. Then we all understand what an incredible problem it is to start for new ones, because it takes incredibly big money. Mr President, I would like to This is a motion report. But I hope that together we can try to make it easier for the mining industry, so that you can have a shorter processing time to get your permits. I also hope that when we discuss these issues we will be uplifted and realise that it is very important for us to be perhaps the largest mining country in the European Union and also to be involved in contributing to an increase in prosperity around the world while at the same time obtaining export revenues, which in turn often create jobs where there are not so large urban areas. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to say a few words about our reservations. Our alliance reservation points to the old deal the alliance government had about a strategy. We believe from the Alliance that it is extremely important that we continue to develop it and ensure that we have long-term and good rules that make this a good nutrition. I am not saying that we should remove environmental testing and such things, but at the same time I think it must be at sensible levels. That is what I think is important to clarify in a strategy. With regard to the moderate reservation, we point, among other things, to the problems that exist for landowners in the event of bankruptcy. Even the mountain master has had thoughts on how to interpret it. From a moderate point of view, we think it needs to be made clear how things are in the context of bankruptcies. Unfortunately, we have not seen the last bankruptcy in the mining industry, because it takes big muscles to start. And we know how world prices of metals can change.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-56	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 14 on mineral policy. In the report, the Swedish Democrats have two reservations, which we naturally support, but for time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservation No 5. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish mining industry dates back to at least the 13th century in Sweden, and iron products are one of Sweden's first export successes. Iron is still a very important export raw material, and Sweden is by far the EU's largest iron ore producer. In the case of several other metals, too, we are one of Europe's foremost. It follows that the mining industry is a very important employer in many regions and that a number of municipalities are even built around that industry. The mining industry has for many years provided a substantial contribution to the Treasury and contributed significant exports to the benefit of the Swedish economy. More recently, in recent years, profitability has failed somewhat as world market prices have fallen, not least linked to China's decline in demand. But now there may be some light, and the Swedish Democrats hope, of course, that this trend will continue. In any case, I believe that we can be fairly certain that the demand for minerals will continue and that the industry will be important for Sweden in the foreseeable future, but this obviously presupposes that the policy is in the context of global development. The Swedish Democrats want to work for both the mining industry and the steel industry. Can the steel industry grow, and the value added of Swedish ore thus increase, it is of course good for the Swedish economy and Swedish jobs. However, this requires a good supply of energy at reasonable prices. Unfortunately, the government is now destroying the conditions at a raging rate by means of a non-realistic and ideologically driven energy policy. Perhaps the government in office is not guilty alone, even though I believe that the road to the wall has been accelerated. In fact, the former alliance government has a huge responsibility for the current crisis, as billions and billions of subsidies have been pumped into so-called renewable power plants that the market has not requested and where energy cannot be planned on the basis of demand. I find it very sad that it should have to go this far before politics seriously reacts. Consequences that are relatively easy to predict have been chosen to turn a blind eye to, and within just a few years, Sweden risks standing without significant shares of the necessary basic power for Swedish industry. Mr President, I would like to The mining industry is, as I said, important for the Swedish economy, and it is desirable that the industry can grow. However, we think it is important that those who use our natural resources also do their own thing when it comes, for example, to restoring land and nature when the operation is complete. We do not believe that it is the taxpayers who should be responsible for the after-treatment that may be needed in areas that have been contaminated or otherwise disfigured by the mining industry. In our view, there is a need for a legislative change that better ensures than today that operators can finance the rehabilitation of mining areas. One variant that we recommend is that the processing concession is conditional on the concession holder continuously allocating funds to cover the clean-up and restoration costs that are deemed to remain after the completion of the operation. This is what the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 is about. Mr President, I would like to In the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5, we propose a reform of mineralisation, i.e. the fee that mining companies pay for extracting minerals in Sweden. This fee is only modest 2 per mil of the value of the minerals, which means that in some cases we almost give away our assets to foreign companies operating in Sweden but taxing their profits in some other country. Sweden's collection of compensations for mineral extraction is among the lowest in the world. According to a World Bank survey – although it should be said that it has a few years on its back – Sweden is even the cheapest and with the highest return to foreign owners in comparison with countries such as Australia, Chile, China, South Africa and Canada. As I have already said, the possible consequences of mining may end up on Swedish taxpayers, and for this reason the Swedish Democrats are proposing that the mineralisation be increased from the current 2 per mile to a total of 5 per cent. However, I do not think that this should be seen as a mere tax levy on the mining industry, but rather the government's net revenue from the reform we believe should be returned in different ways in order to develop not least the places in Sweden where the mining industry is located. This, in turn, can be re-connected to the ambitions of the Swedish democrats in regional growth policy, which we will be debating later today in this House. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a large number of proposals which would benefit the mining industry in Sweden but which are not included in this report. In the past, I have referred to energy policy as an important component for the heavy Swedish industry, but in addition to that, we also believe that education policy is central. The Swedish Democrats there point to the importance of more people being stimulated to choose technical and scientific subjects. I also know that in certain branches of the mining industry there is a deficit in terms of access to trained staff. Infrastructure policy is another area that is central to both the mining industry and regional development. We also propose to strengthen resources for geoscience research and increased exploration ambitions. We believe that the mining industry will remain important for Sweden for a long time to come.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-73	Mr President, I would like to Every time I read that Sweden is the EU's biggest mining nation, I can't help but be a little proud. After all, we account for 90% of the EU's total iron ore production. I think that's pretty cool. We also have a lot of production when it comes to, for example, copper, zinc and silver. The demand for metals and minerals is also becoming increasingly important globally. Many people worldwide rise out of poverty and can afford to buy products that we have taken for granted for quite some time. More homes are being built, more and more people can afford a mobile phone and the infrastructure is being expanded. In Bergslagen and in the large mining counties Västerbotten and Norrbotten, thousands of people are working to extract iron ore and minerals that are then used to construct things that are very important in our everyday lives: bridges, electric cars, railway tracks, wind turbines and buildings. Apart from providing all of this to the rest of the world, the mining and mineral industry also contributes to creating many jobs in rural areas, often in areas where jobs are not always available. Mr President, I would like to There is also another aspect worth highlighting. As we live in an increasingly troubled world, it is very good that Sweden and the EU have their own access to ore and minerals and are not too dependent on other countries. A self-sufficiency and increased self-sufficiency are important not only for maintaining our standard of living but also for a competitive base industry. But there are also many challenges with the mining industry. Mining affects the environment, the landscape is changing and people are worried about what happens to their land or reindeer grazing area. I also have a great deal of sympathy for that. Therefore, I am very pleased that Sweden has one of the world's toughest environmental legislations. Moreover, changes in the mineral law have not long been made to allow landowners and other interested parties, such as Sami villages, to enter the process earlier and to make their voices heard at the exploration stage. Mr President, I would like to Not long ago, the government presented a new industrialisation strategy. This was something that many looked forward to, not least in view of the toughness of global competition for many of our industrial companies, which have in fact often had to relocate their business abroad or even close down. I very much hope that it will not just stop at fluffy proposals by the government, but that it will soon come to the fore in a concrete action plan. Mr President, I would like to However, there are some things that I think the government should bear in mind when it comes to the new industrialisation initiative in Sweden. One is the infrastructure. Since we are an export-dependent country and also a country that is very large to the surface, we need good transport opportunities for goods, not least for the mining and steel industry. Often I think that priorities are made according to the needs of passenger transport, and my feeling is that goods often come second. Investments on behalf of the goods must be made from north to south, and the needs are, to say the least, great. Therefore, I find it worrying that the high-speed train venture between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö is forecast to become more and more expensive with a bill that seems to end up at hundreds of billions. We have a limited money bag for infrastructure, and if it is going to benefit the whole country, one can really wonder whether fast rail trains can eat up such large parts of the cake at the expense of the rest of Sweden and industry. Mr President, I would like to Another problem, also mentioned by my colleague Ulf Berg from the Moderates, is the state-of-the-art mining processes, which are far too long in Sweden today. Nor are they predictable. Even if companies do their utmost to get a complete application, the environmental criteria can be changed during the process. This makes the demands unpredictable, and the process stops. Of course, this also costs a lot of money and time. It is therefore necessary to develop a specification of requirements that will allow a predictable, legally secure and efficient process to be achieved without compromising the environment. This is indeed crucial to the willingness of companies to invest and also crucial to the implementation of new industrialisation. The purpose of the permit process must be to grant permission – not to be a conservation process, right? The Swedish mining and mineral industry does not fear high environmental standards, but they must know what is required. Mr President, I would like to A third point that I would like to emphasise and which is crucial for new industrialisation and the mining and steel industry in Sweden is research and innovation. Today, for example, there is a large surplus of steel on the market. One of the reasons is that China is subsidising steel produced in the country. In turn, it has dumped prices on the world market. In order for the Swedish mining and steel industry to be able to compete with other countries, we must compete with smart and more environmentally friendly inventions, since we can rarely compete at the lowest price. A recent example of a wise, environmentally friendly and incipient innovation is the Steel without Coal cooperation project, which you may have heard of. LKAB, SSAB and Vattenfall are working there to develop a process where iron can be made using hydrogen instead of using dirty coal. But for it to become a reality, society needs to help with test beds, for example, because the business is as expensive as it is. Another important aspect in this context is that current education needs to be more attractive and adapted to the demands of digitalisation. However, further training throughout working life is also essential. Finally, I would like to talk a little bit about mining compensation or mining tax, as it is called by some. Some say: Foreign companies come here, grab their profits and go abroad. The truth is that of the 13 metal mines that exist, 11 are wholly Swedish owned. Two are foreign owned by companies that also have subsidiaries in Sweden. In Sweden we demand that the subsidiaries be in place. When the mining operations in Sweden go well, the state receives many billions through dividends, taxes and fees. In addition, those who work in the mines pay municipal tax, which in turn contributes to the development of the municipalities and also gives rise to jobs for subcontractors. It is also important, as I mentioned earlier, to bear in mind that mines provide huge numbers of jobs in areas that often have problems with jobs. We should remember that mining requires a lot of capital. If we were to introduce a mining tax, which I know both the Left Party and the Green Party proposed before the elections, it would affect investment and also the number of jobs in our country, especially now that there is a world recession in terms of metals and minerals. That would be bad for the jobs. Of course, I agree that the compensation for landowners in particular is low. But the Left Party announces taxes of 10 per cent and the Green Party of 5 per cent, and I do not really know where you got those figures from. Why not 8 or 11 percent? There is quite a difference between today's 2 per mil and 10 per cent. To be honest, I do not think you fully understand the consequences in terms of the labour market. There are certainly several countries that have a higher mineral replacement than Sweden. But making comparisons straight off is like comparing apples and pears. In Sweden, we have chosen the line with high environmental requirements and requirements for funded funds for restoration. It costs, and it's good. In other countries, environmental legislation is in principle non-existent, which places responsibility on the state. This requires higher taxes on companies. Finally, I would just like to say that, in my view, profitable companies and strong environmental legislation should be better than dirty environment and low standards.
i-AhgUSgQYFRrPNCDkJCncvo	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 14 Mineral policy. I have to start by saying something to Ulf and Helena. If there had been seven eight years of processing time at the Pajala mine, it would not have started. Then the business cycle would have turned. It only took three or four years. That's how it can go. Sweden has had mining activities for more than 1 000 years, with different and different volumes and consequences, of course. As Helena said, Sweden accounts for 90 per cent of EU iron ore production, 30 per cent of lead production, 25 per cent of zinc production, 20 per cent of silver production and 10 per cent of copper production. It's not bad. The fact that the EU then doesn't give a shit about the fact that the competitor countries from which they also buy minerals have much dirtier activities is disturbing in this context. Sweden is the largest supplier of iron ore, for example. This raises the question: would it not be appropriate for the EU to fund some of the infrastructure so that we can deliver it safely to them even when times are a little worse? This type of activity is not something you stop every time there is a small economic turn. Since we became members of the Union, Sweden has always been a net contributor to the EU. Then it would be appropriate for us, even as a supplier of raw materials to Europeans, to get a little back on our paid-up effort. Well, that's another question. But I can't help but lift my mind. Northland's bankruptcy, as some mentioned here, in my municipality of residence was the largest in Sweden of all time. It was an open pit – a iron ore mine that was started when prices were high. But with many circumstances in unfortunate combinations, it went bankrupt. You can imagine the consequences of this bankruptcy in a municipality with a little over 6,000 inhabitants where more than 500 people were affected by the bankruptcy. 81⁄2 percent of the population are out of work. The corresponding figure in Stockholm would be that 75 000 people lost their jobs at the same time. I wonder how long the queues of protesting politicians would be in such a scenario. Well, and fortunately, it is not Stockholm that has been hit. I'm not giving up hope for the Tapuli mine anyway. It is there, and all concerned have paid the price, whether it is environmental or emotional. But the debate about the mine has been taken and is overplayed. Those are facts. If the mine becomes a remediation object and a fiasco, it would really raise the question of whether to grant permits to new mines at all if you do not use a finished mine, which is already there. I think that if we were just to work together on a strategy that aims to work with mining in a longer term perspective, we can also succeed with this initiative. But the question of transport is crucial in a resource belt that extends east – westward, as in this particular area. Railways, which are now missing, would completely change the situation. Imagine the situation when Malmbanan was built with shovels and hacks and where wheelbarrows were the dumpers of that time! We could jointly look at areas where mining activities are appropriate, with infrastructure as a must, of course, where the deposits replace each other and where they could last 100 years or more in the future. It could link several deposits with infrastructure and long-term viability at the rate of breakage. It can be done, as long as you don't let greed take over when prices are high and the world buys everything you can get loose. This is to be done in agreement with local communities and other industries, and to promote the comprehensive development of mining communities so that they attract both women and men. That's what the Left Party would call a mineral strategy. Mr President, I would like to Of course, all mining operations must be carried out with high environmental and climate requirements and in order to achieve sustainability in the long term. Infrastructure will always be crucial for the industry, and this means that transport will take place by rail and by boat. Mining has always been, and will always be, in smaller towns and towns and in rural and sparsely populated areas. It is a bearer of society where it is in operation. These are pure facts; then you can think what you want about mines and minerals. The mines in Sweden use about 20 000 hectares, i.e. 0.5 per mil of the land area. The golf courses, in turn, take 28 000 hectares of land. I do not add values to these comparisons, but at least I react a little. Conflicts with other industries and local communities often arise in this industry too, but that is not unusual. Where are industries or activities that use land or land where conflicts do not occur? Power lines, wind power, solar cells, forestry, mines – the list can be made of any length in this regard. There's always someone who has objections. I fully understand, just as Helena Lindahl said, how it is when you come and restrict others' nutritional areas. However, as I said earlier, I believe that these conflicts can be resolved if we only respect each other and seek solutions that are long-term. Mr President, I would like to Thus, it is not said that our generation should break up all the minerals that exist in the country and that all permit applications should be granted. No, we should probably set limits here too when it comes to how much fossil elements we should allow to be dug up per year, so that even this industry thinks longer than our own generation. Often the deposits are better secured there under the hill than the returns would be on a tax haven, at least with our future generations in mind. The fact that there are then areas where other values weigh more heavily and where examination permits are not to be granted highlights the Left Party in motion 377. In the same motion, we stress that the government should set up an investigation that reviews the regulations regarding the mining industry, including the issue of the level of mineralisation, in order to create a long-term and sustainable industry that promotes rural development and where a reformed mineral replacement can better benefit the affected areas. Mr President, I would like to The left-wing party has five reservations in the report, but I choose to accept only reservation 6 under paragraph 3 and revation 10 under paragraph 6. Then I must mention that the Left Party does not think it should grant uranium and fossil mining. I know that some share that view.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-110	Mr President, I would like to Mining is one of our country's most important basic industries. The mining industry generates important raw materials, tax revenues and jobs. Thanks to new technology, modern mining has much less impact on the environment than older mining. It is positive when old mines are reopened to extract deposits thanks to modern technology or when existing mines expand their extraction in a more sustainable way than before. Unfortunately, in some cases the mining industry also gives rise to conflicts and mistrust between different groups and interests. Growth and jobs are sometimes set against the environment and, for example, reindeer nutrition, or as we just heard against the golfers. But it is vital that we can manage and take into account the various interests that exist in these areas and find a balanced mineral policy. After all, the Swedish mineral law is among the hardest in the world. Since 1 August 2014, the mineral law has been further strengthened so that the individual's position in exploration has improved. More stringent requirements have been introduced on what a work plan should contain and the process around it. The Alliance government developed a mineral strategy that lays a good foundation for how Sweden can take advantage of the opportunities that are given for jobs and growth while defending our position as the EU's leading mining nation. Mining often accounts for extensive interventions in nature and affects the environment. It is therefore important for the responsible authorities to place greater emphasis on controlling the economic strength of potential mineral companies in order, inter alia, to ensure that companies are able to take full responsibility for the environmental impact that will occur. Mr President, I would like to The Sami are an indigenous people and a recognised Swedish minority. We therefore have a special responsibility, both historically and on the basis of the international conventions that we have signed, to safeguard Sami culture and the right of the Sami people to exercise reindeer husbandry. But sometimes Sami culture is threatened by exploitation interests. The Alliance government made important legislative changes to strengthen the role of Sami interests in the process of mineral extraction. We must have great respect for the various interests involved in mining and mining. A great deal of time and effort must therefore be devoted precisely to various forms of consultation. Confidence must be built, including through good communication between actors, i.e. companies, landowners, municipalities and other stakeholders. The Alliance government took an ambitious strategic hold on the Swedish mining and mineral industry in order to make use of the opportunities provided for Sweden to continue to be the leading mining nation in the EU. Strategic areas for long-term and sustainable mineral use were identified at the time, a significant number of concrete measures were presented and funds allocated to finance the various actions. The strategy is an important guide for a continued active and competitive mining industry in Sweden that is conducted in harmony with both the environment and surrounding industries. Unfortunately, we do not feel that the current government has the same interest in mining and mineral industry issues as the previous government. Although work is under way to implement the remaining actions within the framework of the mineral strategy, commitment to implementation leaves a great deal to be desired. In our view, there is also reason to fear that the experience so far is not being used effectively. As stated in the 1189 exercise, we believe that more steps must be taken to enable Sweden to complete the mineral strategy. Parliament should therefore point out, through an announcement to the government, the importance of further work on the national mineral strategy. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 1 on the basis of the motion in question.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-121	Mr President, I would like to It's not every day you're happy that you're from a small place of use. But as a born Heater from Degerfors I feel a strong heritage, so to speak, around this with steel and iron and this industry that has actually been in Sweden for over a thousand years. When it comes to innovation power in Sweden, one can safely say that this has been important for technology development, for the industry itself and for building up the entire Swedish industrial society. And today Sweden is one of the EU's leading ore and metal producers. What is also interesting about the mineral industry and the mines is that, according to the Constitution, every citizen's property is secured except when it is required to provide for urgent public interests. The fact that minerals can be exploited and mined and that security of supply is created in this area has been considered to be of such a general interest. Mr President, I would like to Therefore, I want to focus a little bit on the conditions for this, both when it comes to those who want to mine ore and develop minerals for different uses and when it comes to landowners. The mineral compensation paid by the concessionaire to the landowners aims to achieve a better balance between the developers and the landowners. The compensation shall be equal to 2 per mil of the value of the mineral covered by the concession which has been broken during the year. Three quarters of the compensation shall be paid to the property owner in the concession area and one quarter shall be paid to the State. The provisions on mineralisation apply to all concessions that have been granted since 2005 and where mining is ongoing. The annual report of the responsible authority, SGU, for 2015 shows that for the mining year, the rules on mineral compensation to the State and the landowners were applicable to a total of 16 processing concessions. In total, the compensation decided was SEK 7.4 million, with a distribution of approximately SEK 1.8 million to the State and SEK 5.5 million to the landowners. In a motion I wrote last autumn, I note that exploration and mining in many countries are regulated not only by legislation but also by taxes and charges and royalties, or precisely by mineral compensation to the state. There are therefore several different systems for this. In some cases, the prospectusor is obliged to use a certain amount for survey activities within a specified period of time. In Sweden, mineralisation is taken out for the mineral that is mined. I believe that Sweden, in relation to other countries, has a low level of mineral compensation, which also does not include possible costs of clean-up afterwards. I believe that it is quite easy for companies to operate in an area for a certain period of time, and then to leave it in a condition that allows other businesses to enter directly without the necessary measures on the ground. Therefore, I have also exercised that there should be a review of mineralisation so that costs for future clean-up measures are included. Last year, the government said that it would review the mineral levy and contribute to the creation of new models to develop the responsibility of society and the mining industry to finance the investments needed to achieve environmentally sustainable mining and social development. Then it is such a good thing, Mr President, that this week we can find the letter from the Government on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on financial risks for the state in terms of mining waste. It can be noted that before this debate and today's decision in the Chamber, the Government has quickly commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the SGU – it was on 14 April – to develop together a long-term strategy for the management of extractive waste and to assess post-treatment measures taking into account alternative uses of extractive waste. It can also be noted that a week before that, on 7 April, the Government gave the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency a mandate to analyse and clarify its guidance on the conditions under which extractive waste with hazardous properties should be classified as hazardous waste, and the consequences thereof. This is also the case with the costs and disposal of extractive waste, and hence the clean-up. I think, of course, that it is a very good thing that we have managed to make a decision and to give the responsible authorities assignments like this just a week before decisions are taken. It is clear that it is sometimes difficult to debate things that are already under way, but what I would like to say in this context is that we have not yet seen the result of the review of the mineral levy itself. How will it change? I appreciate the fact that you take the issue and work with it, but just to keep following it, I think it's important for all of us. We all want to promote as environmentally manageable a society as possible, including mineral and mining.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-130	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the motion report on minerals. Almost a year after I gave my maiden speech in this House, it is time to debate mineral policy once again. The interest in the area is, if possible, even greater now than then. I would like to start by calling for the rejection of motions and reservations and for the proposal contained in the report to be supported as it stands. However, I would like to emphasise that in many of the motions which are the subject of debate today there are commendable initiatives. There is a desire to take joint responsibility and make better use of the return on deposits, as well as an ambition that Sweden should be a forerunner in the transition to a more sustainable society. In many cases, however, exercise involves what is already being launched or where commitments have already been made with a view to what the sportsmen are proposing. Sweden is a strong and proud industrial nation. Mining is important for Sweden. Anyone who has thought in terms of the Swedish industry being basicly gone may take a new thought – the demand for Swedish products and services remains great, and in this time we are new industrializing Sweden. Nevertheless, there are challenges, partly in terms of the price of Swedish steel in a global and highly competitive market, and partly in terms of demands for sustainable industrial production. An industrial nation like Sweden must prove that we are able to keep several values on the map at the same time – a continued high production but of course on responsible and sustainable conditions. I would therefore like to stress now that the aim of the Swedish Environmental Code is to promote sustainable development and ensure a healthy and healthy living environment for living and future generations. The precautionary principle applies, and reinforced and extended requirements for environmental impact assessments have been introduced. Mr President, I would like to I would like to give a brief reminder of what we are actually debating. Those are pretty amazing numbers. Sweden alone accounts for 90% of EU iron ore production, 30% of lead ore production, 25% of zinc production, 20% of silver production and 10% of copper production. These are not small values we are debating here today; they are about great resources and opportunities – and very many jobs. However, we see a sharp decline in terms of new applications and research permits. As in previous years, the new permits are concentrated in the three ore regions of the country – ore fields in Norrbotten, Skelleftefield and the gold line in Västerbotten and Bergslagen. A thriving industry that develops with fair conditions is obviously dependent on long-term rules of play. I would therefore like to touch briefly on the agreement reached between the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the field of mineral policy. It reads as follows: Sweden should be a forerunner for sustainable development in the mining industry, which is important for Sweden. We want to create new models to develop the responsibility of society and the mining industry to finance the investments required for environmentally sustainable mining and social development. The environmental requirements for exploration and test drilling shall be tightened. The interest of the tourism industry and other local industries shall be taken into account. An analysis of available roads shall be carried out within the Government Office. Sweden shall not open up for the extraction of uranium, oil or gas. ..................................................... There are six sentences with a lot of content and a lot of ambition – as they should. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is the EU's leading mining nation. For this to remain the case, favourable conditions are needed so that the mining and mineral industries can grow in a sustainable way and increase their participation in the international arena. Of course, Sweden will be a pioneer for sustainable development in the mining industry. As part of the sustainable development of the mining and mineral industry, of course, work continues on the implementation of the previously decided mineral strategy. The 2016 Budget Bill also shows that the Government intends to create new models for developing environmentally sustainable mining and community development where the mining industry assumes its financial responsibility. In addition, the Government announces that environmental requirements will be reviewed and, if necessary, tightened up. In addition, the Ministry of Industry is currently reviewing the process from exploration to mining, with a focus on sustainability and the development of the industry in question. In this context, it is also important to mention the Swedish National Audit Office's letter on mining waste and the Government's response to the same letter. In its reply, the Government notes that some work in the recommended direction is already proposed but that it will also be relevant with assignments to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding hazardous waste and the consequences of this. With regard to the need for clearer guidance on the application for a permit for mining activities, in order to reduce processing times, it is appropriate to recall that work is currently under way to update existing guidance which has been developed, inter alia, to make the authorisation procedure more effective. Furthermore, Growth Analysis is currently evaluating the efforts made to shorten lead times in environmental permit processes. In this context, it is impossible not to affect the charging and reimbursement area. In this House, the extent to which fees and compensation for broken raw materials are to be paid has often been debated. The response given by the Committee on Economic Affairs to this matter is excellent and reads as follows: On several occasions in recent years, the Riksdag has dealt with motions on the size and distribution of mineralisation and on the other fees that holders of exploration permits or b processing concessions are obliged to pay according to the Minerals Act. When similar motions for resolutions are now back on Parliament's table, the committee notes that the government has announced a review of what is termed mineral avenue. Although the concept of a mineral levy may be perceived as difficult to understand, the committee has found that this review will have a broad allocation and cover both the mineralisation, the fees that are regulated in Chapter 14. mineral law and other charges charged to the mining industry. The committee sees no reason at this stage to anticipate this review by means of a statement in support of any of the current motions. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to This year, like many previous parliamentary years, there has been a motion for a ban on uranium extraction. It is an area where many points of view are crowded. But it is almost 40 years since uranium extraction took place in Sweden, and the municipal veto may be considered strong. In addition, the agreement between government parties states that Sweden should not open up for uranium, oil or gas extraction. As a social democrat, I feel both proud and confident in that agreement, which, incidentally, is far more far-reaching than that which the previous government parties managed to achieve. Another area that can arouse emotions and reactions is the extraction of gas and oil. But nothing has changed since last parliamentary year's exercise treatment. Therefore, it is appropriate to refer to what was said at the time: a gas extraction is currently only very limited in Sweden. The Swedish environmental regulations governing the extraction of gas, oil or other hydrocarbons can be considered strict. In addition, according to SGU's estimates, the conditions for extracting gas or oil from shale in Sweden are limited as a result of Sweden's geological conditions. Access to gas that can be extracted through so-called "gas" hydraulic fracturing is both too small and located to areas where this extraction method is inappropriate to use. It shall also be added that the Government Parties have stated in a joint agreement that Sweden shall not open for the extraction of oil or gas. All in all, the committee believes that it can serve as a basis for Parliament to reject the motions calling for a ban on oil and gas extraction from shale in Sweden, a more general ban or a municipal veto on the extraction of fossil energy. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The government shows a great deal of responsibility and concern for continued growth in the mining industry. Of course, growth should take place with an effective and gentle hand. One of the key words for the future should be responsibility for both mineral resources as well as the surrounding society and nature and environment. Different types of conversion are taking place in several parts of the country, and these processes must always be characterised by responsibility. A good example of responsibility is LKAB's actions in the Malmfälten fields. Mr President, I would like to With this in mind, I call for all motions and reservations to be rejected and for the draft decision to be approved in its entirety. Finally, I would like to emphasise and really stress the pride in Sweden that I know and in the way that we jointly care for each other, but also about sustainable conditions for growth and development. A Sweden that holds together is the goal, so also in the field of mineral policy.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-147	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Hanna Westéren and the Social Democrats whether they believe that the re-launch of the mine in Pajala is facilitated by their association with the idea of introducing a 10% mining tax, which the Left is considering. That, if we look at the year 2013, when values of 600 million were raised, would be an increased cost of 60 million for Pajala. If we then add to the famous kilometre tax, which the red - green people are considering, there would be about 32 million in the example of Pajala. If you spend a cost of 100 million on a mine, I have to ask whether you really believe that it will be reopened at all. We hope on the moderate side that it will do so when iron ore prices go in the right direction, at least as a mining producer. I would like to ask the question: does it make it easier for entrepreneurship to increase costs for a single location by 100 million?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-150	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I can say that I listened earlier to Ulf Berg and what he said about the mining industry and the mineral industry. We agree on a great deal, and that is something that I carry with me in the further work. You talked about common solutions, and I think that sounds interesting. As far as specific mineral levies are concerned, I do not intend to precede the investigation now being carried out. But in principle I can say: No, I do not think that the exact level of fees that Ulf Berg is discussing would make it easier for the industry in question.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-152	Mr President, I would like to Let us hope, then, that what the Social Democrats are saying now will become a little reality, that we are clearly distancing ourselves from the sharp increase in taxes, and that, as the Prime Minister has said, in changing the basic industry to the forest industry, there will be real development and that it will come to new jobs. Then we also want to see a little workshop and not just talk. That is why at least it feels good that we in this House may not have to see the mining tax. Let us make sure that we also avoid the kilometre tax, because it is a straight left towards the countryside that we do not want to see.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-154	Mr President, I would like to Finally, as a comment on what Ulf Berg mentioned about competitiveness and long-term conditions, I would like to say that it is precisely the long-term conditions for the mining industry that I too call for and want to promote. However, in order for there to be no doubt, I would really like to emphasise that we now have a government with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe as its target by 2020. We have a government that invests in both digitalisation and new industrialization. And of course our Swedish natural resources have an incredibly important place in the future Swedish growth and competitiveness wonder that I see before me. Of course, this should be done on responsible terms.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-155	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Hanna Westéren what is preventing the government from conducting an investigation that prohibits uranium mining in Sweden. You sit back and are satisfied with the municipal veto. I agree that the municipal veto is good and has worked. But what makes the government so cautious and afraid to investigate a ban on uranium mining and fossil mining at all?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-156	Mr President, I would like to This issue was also discussed during the last parliamentary year. I do not want to be too repetitive, but the answers are about the same as last year. On the one hand, we believe in the majority of committees that there is a strong municipal veto and, on the other hand, for the first time we have a government that really has an agreement that is in line and clearly rejects uranium extraction. We consider that to be a filler.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-157	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hanna, for your answer. But the government leaves a little open to a municipality that gets a different majority to act in a different way. I can also involve some energy and nuclear issues. Do you think the market should do that? If we agree that we should not have uranium mining, should the policy not point with the whole hand? Or should market forces be opened up?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-159	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to emphasise that we now have a politically responsible government. We have two parties in the government, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats, who are politically agreed that – and I would like to quote again – Sweden should be a forerunner for sustainable development in the mining industry, which is important for Sweden. We want to create new models to develop the responsibility of society and the mining industry to finance the investments required for environmentally sustainable mining and social development. The environmental requirements for exploration and test drilling shall be tightened. The interests of the tourism industry and other local industries shall be taken into account. An analysis of available roads shall be carried out within the Government Office. Sweden shall not open up for the extraction of uranium, oil or gas. ..................................................... It is extremely clear to me, and this is the first time we have that clarity from a government.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-161	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 7, because I forgot in my speech. I will go into similar questions as Birger Lahti, because I do not think that the answer was to the letter. In Skaraborg and Jämtland, for example, there are some deposits of uranium. As a result, many inhabitants of these areas are concerned. I understand that, because what happens if any company wants to prospect or even break uranium? It would definitely affect hunting, fishing and tourism – not to mention the value of the land that is at risk of falling. It would put a wet blanket over the countryside. Do not say that this is not the case, for these people have often expressed their concern about this. I am not buying the Social Democrats' declaration that the government has agreed not to allow uranium mining. Only a year ago, Hanna Westerén, the Social Democrats and the Green Party wanted to ban uranium mining. On so many occasions in this House, you spoke hotly about the need for it to be implemented. But now you choose to vote against the Center Party's and Left Party's motions to investigate a ban. In addition, you do not think that the municipalities should be given the right to veto the exploration of uranium in alumina, that is, where uranium is particularly present. How can this turn come about?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-168	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl started a question with a question about what happens. Let me turn it around. What happened during eight years of bourgeois government? If this issue is so hot and important to the Center Party, why did you not come any further? Now a government made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party has obtained an agreement in which we do not open up to the extraction of oil, uranium or gas. I think we've come a long way.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-170	Mr President, I would like to That's a classic. When you cannot answer the question, you turn the debate around and throw it in your arms at the opponent: What did you do? The difference is that the Center Party did not have a majority in the government during those eight years. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have a majority in the government; you are the government. You complained tremendously that you did not get a ban on uranium mining. Now you have the chance, but instead you say that your internal agreement on some kind of coffee rope would be above Swedish legislation. Come on! Even the Social Democrats cannot believe that. I want a better explanation, Hanna Westerén.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-174	Mr President, I would like to It's great to have feelings in this Chamber. That coffee rope thing is so stupid. I don't know how to replicate that kind of attack in a political debate. Of course it's not about a coffee rope. It is an agreement between the two parties who are privileged to lead the country. There has been no shift, but it is just as I mentioned earlier. There is an agreement between the parties in the government not to open up for oil, uranium or gas extraction. It is not a shift but a big step in the right direction, and I maintain that it is completely to the full. This clearly demonstrates Sweden's high ambitions in the field of mining and mineral policy.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-177	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations. Much has already been said. Our society is dependent on metals to function, and they are almost everywhere, in buildings, telephones, computers and transport systems. However, we know that metals are finite resources, and some are more scarce than others – at least in forms that can be used. We also know that mining causes environmental problems, infringes human and animal habitats and conflicts with various other industries and interests such as reindeer farming, tourism and the like. There are therefore several good reasons to make wise use of our metals and minerals as well as all other natural resources. It is untenable to assume that new mining of metals will constantly increase. Besides, it's unnecessary. There are great gains in redirecting society so that we make better use of the metals that are already in circulation and reduce the need for metals and for breaking new ones. We need to think long-term and weigh different needs against each other – sometimes even needs against desires. Clean drinking water is and will always be vital for humans and animals. It's not always new electronics stuff. This would not really have to be said, but it is a necessary basic perspective to have with you that deserves to be repeated. There is no compromise with nature. Protection of drinking water, for example, must take precedence over mining and other environmentally hazardous activities that are liable to harm them. Those of us who have been given the confidence to make decisions that will affect future generations, animals and nature have a great responsibility to preserve and protect priceless natural and cultural environments – for real and not just on paper. Therefore, the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court regarding North Kärr is important. In fact, it has given Bergsstaten new rules of conduct to take into account a much larger area than the mine hole itself in its review of the concession in the future. It strengthens Natura 2000 protection. Mining has an impact on the environment, as I said. This applies not only to the mine hole, but also to mining dams and all possible influence far and wide. It is important that the legislation is interrelated. There must be a red, or perhaps green, thread in it. We need to think long-term. As far as jobs are concerned, there is an enormous potential for further recycling of metals. It is easy to get caught up in that jobs in the mineral industry only exist in new mining. Of course, there are jobs there, but there may even be more jobs in recycling, both in smart design, in practical recycling and in urban mining, that is to say, in taking up metals that exist in our cities. There is a lot of research done on this, which I spoke about last year. For example, we have a huge mine in our drawers. According to a somewhat dated estimate, we Swedes have about 25 million old mobile phones at home. They've probably grown since I got this number. By recycling these phones, we could gain access to a lot of rare metals and reduce the need to pick up new ones. It provides jobs and is smart financial management. It's as good as it gets. In addition, the extraction of new metals consumes large amounts of energy and emits large amounts of greenhouse gases. It spreads environmental toxins and pollutes water, as I said. We can save a lot of resources by recycling materials instead of just reflexively thinking that we should break new ones. So there are both economic and non-economic benefits, for not everything is economic. Health and well-being are also important. There are things you can't think of, even if it's not easy to put price tags on them. Even if we think in jobs and think in economic terms and think long-term: If you break minerals out of a mine you can keep on for a few decades – it varies a little. But by definition, the deposits end at some point. Then it may be that other jobs can no longer be done. The tourism industry may have been damaged – it has done that right where the mine is. In Jokkmokk, reindeer farming and tourism are the really big job creating industries. We must also bear this in mind: the economy and the ability to make a living in the long term, the livelihoods of individual citizens and entrepreneurs in the future, not just the large mining companies and their profits in the short term. It was a bit general about mineral policy. Hanna Westerén went through good things that we have in our government agreement on sustainable mining. It includes the things I just mentioned. The government is working to comply with that government agreement, and it has been given assignments based on the much-needed review of the costs of mining waste by the Swedish National Audit Office, how the polluters who cause it will contribute to paying, simply bear their costs. Several missions have been given to our authorities on the basis of this review. More will also be done in the future, for example as regards mineral compensation, mining tax or whatever you want to call it. How can the industry contribute to its costs and contribute to society in a more reasonable way? Several sports propose higher mineral fees, mining taxes or whatever you call it. The government will now review this. Hanna Westerén was also of the utmost importance that the government should not open up to the extraction of uranium, oil or gas. It is, of course, a victory that we have a government that actually wants that. I am very pleased about that. You could say it's about time.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-194	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is talking about recycling. That's where we're in complete agreement. I requested a reply because I wanted to ask you a question. We can take brown coal-- that's a good example. Sometimes it may be state-owned companies that carry out such activities. How does the Green Party view it? Would one state-owned company be allowed to wind up its business and sell to another who can continue to develop lignite mining? How does the Green Party view this issue?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-196	Mr President, I would like to The policy of the Green Party is and has been that coal should remain in the ground. We can't afford to let coal out. Then Ulf Berg knows as well as I do that it is not easy to act on the current situation, with a bad deal – it is probably Vattenfall that is meant, who bought all this in earlier stages. Exactly what we can do best to keep the coal in the ground I cannot account for. That's what we're working on now. Vattenfall has come in with a request to sell, and now the government will have to review that offer. The coal should remain in the ground – that's what we work for, now and always, as long as we can.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-200	Mr President, I would like to Then I should just ask one control question: then there can be no question of Vattenfall making an affair with a party that might be planning to continue mining lignite – the Green Party does not remain in the government and implement such a decision?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-201	Mr President, I would like to That is not what we are discussing here today. Now let the government look at that issue, and we will see what we have to decide on, quite simply. That is not the issue at hand, but we are discussing a motion report. I am not going to stand here and say whether or not the Green Party is going to be in any government.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-202	Mr President, I would like to There is no compromise with nature," said Annika Lillemet in her speech. I can partly agree with that. In your election manifesto, you were also very clear that you wanted to stop uranium mining, just as you in this House have previously called for a ban on uranium mining legislation. But now you're even saying no to an investigation into a ban. Why is that?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-203	Mr President, I would like to That's breaking an open door. The government has said that we are not opening up for uranium mining. This is still the case, and it is a great victory. We have simply come a long way there. If there's a ban or not, we'll see. The term of office is not over.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-204	Mr President, I would like to I still think, Annika Lillemet, that it's a little strange. I have stood in this Chamber many times arguing precisely with the Green Party on this issue. Then you have made it clear that there is nothing but a ban, that it must come about in order for us to be sure in Sweden that there is really no uranium mining. That is why it is very strange for me that you are now saying: No, we have reached an agreement in the government. It's not a law. It is not a statute of law that you have agreed at all, but you have just discussed it together. Referring to an internal agreement is a rather lean solution, Annika Lillemet, in comparison with Swedish legislation. Is it the case that you have been run over by the Social Democrats on this issue, or is it that you have completely changed your mind on this issue?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-206	Mr President, I would like to No, we're not run over. No, we haven't changed foot. We have agreed with the Social Democrats not to open up for uranium mining in Sweden. It is a victory for all of us who want to avoid uranium mining, of course also for you – for all who want to avoid it. We've come a long way!
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-207	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the exciting speeches that have dealt with everything from the moderate billions that the Alliance decided to go to the richest M-governed municipalities to the fact that there is no commitment to the issues of the government, as we are told! I have to say, it actually took the Alliance seven years to develop a mineral strategy. With regard to its continuation, it took about a year to develop a new industrialisation strategy and export strategy so that we can use the minerals and get them out into the world. But listening has been exciting. Mr President, I would like to The mining and mineral industry, as Hanna Westerén said in her speech, is very important for Sweden, important for the countryside and for many towns and counties, important for employment and important for Sweden's exports, and it has been and is important for the development of Sweden as an industrial nation. Sweden's geological survey, SGU, has received overall goals from the Swedish parliament and government, for example in the mineral strategy and the goal that competitiveness will increase in order for Sweden to maintain and strengthen its position as the EU's leading mining country. Sweden's mineral resources should be used in a sustainable way, where ecological, social and cultural dimensions are taken into account, so that nature and cultural environments are preserved and developed. I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement on this in the Swedish Parliament. One is particularly happy about how Swedish mining and steel industry is constantly taking steps towards sustainable extraction and production. SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall told us on 4 April that they are now starting work to develop steel production that does not emit carbon dioxide without water. That, my friends, would be a big step towards a fossil-free Sweden. Mr President, I would like to When you choose to engage in politics, there are always some issues that feel extra important. For me, one of those questions has been about uranium mining. In my home country, in the county of Jämtland, I and my party the Social Democrats have lit carecas around Storsjön and demonstrated against the threat of uranium mining. Many open meetings have been held, pages on social media are active and there is a great deal of commitment throughout Jämtland. We have one of the most important water sources for four municipalities in Storsjön: Berg, Åre, where I live, Krokom and Östersund. The municipalities even went together and made a film to show what uranium mining would have consequences for Oviksbygden and Storsjön. There is thus a large majority against uranium mining in Jämtland County, and the municipalities concerned have all political council decisions not to allow uranium mining. Region Jämtland Härjedalen has also made an equal decision. Mr President, I would like to Today we have a motion from a moderate Member of Parliament from Västerbotten. He'd like to open up for uranium mining. He says that it would be positive for both national and international companies in Sweden. Moderate former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt was also in Västerbotten and opened up for uranium mining in Sweden. This, of course, creates and creates a great deal of concern in my home country and also the hopes of the companies that wanted to exploit uranium. It has also contributed to the absence of the development that could have taken place in both the green industries and the tourism industry in the area. It has been and is a bad environmental, economic and rural policy not to say clearly no. This is and has been an incredibly important issue for us, whether we have been in opposition or in government. Today I am very pleased that we have a government that directly made an agreement not to open up to uranium extraction. Sweden should be a forerunner for sustainable development in the mining industry, which is important for Sweden. We want to create new models to develop the responsibility of society and the mining industry to finance the investments required for environmentally sustainable mining and social development. The environmental requirements for exploration and test drilling shall be tightened. The interests of the tourism industry and other local industries shall be taken into account. An analysis of available roads shall be carried out within the Government Office. Sweden shall not open up for the extraction of uranium, oil or gas. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to It is important that Sweden wants to develop the mining and minerals industry in a sustainable way. That is how we strengthen our position as the EU's leading mining country. At the same time, it feels safe, good and certain that we now have a government that so clearly says no to uranium extraction. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-219	Mr President, I would like to It is a little fascinating that a moderate exercise from Västerbotten can stop the development in Åre. Then I need to ask you a few questions. How do the Social Democrats assess the introduction of the kilometer tax for Norrland when a motion from Västerbotten stops development? How unbelievably serious is it for growth and economic activity that you market to bring 4 billion to the mileage tax? Or did the honourable Member exaggerate something in his speech?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-221	Mr President, I would like to No, the social democrat didn't exaggerate. She was talking about the Ovik district. That's what I was talking about. We can see, because that's where the uranium deposits are, that this has stopped development. I certainly do not think that one exaggerates when one has a prime minister who clearly says that it is possible to open up to uranium. It goes without saying that it creates hopes in companies that want to exploit. It's not exaggerating, Ulf Berg, not at all. The Kilometer tax that you call it and the road wear charge that I would like to say has not yet been notified. However, I can say that for the mining industry, Norrbotniabanan and other investments north of Dalälven are incredibly important. Where do the Moderates stand on such a question?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-224	Mr President, I would like to Now we were close to being promised that the mileage tax would not become a reality. We just got word that the mining tax was probably not a good idea. But there's another line here, and then maybe that message could come. I don't think a moderate exercise on uranium mining stops the development, but I'm pretty sure that living in Jämtland too has the creative ability to ensure the development of its district. Surely it is now the case that today's Prime Minister – I assume you meant the former Prime Minister in your speech – is in favour of nuclear power. If so, it means that you think that someone else should break. That's the way it is with oil, gas and much more. Although we are politically agreed that tomorrow should not involve the use of fossil gas, oil and the like, there is a need today. Then it's a little interesting that you're categorically opposed– no one can do anything in my backyard – but if others do it, it goes perfectly well. That, in fact, is what government policy means, and I think that is very strange. As I said, if a moderate motion on uranium mining is causing so much misery, my belief is that the kilometre tax is a terrible thing for Norrland when it comes to decisions to invest in mines or in other activities if it is known that it will cost billions to businesses and industry.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-228	Mr President, I would like to I noticed that you did not answer the question about Nor r botniabanan and Moderatens opinion on expanding infrastructure north of Dalälven, Ulf Berg. But maybe we'll find out at another line shift on another day. You said we were investigating the road wear charge. It's not a secret. But that investigation hasn't arrived yet, and I didn't say "bu" or "ba" about it, because I want to see it when it's finished. Otherwise, you're absolutely right. It was Fredrik Reinfeldt, your party partner and Prime Minister of the Alliance, who opened up for uranium mining in Sweden. It is clear that it matters when other Moderates continue to do this and submit motions on the matter and that one feels a concern perhaps precisely for the Moderates and their opinion on opening up to uranium mining in Sweden. It's causing concern.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-231	Mr President, I would like to I can essentially agree with my fellow Member, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg, on what she has said here about the problem of the situation we find ourselves in in Jämtland. However, we draw different conclusions on how to resolve the issue. I am, I think, the only Member of Parliament who was both born and raised and lives in the Storsjö district, and it is Storsjöbygden we are talking about now. We notice how it is negative for the southern parts of the Great Lakes region in particular to have the latent threat of uranium mining lying like a wet blanket over the countryside. This means that both households and businesses are reluctant to invest because of uncertainty. This also means, in its extension, that these areas have a worse development than would be the case if the rules of the game for uranium mining were more long-term. I note that this government has taken a position on this issue. I don't think that's enough. We've had uranium mining and exploration in the country for decades. Uranium mining stopped in and for itself thanks to strong center involvement locally in Västergötland in the 70s. But this particular uncertainty and lack of long-term rules of play is not good. If long-term rules of the game are to be created regarding the risk of uranium mining, it is legislation that applies. That is why we in the Center Party have said that we want to make sure that the drilling rigs will stop rolling out on the fertile land in the Great Lakes region. We want to make sure that uranium mining via aluminum is not carried out. That is why we have raised our motion, and that is why Helena Lindahl has called for its approval and reserved herself in the Committee on Economic Affairs. With this, I would like to endorse the Center's reservation No 7.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-235	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your clarification, Per Åsling! That's good. I want to ask you something. You want, like me, an assurance that uranium mining does not hang over you as uncertainty, in many respects. Uranium is used for nuclear power. Do you think it is as important as we are that we receive an announcement that nuclear power in Sweden should not be expanded? It's for the nuclear power the uranium is used. Should politics point with the whole hand? Do you think, like me, that we should be sure that nuclear power is a non-issue in the country?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-238	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Birger Lahti. I'm smiling. I belong, of course, to the fighters against nuclear power for decades. I have been in the Barsebäck marches and the like and ran into the 80s with calls for a referendum on energy policy. The 2009 2010 decision on energy policy represents a first step towards the decommissioning of the reactors now in operation, by highlighting the revitalisation and costing of the nuclear industry. The Centre Party's long-term energy target is 100% renewable. That is the last goal we set for our meeting in Falun in September.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-242	Mr President, I would like to Sounds good to me, Per. I trust your commitment and what you're passionate about. But what your party is de facto committed to is a deal where you open up for the market to build nuclear power in existing locations. You do not point your whole hand and say: No, we do not want nuclear power. You are opening the door to the market if it sees that nuclear power is cheaper. You are not putting a stop when you constantly refer to the 2009 settlement. You have made it a requirement to make an energy settlement in the Energy Commission. Then there is also a blanket over the development. Someone is going to break uranium somewhere in the world, and someone is perhaps going to expand nuclear power in Sweden with the policy that you are behind, Per.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-244	Mr President, I would like to You do an amazingly strange analysis in your post, dear Birger. Nowhere in the world is nuclear power being built or planned without public subsidies. Who believes that nuclear power will be expanded on a market-based basis? I don't think either you or I believe it, my dear colleague. The energy policy we now have is clear. It is very clear that the focus should be on renewables and on environmentally sound and climate-smart energy supply. It is gratifying that the change is taking place quickly. It is also gratifying that the debate in this House has turned the way it has done over the years. We see the same direction in our surroundings. The focus is on renewable energy, in order to meet the climate challenges. But for us it is also a way of ensuring that the whole country has better opportunities to grow and develop. It is clear that the green atom, the cellulose, will be the basis for much of the future energy supply, not least with regard to the next generation of diesel and petrol in our vehicles. The decision made here in Parliament in 2009 has made a significant contribution to moving towards renewable energy and nuclear energy.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-248	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for reservation 1 under paragraph 3 from the Alliance, and of course I support the other moderate motions. Sweden is a fantastic country. Our countryside is complementary to urban society and vice versa. Without each other, both would stand flat. How many people from the big city go out to cottages, holiday homes, boats and motor homes? It's about recreation through tourism, such as activities, restaurants and cafes, and it's about outdoor life. It is about the combination of living and working in a growing city and going out and replenishing the senses, or living in the countryside or in towns outside the big cities and going into urban environments to experience the cultural elements such as the mouse, city walks and other sights. All of this, and more, creates opportunities for individuals and families. It creates jobs and businesses that feed on the tourism industry. There is a growing potential for our beautiful country, both within our own and from the perspective of future tourism. In the north we have the Ice Hotel that attracts tourists and space research that builds for the tourism industry. We have the privilege of living in a country where you can explore what happens to materials using light, at the MAX IV laboratory, and with neutrons, at ESS in Lund. There are great opportunities for industry and research to hook arms. The mine in Kiruna attracts visitors and provides jobs and jobs in the north, as we have heard in the mining industry debate. This also applies in Dalarna where you have Garpenberg. The other week I had the privilege of visiting Åre and AnnaAnna-Caren, who is sitting in this Chamber. Åre is a small town that is now well known, but this has not always been the case. The establishment of the cabin course has created opportunities for the tourism industry during the winter season. And small entrepreneurs have gained new opportunities through ski production, chocolate factory and much more. Now Jämtland faces two World Cups. What can you do next? Anything's possible. I believe in opportunities, but also realize that there is hard work behind it and that it is hard to get businesses to walk around. In this context, entrepreneurs and the ability to see opportunities are becoming extremely important. Sweden should take care of that. The localisation of authorities around the country is a matter of economy as well as accessibility, work and attractiveness. This is the case, for example, in Sundsvall, where CSN is located. It is therefore a good thing that it is now a united committee that points out to the government that the localisation of government should be a sharp part of regional growth policy. Mr President, I would like to Despite all the possibilities it offers to see the country as a whole, there is a mental division between country and city. That barrier in the tank must be removed. Rural ore, forest and agriculture have served Sweden well. With business as a motor it drives around service, school, health care and care and local parts. Our small, export-dependent country depends on the local presence of small companies mixed with larger companies to secure jobs and entrepreneurship in the long term, with the regional engine and the nation as its driving force. It is positive to see new businesses taking their place on Swedish soil. Several large international companies have established themselves in northern Sweden, not least Facebook that has established itself outside Luleå. It's a good place to be when cooling systems too many servers are needed. A new exciting industry is emerging. It is therefore important that Sweden can be a country with competitive advantages for start-up and continued growth. The cooling is free of charge, and security of electricity supply is needed at competitive prices. Electricity is therefore a very important raw material. This causes the government's policy to worry. The premature closure of nuclear power plants creates problems, not just for industry, which is at risk of production shutdown with high costs – and then we are talking about large costs per minute. It also plays a role in decommissioning that is not free. There are estimates of up to 21 000 jobs. A seminar will be held on this subject during the day. These are serious signals. Strong signals have also come from another direction on another issue, and they stand for the company Spotify. Spotify is trying to recruit and operate in the middle of the big city, but you are being stopped in your growth and development, which you cannot afford. The industry across the country is the engine in large and small where each gear hooks in each other. In this way, we get people and the jobs needed for local services, schools, care for the elderly and everything else – which I have previously mentioned – where you live and work. We take our starting point in the green industries as a growth engine and continue constructive work within the rural development programme that makes it easier for people to live and work outside the state environments. I grew up in a small mill in western Skåne, Bjuv. It is a place that for 75 years has been strongly associated with a food company called Findus. This is not just a food company, it is so much more about a sustainability spray with waste that becomes biogas, and high-quality harvests through long-term research and expertise lead to the best peas. Findus has baby food levels according to EU directives on its crops. The land in Skåne has benefited from growing peas in rotation with a crop rotation that provides better yield, reduces diseases and improves soil structure, which is good for both the economy and the environment. Each year 17 million kilograms of peas have been exported to Italy. Food for the elderly and the sick has been produced with special knowledge for people to be able to have a good time. I do not want to believe that this huge bank of knowledge will now be broken, and so I would like to stress the importance of Sweden being able to have competitive conditions in order to face a market that is becoming increasingly global. There is no need for higher taxes on entrepreneurship, not taxes on transport – mileage taxes – and not higher thresholds and more regulations for businesses. It is time to develop a recipe that allows companies to be and want to operate in Sweden, because it is out in the country locally that the successes become regional, national, European and global. But then it is not possible to believe that you can tax companies and impose charges here when they are not there. Sweden has all the conditions for growth with the green industries linked to the growing power of the food industry, not least in Skåne. The fertile arable land provides natural access to high-quality raw materials. Other values are our food and food where there is a market based on high-quality traceability. The question should be asked as to why there is no faith in Swedish venture capital for a long-term approach in Sweden. Foods processed through research have been able to provide new angles of approach and exciting activities. The question should also be raised in the case of public procurement. 1 000 billion annually is a great potential for companies to deliver raw materials and processed products to schools, elderly care and health care. This too is now under threat, with the government's new burden in the new legislation that is to come. Mr President, I would like to The attraction in Sweden is tourism, food and all parts that contribute to a vibrant and vital countryside, but broadband expansion and infrastructure are important parts to maintain the level of service. It must be possible to run companies and businesses in our country. Swedish companies – small, medium-sized and large companies – and the global competitiveness of industrial companies are essential for the continued success and well-being of Sweden. But the basis for global success is very much regional, yes, even local. Therefore, dear representatives of the government, what do you intend to do?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-274	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy 17 on regional growth policy. In this report, the Sverigedemok Democrats have two reservations, which the party naturally supports, but for time, I only ask for reservation 2. In this report, a unanimous committee proposes a declaration that the government should test the possibility of relocating authorities from major cities to rural areas. This is a good principle, and there will probably be many occasions to come back to the issue. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to see a cohesive Sweden where rural and sparsely populated areas are not forgotten for the benefit of the big city, where it is possible to stay in their ancestors' home areas so that the involuntary urbanisation is minimised. The fact that economic development is strongest in densely populated areas is a fact, but one should also have with it that some countryside, that some place of use must provide the city with food, other raw materials and products. We in the Swedish Democrats think that Sweden's districts are excellently suited for this task. Therefore, at least I object to the argument that, for example, Norrland would be boring because some regions receive certain subsidies, which is sometimes heard. Most recently, many rural areas outside the metropolitan area deliver great values in the use of natural resources, but their revenues mainly end up either with large companies or with the state. In other words, there may be both moral and rational reasons for compensating for resource-weak regions, or perhaps, under certain conditions, even ensuring that more of the value remains. Mr President, I would like to Today, there are rural resources that economically replace the areas affected by the expansion of hydroelectric power. The compensation is regulated by law and means that the person who has a permit for water activities must pay an annual district fee. These funds shall primarily compensate for the costs incurred in preventing or reducing damage or compensation for damage caused by water activities. The remaining funds will then be allocated by the County Administrative Board and can be used for both loans and grants to promote the local business community or service in the district. The corresponding land resources for wind power are not regulated by law, but are currently available on a voluntary basis around the country as a substitute for the stakeholders involved in wind power creations without being landowners. This lack of a clear regulatory framework has resulted in a variety of local varieties of district epeng at wind power installations, where even the replacement levels may differ up to a factor of ten. In order to create a stronger justice between different areas at a wind power establishment, we want land resources for wind power to be managed in the same way as for hydropower and future regulated by law. In this connection, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to The second reservation of the Swedish democrats in this report concerns the contribution to transport. The purpose of this contribution is to strengthen the ability to conduct economic activities in northern Sweden and to reduce the comparative disadvantages of being geographically far removed from the markets. However, in some years the transport premium has had a larger budget allocation in the state budget than was necessary to grant the applications received. As a result, during the last two years, the majority of the Riksdag has, in accordance with the Government's proposal, recommended that the appropriation be reduced. However, according to the Swedish Agency for Growth's administrators, there are various explanations that fewer and fewer people are applying for this grant. This is said to be due, for example, to the relocation or closure of businesses, which is, of course, deeply regrettable. However, there are also companies that are not aware that they can apply for the aid. We believe that companies in the area of aid are moving south within Sweden as a clear indicator that the transport contribution does not fully fulfil its purpose and that the level of compensation may even be too low. We therefore advocate that the Government review the compensation levels of the transport grant and, at the same time, commission the Swedish Agency for Growth to promote the possibilities of receiving the grant for the industry in the area of support concerned. Mr President, I would like to This was therefore a statement of the two reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but I would like to take this opportunity to raise another hot topic that may be crucial for the further development of many regions outside our major cities, and this concerns infrastructure policy linked to the so-called Swedish negotiation. At the moment, high-speed rail is being designed between our three largest cities. Personally, I was opposed to this project since 2010 when an SOU claimed to cost about 125 billion to implement the project. I was opposed simply because – after reading the question – I did not believe in costing. In addition, I found it difficult to see the great benefits of society. Now the work has moved on, and indeed the price tag has skyrocketed. The latest price data range from SEK 190 billion to SEK 320 billion. However, this is price data for incomplete construction. Many tens of billions are likely to be added to new stations, new high-speed rail links and the difficult and expensive access routes to cities, which are not even included. These astronomical costs are difficult to grasp, but if they are compared to the current level of infrastructure investment, the project becomes quite absurd, I think. Right now we invest about 20 billion per year in rail and road. The costs of high-speed rail may thus correspond to what we are investing for up to 20 years at the current rate of investment. So, as everyone reasonably understands, high-speed railways would for the foreseeable future become a black hole in the budget, a cuckoo who would eat up the space for much-needed investments around Sweden for a long time and actually completely drain the countryside. For this very reason, I think it is important to raise this issue when we are debating regional development. Mr President, I would like to The dream of a high-speed railway through Sweden, with trains rushing for over 300 kilometres an hour, has been a dubious project from the start, I mean. The project has been run with optimistic calculations of benefits and up to now with extreme joy calculations in terms of cost. Environmental arguments have also been put forward as drivers for this project, but I think they are so flawed that they are hardly worth addressing. In places in the world where this type of investment is made in high-speed trains and high-speed trains, there is usually a population base equivalent to the whole of Sweden at each stop. Sweden, on the other hand, is a large and sparsely populated country with a very limited customer base. Furthermore, ticket prices risk being so high that their use will be limited to a rather tight clientele or – if reversed – demanding high subsidies. An estimate from the Konjunkturinstitutet states that each ticket will have to be subsidised at SEK 700 – 800. There is no doubt that Sweden is in need of strong investment in infrastructure. Missing investments and maintenance have in Sweden built up an infrastructure debt of about SEK 150 billion, if you are to believe some external assessors. However, peers should be directed towards investment other than hip fantasy projects, not least towards the expansion of regional commuter trains, where the social benefits are high and bring great benefit to citizens. It must not be forgotten, however, that Swedish infrastructure is more than just trains. The vast majority of traffic is road traffic, which is also superior in terms of flexibility and new technical solutions. Environmentally friendly and self-driving electric cars are at the door, which in the near future will mean a revolution in our view of transport. But then you must not lock future generations into old technology. As a party, we in the Swedish Democrats have put our foot down on the question of Sweden's negotiations and the project with high-speed trains. We believe that the project should be scrapped as soon as possible. Now the question is how long it will take for you other parties to come to the same actual conclusion. Actually, I'm having a hard time seeing what you're waiting for. Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry I overwhelmed my time. ( TALMANN: I just wanted to point out that the time spent exceeded the time reported by more than 70%. )
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-304	Mr President, I would like to There was a lot about infrastructure, and we have a committee that is very committed to this issue. I pressed the reply button when Josef Fransson raised the issue of countering involuntary urbanisation. In my world, as I described it, there are two parts of Sweden: the city with suburbs and rural areas. Both are important and help us in different ways in a modern society. My question is brief: Does Josef Fransson and the Swedish Democrats believe that there is potential for development power in rural areas? It sounded like thinking of something that has stagnated and died away. That's not how I see the question. I see it as a great potential for development.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-307	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that there is potential for more people to live and live in rural areas. It is quite obvious to me, especially since I have previously worked on agricultural issues. It is a sector where there is a completely headless policy in Sweden. We believe that we need diesel taxes that are several times higher than in countries with which our farmers are to compete. For example, if Denmark has a tax rate well below the Swedish rate, it is clear that Danish farmers thus have competitive advantages. This means that Swedish farmers are knocked out and will not be able to operate in Sweden. Then what I mean continues is an involuntary urbanization because people can no longer live in their native areas. It could be an example. Maybe there's something else you can pull out. I do not know if that was the answer to Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's question.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-309	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Yes, the more taxes and charges are imposed on companies, the harder they have to compete. Public procurement also deals with food, which means that it is possible to deliver to the municipalities. However, the current government is now making proposals that will prevent agriculture from doing more of this. If we are to import more, there will also be less arable land used. For me, it is very important that Swedish agriculture and the Swedish countryside can contribute to the European and global in different ways. This means that one should also be able to export from the country. I would like Mr Fransson to tell us about his view of Sweden's potential as the small export-dependent country and of the opportunities in the countryside and in the city.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-312	Mr President, I would like to I'm not quite sure I understood the question. I didn't get the whole question, I feel. But it is clear that it would be great if Swedish food production could become more profitable and we could compete even better in an international market and export food products. We fully agree on that. I don't really know what else to say. We have a number of proposals, including a reduction in diesel tax. We are alone in Parliament to really want to make that difference. We are reducing the tax on diesel for Swedish agriculture, not generally. It's about 2.50 per litre – somewhere in those fags. I don't remember the latest number. These are things that would really make a difference for Swedish agriculture. I believe that the Swedish Democrats are the leading party for profitability in Swedish agriculture. I and the Swedish Democrats have nothing to be ashamed of in this area.
i-VT79pE2Jb7UvvGvbNTjqpD	Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 1, 3 and 8 in the report. Today we are debating such an important regional growth policy, which is an important instrument for us who want people to live and realise their dreams wherever they live in the country. The basis for positive development throughout the country is good conditions for SMEs that create jobs. Regional growth policy is not an issue to be discussed today only on the basis of the Committee on Economic Affairs' report. Regional growth issues must be seen when Parliament and the government deal with issues such as infrastructure, communications, jobs, education and enterprise policy in general. A well-functioning infrastructure and more housing are needed in both smaller and larger towns, towns and villages. Without the possibility of work commuting and freight transport, the job engine stops in Sweden. No matter where you live, you should have equal opportunities to settle, work and run a business. Equal opportunities mean a good school and access to mobile telephony, broadband, fuel, food, public services, communications, culture and nature. Equivalent opportunities throughout the country do not automatically imply uniformity. The same challenge can be solved in different ways in different parts of the country. A close-knit policy, in which decisions are made as few people as possible, enables such a development. I would like to take a small example of regional growth. We in Dalabänken were on a tour in Dalarna a couple of weeks ago together with the Speaker. It was a welcome event. We visited Vansbro. It is a small town that is perhaps famous for Björn Skifs, Gunde Svan and Vansbrosimningen. It also has much more, I must point out. There's a company called Lyko. There's a young man who started that company. Less than ten years ago, they began packing boxes behind his father's hairdresser's salon. Today they aim to put 1 billion into this small town. He hires hundreds of young people, and he wants to continue to expand. He has also started to build stores. It is basically an e-commerce company. He wants to expand in Sweden, the Nordic countries and Europe. He ran into obstacles. He wants to expand the factory where he package goods, but he's having trouble getting banks and venture capital to run. He finds it difficult to find labour, and the infrastructure and communications would need to be improved. It would be incredibly unfortunate if we were to pursue a growth policy in this country that forces expanding companies to move from small towns to larger ones because they do not have the right conditions. This is an example. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to see that there are so many claims in the Committee on Economic Affairs' report which want all parts of Sweden to be given the opportunity to develop and contribute to the country's growth. Of course, it is particularly gratifying to see that it is a unanimous committee that proposes an announcement to the government in which the committee believes that the government should test the possibility of relocating authorities from major cities to rural areas. The Centre Party has a special opinion under the heading V on horizontal issues of regional growth. We are, of course, in favour of the proposal in the report and the policy that we are presenting in our party motion. We can see that there is a consensus in the committee's report. However, we will of course follow up on our proposals at a later stage. As the report states, the interim report of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development contains very positive signals. I hope it will continue to do so. We have an alliance reservation No 1 dealing with commercial and public services in rural areas. We want people to be able to live and work in the countryside. There must then be access to a functioning service at a reasonable distance in terms of both commercial and public services. There are a number of good solutions around the country that we could use. Solutions are being built around established points of assembly, such as the local country dealer. The proposal, which the red-greens support, is that we want the government to review the regulatory framework in order to increase coordination between authorities and improve interaction between public and commercial actors in order to achieve a good public and commercial service across the country. We should be able to agree on that instead of waiting for an investigation. We all know it should be done. There is also a reservation on the re-imposition of funds from water and wind power. Just as we think that people should retain the fruits of their own work, we think it is reasonable for regions that contribute with valuable production to retain parts of this value. It must pay for municipalities and regions to improve their business environment, make productive investments and give land to important infrastructure and production. Therefore, we in the Center Party want the proceeds from the property tax on industrial properties and electricity-producing properties to be regionalised. In a first step, it is reasonable for the property tax on electricity-producing properties to be regionalised in order to return some of the value of climate-smart energy production to the regions concerned. As far as rural resources are concerned, we remain strongly critical of the Water Activity Investigation's proposal to repeal provisions on the cost of land. The annual payment totals somewhere between SEK 110 million and 130 million, and for some small municipalities there are large amounts. There will be a bill in September this year on water operations, I think. Then we shall come back to the matter. Mr President, I would like to There is also a reservation from the Center Party and the Left Party on local development and the Leader method. We share the view expressed in the motion that the Leader method should be used for rural development throughout the country. The method has worked well in Swedish countryside. It is a local decision-making and project funding for local development based on local conditions. It's very local, as you can hear. The business community, the non-profit sector and the public sector are involved in their own development, which I think is great. In the new programming period, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has decided for some unclear reason to opt out of five out of 53 areas in Sweden that are now unable to drive local development. This means that we do not get a coherent rural policy throughout Sweden, which is very unfortunate. Finally, I would like to comment on the specific opinion of the Centre Party under the heading of Human Capital and Gender Equality. We have supported the committee's position. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that SEK 36 million will disappear from the National Resource Centre for Women, which we call Winnet. Instead, the money goes to the Swedish Agency for Growth to integrate gender equality into the ordinary business. For more than 15 years, the organisation Winnet has been working to increase women's participation in entrepreneurship and with increased gender equality in the labour market. This is also implemented in cross-border cooperation in order for the model to be disseminated to other countries. Furthermore, the activities have a bottom-up approach, and the work is mainly carried out through the regional centres that currently exist throughout the country. In order for the work to be carried out in a more powerful and long-term manner, current governments have during the 15 years that the association has been actively supported with annual resource supplements. The mission has continued with the RIFT grant until 31 October 2015. Since then, Winnet's national management has worked hard to obtain information from the Ministry of Industry about the reason for the withdrawal of the operating grant, and no response has been received. Instead, we will have to start a whole new organisation based on the county boards and regions. This is done instead of using the non-profit organisation Winnet that has existed for 15 years and is represented throughout the country with its 8,000 members. It is thus the result of the gender equality work and the work of women's entrepreneurship from the feminist government.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-336	Mr President, I would like to The area of regional growth policy, or rather rural policy, as we should call it, is what we are now debating. It is, above all, an area in which there is a great deal of movement. I believe that this is mainly due to the fact that the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development was set up last year following an initiative by the Left Party. It now submitted its interim report on 31 March 2017 and will then submit its final report in January 2017. I myself have the privilege of sitting on the Rural Committee on behalf of the Left Party. I have to say that the Rural Committee's interim report was a success for rural areas. The Committee made four proposals. The first proposal is that the government must work more clearly with the governance of its authorities and how they should work to develop rural areas. The second proposal concerns the importance of education and training for the provision of skills in rural areas. Regional colleges and universities are particularly important in this respect. We need to create more flexible training solutions, and that task needs to be clarified to the authorities involved in education. The third proposal is that Sweden should have a new broadband target of 100 percent broadband to the Swedish population by 2025. Today we have a broadband target of 90% by 2020. This means that we do not have a plan for how 10 per cent of Sweden's population will get broadband or fast connection. How can we create a Sweden that stays together if the whole country does not have the same goal? The fourth proposal is that the state authorities should be relocated so that the state has a good presence throughout the country. That is mainly the question I was going to dwell on today. The committee has a unanimous announcement that more state authorities should be relocated. The work to change Sweden's government structure took off when the Left Party began budget negotiations with the government. Then we got through the requirement that when the government creates new authorities they should always be located outside Stockholm County. We have also made it clear that the state agency Statskontoret would make a report on how the organisation of the state has changed over time. It was a report just two weeks ago. We also made sure that the Rural Committee's task was to check the importance of government jobs in rural areas. In last autumn's budget we got through that the State Service Centre, an authority governed by the state, will investigate which authority functions can be relocated. It is a report that will be presented next year. After that, the government has presented in a debate article on the DN Debate by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Civil Affairs that it wants to change the regional balance. Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi was out at the turn of the month after the Rural Committee's interim report and Statskontoret's report were presented and promised a proposal later this year. Today, both the Committee on Economic Affairs and a little later this evening, the Committee on Finance is debating two declarations on the basis of bourgeois motions for state authorities to be relocated from Stockholm either to the countryside or to the suburbs. I would call it breaking open doors – or rather wide open doors. Nevertheless, this is a good thing. A united rural committee means that all parties think the same thing. But after all, it's just an investigation. Now there is a united parliament that will say that it is time to relocate government agencies. I hope that also applies when sharp proposals are on the table. Then there will be Directors-General around our country who will be very resisting. It is clear that relocation is needed. 60% of all government agencies' headquarters are located in Stockholm. Two out of three government jobs are located in Stockholm, Västra Götalands, Skåne, Uppsala or Östergötland County. The other 16 counties may divide the last third. This gives us an urban state. It is a state that simply has poor knowledge of what it is like to live, live and run businesses in rural Sweden. We can't have that. A decentralised state administration with knowledge of regional and local conditions is actually the foundation for a Sweden that stays together. However, the government needs to act urgently on this issue. There is a need to ensure that government jobs currently available in rural areas remain. It was therefore a good idea to stop the relocation of 500 jobs within the Swedish Tax Agency's nine different offices in the countryside. Now the government also needs to relocate the entire authorities as well as certain functions from Stockholm to the countryside. In this work, Denmark can serve as a model. There, the government has recently decided to relocate 3 900 government jobs from the Copenhagen region to 40 locations throughout Denmark. Mr President, I would like to The Leader method, later called locally led development, has been a success story in Swedish rural areas since it was introduced in 1996. The method has involved local decision-making on project funding for local development based on local conditions. The work has been carried out in accordance with the so-called Leader method, which involves a three-partnership between local businesses, the non-profit sector and public actors, mainly municipalities. Financial funding has followed the EU's programming periods with seven-year budgets. This is why it was time to restart the Leader areas in 2015. However, the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the State Authority, decided to exclude five areas out of 53 on the grounds that they were not considered to have good enough strategies to become a priority within the budgetary framework of the Swedish Board of Agriculture. The removal in this way of five areas comprising 437 000 rural inhabitants in 31 municipalities from eight counties from the north to the south from forming Leader areas is very bad. These five are all areas that have existed in the past where local skills and experience have been built up for a long time. Not including these leads to a less coherent rural policy, as not all areas have the same conditions. It is nothing more than unfortunate when we say that we want a Sweden that stays together. The government should therefore ensure that the Leader method is used for rural development throughout the country. Why not restart with a special experimental effort in just these areas where really new methods are being tested? Yesterday, a JO notification was submitted from the municipalities Umeå, Bjurholm, Nordmaling, Vindeln, Robertsfors and Vännäs that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has actually made a mistake. The report was submitted to the Ombudsman on the basis that 31 municipalities in the country have been excluded. The representatives point out that the municipalities have carefully analysed the situation and ask the JO to pay particular attention to 20 points where it is questioned, among other things, how it is regionally correct that Skåne receives as much funding as the four northern counties together. It is written that if the whole of Sweden is not to be included, it should not be a government or parliament that should decide which areas should be excluded. I think you have a good point. In fact, there should be no political difference of opinion on this. I am therefore pleased that the Center Party has chosen to support the Left Party's motion. If we are to have a regional growth policy that works, we cannot opt out of certain areas, but the whole of Sweden must stick together. Today, the Left Party also has a reservation on rural security. It is a method that is used successfully in the UK and Ireland, where all political decisions are secured in rural areas. This means that all decisions are analysed on the basis of their impact on rural areas. I hope that the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development will be able to delve into this issue and come up with a number of proposals, and that we in the Committee on Economic Affairs will be able to make progress on a future study trip to Britain this autumn so that we in Sweden can also secure all political decisions in rural areas. The Left Party also has a motivational reservation that rural resources from wind power should be returned to the countryside. This is an issue that I hope the government will come back to in connection with a proposal this autumn. The Left Party has three reservations in this report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 8 on the Leader method throughout the country.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-361	Mr President, I would like to Globalisation leads to changes that have different impacts in different parts of Sweden. Society is changing, and urbanisation is fundamentally based on people's free choice. That is something that I and the Liberals are defending. At the same time, there are challenges in the differences between cities with a strong growing private service sector and areas with high vulnerability and local challenges in the form of a few industrial employers. In municipalities where day-to-day notice and depopulation are day-to-day, the consequence is an ageing population and a reduced tax base. The starting point for me as a liberal is the protection of people's power over their own situation and the ability to create their own future. A liberal rural policy therefore seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in a smaller urban area. I grew up in the metropolis of Sveg myself. We call it the metropolis because it has an airport, a high school and a large health centre, but it is located in the middle of the beautiful sparsely populated area. There is less than one person per square kilometre in Härjedalen. Business development, labour supply, education and access to public and commercial services are therefore essential elements of a modern, regional growth policy and a prerequisite for the functioning of life outside urban areas and for living rural areas. In order for people to want to live and companies to want to operate throughout Sweden, in places like Bjuv or Sveg, it is important that there is access to a functioning and basic service at a reasonable distance. This applies, of course, to public authorities as well as municipal services and the business community. Maintaining a basic level of service throughout the country is also important for people to feel safe. It is also necessary for the whole of Sweden to be able to make a positive contribution to the reception of refugees. The various functions of society need to be available in rural and sparsely populated municipalities as well as in urban municipalities. In sparsely populated areas, service solutions based on local conditions and collaboration with entrepreneurs and civil society have the opportunity to become long-term and sustainable. However, in some sparsely populated areas, the conditions are limited for commercial operators to be able to contribute to the creation of a good supply of commercial services. We therefore want to improve the availability of local services, as indicated in exercise 2454. Furthermore, we believe, in line with what is proposed in motions 1190, 1934 and 3147, that the government should review the regulations and increase coordination between authorities and improve collaboration between the public and the business community. We request the approval of reservation 1 in paragraph 3.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-369	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 from the Alliance and reservation 9 from the Christian Democrats. Regional growth has been debated many times in this House. The word growth creates different thoughts and thoughts in us. Some people now argue that we should not even use that word because we should all live in the circular economy. This is something that I am happy to endorse in the sense that we should make the best possible use of Earth's resources. However, we must also note that it is important that there are opportunities for localities, businesses and different types of activities to expand and be in the best possible places for their particular way of working or for finding human or financial resources. Then we actually need to talk about regional growth in Sweden. We have heard from several previous speakers here how different things can look around Sweden, not least with access to broadband and other communications. The infrastructure is important to all of us. We had a debate here earlier on mineral policy. We note that this policy and industry has guided many of the larger and smaller locations in Sweden that have had mining and mineral deposits and worked to develop iron and steel mills. Unfortunately, today it is precisely those towns, the small towns that are usually called mills, that suffer most from the lack of growth. The other week we heard the well-known Swedish company Spotify talk about the lack of housing. Many companies have already talked about this before. This is nothing new to us; we all know that there is a shortage of housing in Sweden today. But when Spotify, a successful company that is young and new and fresh, says it suddenly gets unbelievably much bigger. When a construction company, a steel company or any other more established business said something similar, there has been no attention whatsoever. But we have to thank Spotify for paying attention to this and making some demands on us politicians, let's say, to do what we can to get more housing. It was not so many years ago that these small towns demolished apartment buildings. There was simply no possibility of rent income, not least in municipal housing companies. The other week I saw an interesting feature on TV about Älmhult. Älmhult cannot be counted as one of the larger cities in Sweden, but there is an extremely large and successful Swedish company through an unusually large entrepreneur: Ingvar Kamprad. The feature showed how schools had been expanded with the help of employees at Ikea, not least all the international employees who were and are there, and how satisfied they were. In several interviews presented in the TV programme, they noted that it was a small town that they had moved to from different countries but that there was great service, a fantastic community and a special spirit in the district that they appreciated very much – and it was not so far to Malmö, Copenhagen and the continent. I think we may not be able to look forward to so many more Ikea or larger companies of that magnitude in Sweden. But we can all contribute to the growth and development of the companies that still exist in the areas. We simply need to ensure that there is a service of both a public and a commercial nature. In Älmhult it is no wonder that the local service also works, given that there are so many both national and international employees. But what happens in the small towns, for example in my constituency of Dalsland? How do you cater for the services of the people who live there so that they don't have to go 100 miles to refuel the car or do a simple errand in a store? Here we are the big challenge, and since I came into Parliament five years ago I have felt that we are a little stomping on the same spot. We have not really been able to find out how to solve the problems of small towns. We haven't figured it out. But now I'm actually seeing a light on this front. I believe that through the large number of new Swedes who have come to our country we can certainly boost growth in the countryside as well. It is therefore of great importance that the project funds allocated by the state, regions, county councils, EU funds and so on are coordinated so that it is as good as possible. That is precisely what the Christian Democrats' reservation is about. If we are to be able to get growing business you must be able to apply for funds for small businesses as well as for individual schools or something else. But then there must be coordination so that these project funds do not counteract each other, as there are quite a few examples. The County Administrative Board is also a villain in this drama, I dare say. We need good regional restructuring in this country. The investigation into the appearance of the new regions has aroused a lot of emotion, but I think we need to find that we need to have larger and more appropriate regions. I have previously stood in this speaker's chair and said that I believe in six regions in Sweden, where we have not least care in focus with university hospitals as nodes for the regions. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words before I stop, Mr President, about the importance that we continue to take the party of regional airports – regardless of the party – because we need a regional infrastructure that resists the EU's various ideas on how to organise ourselves in Sweden in this area. We need to ensure that there is an opportunity to get to and from the small towns as well as the large ones, and then the national infrastructure is incredibly important. We'll also have trains that work. Whether it is high-speed trains or regional trains that go somewhat slower, we must ensure that they are available for visitors so that we develop the important tourism industry but above all for the people who have chosen to live in towns outside the big cities.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-390	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report on Regional Growth Policy. There are some reservations, but overall we are quite in agreement with many parts of the report. In the case of many of the reservations, work is under way. Not least the Rural Committee, as many have mentioned, is working fully. Parliament's goal for regional growth is development power in all parts of the country with strong local and regional competitiveness. Regional considerations shall be taken into account in other policy areas. What is important is infrastructure, communications, employment policy, education policy and what we are working on in the Committee on Economic Affairs: enterprise policy. In June 2015, the Government appointed a parliamentary committee to make proposals for the development of a coherent policy for long-term sustainable development in Sweden's rural areas. Already on 31 March 2016 – a few weeks ago – the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development presented its interim report, on the road to a new policy for rural Sweden – rural development, opportunities and challenges. In the report, the Committee has mapped out and analysed how Sweden's rural areas have been developed over the last 40 years and what impact and significance the policy has had on rural development, regardless of who has ruled the country. The Committee also describes the development of areas, housing, community planning, infrastructure, commercial and public services, skills provision, business and entrepreneurship. Some of the Committee's conclusions are important. Firstly, the Committee believes that Sweden needs a more coherent and active rural development policy. Secondly, the Committee believes that households and entrepreneurship in Sweden must be able to benefit from the possibilities of digitalisation. It also states that the government should, as soon as possible, develop proposals for a new target formulation in this area so that the whole population will have access to infrastructure with high transmission capacity by 2525. Thirdly, in the Committee's view, conditions need to be created for the provision of skills throughout the country. Fourthly, the Committee believes that the government should, as soon as possible, initiate what we have discussed a great deal here today, namely the relocation of state authorities and jobs so that they can contribute to development and the growth of the whole country. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that a united committee, like the Rural Committee, is proposing an announcement to the Government in response to the motion for a resolution on the localisation and organisation of state authorities. The committee believes that the government should examine the possibility of relocating authorities to rural areas. In appropriate contexts, the Government should also report back to the Riksdag what measures have been taken and how the principles established by the Riksdag have been applied. Mr President, I would like to Politics must be an effective tool for fair, inclusive and sustainable development in all regions of Sweden, both in rural and rural areas and in large cities. In this way, politics can face today's major societal challenges, linked to demography, globalisation, climate and energy. At the same time, Sweden faces major challenges. However, we should remember that the prospects for the Swedish economy are good. Growth is high today. Unemployment is falling, and the large budget deficit after the previous government has actually fallen sharply. In the spring budget presented by the government last week, the joint construction of society is given priority over major tax cuts and cuts, while at the same time taking care of the immediate challenges facing Sweden. Already we are investing SEK 60 billion in our community building, and this autumn we are proposing to strengthen welfare by SEK 10 billion annually to municipalities and county councils. In fact, it is the largest single, permanent contribution since the general state contribution was introduced. This is important to mention, because all parts of our country should live and develop, and if we are serious about regional growth policy, tax-reduction policy must be stopped and investment made by all our Sweden. Step by step, our community building is strengthened. More people are coming to work. Schools are starting to hire. Sweden is currently leading the climate change transition. Well-being is strengthened. It is a policy that takes responsibility for the whole of Sweden and actually shows results. In doing so, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-404	Mr President, I would like to We do not deal with infrastructure issues in our committee, but we deal with regional development and growth policies. The Swedish negotiation, which is now being discussed and planned, is, I believe, incredibly important when it comes to the regional development of the rest of Sweden. Up to 320 billion for an incomplete project – that's what you expect this to cost. Then you do not have the important route Järna – Stockholm. That bottleneck's still there. The Lund – Malmö section has not been solved. The entrance to Gothenburg has not been redeemed. Then you want to bury the stations in Linköping and Jönköping. There's a need for connecting paths. Here we probably have a package where the cost is another 100 billion, I would argue, between the thumb and the index finger. Then we're up to over 400 billion. Instead, we could invest in expanding regional traffic in certain areas where the social benefits are great. We can trim the Stockholm – Gothenburg section on the existing main track, according to some assessors from today's three hours to about two and a half hours, at a cost of approximately SEK 15 billion. There are a lot of important and necessary infrastructure projects, and so are these science fiction projects that will eat up the infrastructure budget for the next 20 years, if we start from the pace of investment that I described in my speech. How do the Social Democrats view this issue today? Isn't it time to pull the emergency brake?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-409	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Josef Fransson! Should we pull the emergency brake, as Josef Fransson put it? There are negotiations going on, and I do not want to anticipate what they will land in. Clearly, there is an enormous need for investment in infrastructure in many parts of our country. It is clear that it would have liked there to have been more resources than those currently available to invest in infrastructure so that Sweden is competitive and so that we have good communications to our ports and companies that get their goods and products on the world market in the light of the export strategy decided in this House a few weeks ago. There is also an area which is partly inhibiting growth, namely the fact that we have a shortage of housing in the country. This is an issue that is linked to the infrastructure and which is extremely important to invest in so that the companies that establish themselves can employ and draw skills to the area where they have their business. Then you have to have a place to live. Both investment in housing and investment in infrastructure are a priority for the government. Efforts are being made for more housing today, and Sweden's negotiations are ongoing. Precisely what priorities this will lead to, I will not anticipate in this House right now.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-412	Mr President, I would like to In my world, this debate should already be finished. The data that have come to light on this project should produce a fairly clear result: this is not a good project. It's not a sensible project. It is perhaps the largest single investment in Swedish history and perhaps the largest transfer of value from rural to city ever. I really can't see how this can be a rational way of developing Sweden. There are very few people who benefit from this, and in my opinion the benefits are very limited. We are talking about housing here, but it is not that you work commute long distances to Stockholm just because the housing is so cheap in Gothenburg or in Jönköping. If we want to have work commuting and develop the housing market, we must invest in the regional strings, so that people can live a few miles from their workplace and commute in a smooth way. I mean, that's how the infrastructure is best developed. Then you can't lock yourself in this technology. It's astronomical sums we're talking about for something we're gonna get 20 years ahead of time. At the same time, the development is progressing very fast with electrified roads, electric cars and self-driving cars that can pick up one outside the house and drive one in a very environmentally friendly way directly to work. You don't have to get to a train station first or any kind of transfer. This, as I said in my speech, will revolutionise our whole view of modes of transport. No, this is a backward way of thinking. It should never have been started in a sparsely populated country like Sweden. I think it's time to put your foot down, because this costs at least 1 million a day as long as you're planning. I think it is an extreme waste of tax revenue to spend and project this.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-417	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely as Mr Fransson began by saying at the turn of the line that this is an issue that may be discussed mainly in another committee. But this is the Enterprise Committee. And, of course, in terms of business and job creation opportunities and getting goods, products and services on the world market, it is dependent on efficient transport, functioning infrastructure and regions where you can spend work. Perhaps you can increase the labour market regions with the efforts that are under way and do things, not least linked to the Swedish negotiations. The outcome remains to be seen. I am grateful for the clarity shown by the Swedish Democrats.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-419	Mr President, I would like to Financial policy is based on burning when things are going badly to maintain and develop a country that is going downwards. In a boom, people tend to try to hold back to get an airbag for worse times. Right now it's booming. At the same time, the government is on fire. 450 jobs are moving away from Findus, with employment effects in large parts of Skåne and up to Halland. It's about 500 contracted farmers – it's a low value. They are regional and local suppliers and subcontractors. Research is on its way out. At the same time, we have county councils and municipalities that make purchases for 1 000 billion. They could be part of the agriculture we have and of the countryside and sell their raw materials to municipalities and county councils. It makes it difficult for these companies to participate in these contracts. In the energy sector, nuclear decommissioning is premature, with up to 21 000 jobs in danger and technology. Spotify has difficulty recruiting and finding housing. It is a service sector that we need and that we need to see grow, where people can get their first job. It's about entry-level jobs and starting businesses so that others can go to their jobs in a modern welfare with everyday puzzles, not least for women. It's all about these questions about things that you can see behind the next corner. Having said that and given the difficulties and what is happening in Sweden, I would like to ask Mattias Jonsson: What is the plan forward?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-425	Mr President, I would like to I must begin by saying that I am extremely pleased and proud that we have a social democratic government with the Green Party at this time. You yourself mention the miserable decision that has been made regarding the connection with Findus. We have a government that has now invested in the unemployment fund. We are investing in the Swedish model. I am listening to the debate. I would have liked the various political parties, regardless of where they originated, to be able to stand up for the employees and for an enterprise linked to the food industry in a better way than to have a debate with pie throwing. It's a low-water mark. Then there is the plan ahead. Yes, we make investments in the Swedish model. I mentioned it in my speech. We strengthen the Swedish model in society historically, with 10 billion. I can only note that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar stands for the policy in which you have announced that you are lowering the tax, or rather: you are lowering the unemployment fund and the sick by 29 billion. That's where the big sinks lie. You go back to the old policies, which do not benefit Sweden and which do not develop Sweden. We make investments in Sweden. That is the answer to what we are investing in the future.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-429	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, you can turn a question around and get it to what you want. There is no one who is not worried and concerned about what is happening. What concerns me, Mattias Jonsson, is actually the high taxes that are being put on entrepreneurship and all the regulatory problems and that a farm is being placed in this way. I want this to be taken care of. That's what I'm saying. I ask: what is the plan to exploit jobs, opportunities in Skåne and research so that we do not stand without this in the future? Food is made for elderly care, for schools, and for people who feel bad and find it difficult to eat. I'm concerned. I'm worried sick. That's why I'm raising the question. It is not a question of anything other than the fact that there is a consensus on solving this at local level. But I have to ask the government: how can the answers be higher taxes and more regulatory problems and problems for companies to move forward? That's what I want you to answer, Mattias Jonsson. They should not have reduced taxes. So they're supposed to have higher taxes. Does it help the population of Sweden and entrepreneurship?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-432	Mr President, I would like to I think we must dare to raise our eyes. Action has now been taken. These include reductions in employers' contributions for young people. After that, it has cost over 100 billion people accumulating during your time, and it has increased youth unemployment. It is one tax reduction after another that has not bitten to bring down unemployment. Then one must dare to reconsider politics and make efforts that bite. A few weeks ago I talked to some business representatives who put it this way: Now the star signs are right for the growth to be optimal, so that we can hire and live well in Sweden and develop. We have 100,000 vacancies today in the country. It's increased. Unemployment is falling. Growth is increasing. The state finances look better than in a very long time. Then we must also dare to invest in the Swedish model, on welfare, while meeting the needs of companies with what we call 2016 – the year of vocational education and training. It is a question of meeting the needs of entrepreneurs and of supplementing training with a view to becoming employable and entering the labour market. What you cut down on, we're spending resources on today. It is development for Sweden linked to a new export strategy, new industrialization and the L andrural Committee, which is on the roll. And we have the Energy Commission to get sustainable energy types and sustainable price development for the entrepreneurs in the country. That is the policy of the future.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-437	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions that I want to ask Mattias Jonsson and that I think many around the country also want to get some clarity in. The first concerns localised development and Leader areas, which I have touched on in the speech. I wonder a little how Mattias Jonsson and the Social Democrats view that five areas in Sweden – 31 municipalities, 437 000 inhabitants and eight counties – have been removed and are outside this development programme and whether Mattias Jonsson has a point of view on the fact that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has been notified, which we heard Håkan Svenneling talk about in his speech. Do the Social Democrats think that the decision means that Sweden has a coherent rural policy, and is it a good regional growth policy to do in this way? My second question concerns the well-functioning non-profit activities that Winnet has been engaged in for 15 years to increase women's participation in entrepreneurship and to increase gender equality. Instead, a new organisation will now be built based on the county administrative board and the regions. Does Mattias Jonsson think this is a good decision?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-440	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter, for the questions! I thought there was a lot in your speech earlier that was appealing. That was a good speech to a large extent. As far as localised development is concerned, we stand by and have debated precisely that we believe that funds will seem better if we have the opportunity locally to ensure that they have the best effect. It is about that you can make decisions locally so that it is not, if you can put it that way, in Stockholm all decisions are made. It's out in the country that you make those decisions. I am not going to go into this debate because I know it too badly. On the question of whether we are satisfied with rural policy, I reply that if we had been completely satisfied, we would not have started the Rural Committee. As I also said in my speech, V i can say that, in fact, whatever the government colour we have had in the last 40 years, a different priority would have been needed. When we look in the rear-view mirror, we can of course see how rural development has been, what decisions have been taken and what effects it has had. Nevertheless, we now have a partial report in which we agree. We have a composite committee that continues to point to further proposals in which, hopefully, we can get broad agreements presented in this House so that we can have a better rural policy. Winnet has been operating for about 15 years, and it was the former Social Democratic government that launched it. I think it was Messing Messing who pushed that question in the government back then. It's not that we're pulling in some money, but the 36 million that's gone to Winnet today goes through the Swedish Agency for Growth. So the money is not gone; it is working in the regions today.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-446	Mr President, I would like to In any case, it is not a clear statement if you think it is a good thing that these five areas are excluded. Since the majority of the committee does not support the reservation we have, I assume that it does not fully share the view that it is unfortunate that these five areas are disappearing. As for Winnet, I agree it's not about the money. But it breaks down a well-functioning operation and will instead steer it through regions and county boards. Winnet is a nonprofit that has worked very well and worked locally. That is why I find it unfortunate that the government has laid down a budget that destroys the business, even if it does not take away the money.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-449	Mr President, I would like to Locally led development is also a matter for the Rural Committee. I would like to emphasise that the question of how we should work locally on such issues is there and is being brought there. Back to Winnet and that it has worked very well: Yes, it has done in many parts. But there have also been reports with a certain criticism, we should be honest and say, of Winnet's activities. Sweden has the world's first feminist government, and that is extremely important. We have a focus on gender equality and women's entrepreneurship, and we are now redirecting the money to the regions. There are all the possibilities for Winnet to be involved in that work, although the money is controlled in a different way. There have been programming periods of three years, and this has now expired. Now it is simply another type of governance of funds, but gender equality and women's entrepreneurship is a priority for the government and S and MP here in Parliament.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-453	Mr President, I would like to Regional growth is essential to enable people to live and operate throughout the country. When I look at statistics on the movement of the population from city to country, I see that it is not as dramatic as I thought. When we talk about this, it's like everyone from the country is moving into the city, but that's not really the case. There are many who move into the countryside as well. I read about AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg Åre in the newspaper Land on 19 August 2015. They increased their population by 135 persons. This also happens in many other locations. In an interview with Lina Bjerke, a doctoral student in economics at Jönköping School of Economics, she highlights a number of important parameters for increasing migration to rural municipalities. We need good schools and good childcare, and here the government is actually investing in more adults at school, providing better and safer schools and more jobs. We also invest more money in the municipalities. Much goes to the small municipalities in the countryside. A good and well-developed infrastructure that allows both commuting to nearby larger towns and a well-developed broadband that provides fast and reliable connectivity can increase opportunities for companies to establish themselves and for individuals to work and study remotely. Small rural municipalities can often also offer lower housing prices, lower stress levels and good opportunities for recreation. Important is also a good business environment that enables the establishment and development of already established companies. Many of the m who run businesses are individual entrepreneurs who will now have the opportunity to hire a person with a reduced employer's contribution over a year. It is therefore extra fun to read about reporting on small businesses. For the second year in a row, Swedish small businesses are increasing their profitability throughout the country, according to recent figures from the LRF Consultant. Almis new microloans aimed at start-ups and micro-enterprises with up to 10 employees can be provided with particularly favourable conditions, such as a certain period of grace and limited collateral for borrowers. This will enable many new groups to start and grow. Mr President, I would like to The Government's objective is that the whole of Sweden should have the conditions for development and to provide tools that make life easier for those who want to live in rural areas. On 25 June 2015, the Government appointed a parliamentary committee to present proposals for the direction and formulation of a coherent policy for long-term sustainable development in Sweden and its rural areas. At the end of March, an interim report was submitted. The Rural Committee identified several factors that make them think that there are good conditions for sustainable development and growth in Sweden's rural areas. Many of these factors coincide with those mentioned by Lina Bjerke. For example, rural areas are rich in natural resources and raw materials, and the Committee believes that a number of rural industries will play a crucial role in the transition of society to a bio-based and climate-friendly economy. In addition, Sweden's rural areas have special assets in the form of natural and cultural landscapes. The Committee also points out that in many parts of Sweden there are world-unique places and experiences, which means that there are good opportunities for development and growth in the tourism industry. Finally, the Committee also stresses that women and men who have chosen to settle, live and operate in Sweden's rural areas are an important factor in promoting positive development. The Committee points out that there are many examples of rural areas full of committed, creative and active people and businesses. The rural development programme, which is part of the EU's strategy to achieve the objectives of the common rural policy and which is funded approximately half of Sweden and half of the EU, will make an effort in the period 2014–2020 to support commercial services and local service development under the programme with SEK 750 million. This will undoubtedly provide the opportunity for more small municipalities to increase the service to their residents. Going around the country and meeting different people and getting to know their stories is one of the things that gives substance to my work. A couple of weeks ago I had the privilege of going north to Östersund, Sundsvall and Hudiksvall and visiting various activities. I was at Birka folk high school, which is located in Krokoms municipality. Folk high schools are of great importance to many people in the country and often lie a little on the outskirts. I have both studied and worked as a teacher at folk high school and know that the atmosphere and pedagogy give many a new chance in life. At Birka there are many different courses, including general line for those who do not have full upper secondary school skills, music line and a slightly shorter course for new arrivals. I was in Ås, where our only food craft center Eldrimner is located. It gives the country's small-scale producers of food such as dairy, charcuterie, bread, ice cream and much more the opportunity for first-class education. As a result, more people gain knowledge about starting up, for example, dairy farms and shops with products made on the farm. In other words, the value added of the farm's production is growing here and an opportunity for us to have access to a genuine food craft. In Östersund I also met a woman who had moved with her family from Stockholm to live a less stressful life with the opportunity to take a trip up the mountain when they feel like it to breathe clean air and enjoy nature. For her it became possible because there is a government authority in Östersund where her education and experience were requested. For a district to live and develop, there must be all kinds of work. Government agencies and higher education institutions are then a hub with good development opportunities, innovation and research. Mr President, I would like to The whole country should have the opportunity to grow and develop. The tourism industry is an industry that is growing throughout Sweden. We have unique cities and a countryside that invites you with many different views from north to south. We have Ishotellet, Kungsleden and medium-sized picturesque cities with a long and exciting history. We have our entire fantastic coast with a wonderful archipelago in several places. In southern Sweden we have a farming landscape with arable land and fruit farms. It is important to see both the city and the country and value their various opportunities for development. In this case, I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-469	Mr President, I would like to I was going to dwell on food crafts, Elisabet Knutsson. I will come back to the question that now affects us a lot at home in Skåne, given the situation of Findus and its situation. The company has been doing research for a long time and today has a cultivation that brings it below the levels of baby food in the EU directives. So you can get crops that you can't really get in the same way if you grow organically. You have an additive that the plant uses, and when it is finished the additive is gone. This means that the production is large and that you get almost full coverage of what you do. When it comes to the values that research entails and the entire quality work, I am interested to hear how Elisabet Knutsson views this. It is about nurturing these values. Today we import a large proportion of organic crops. I don't mind organic crops. At the same time, however, there is far-reaching research that shows good results both when it comes to providing people with food and when it comes to growing. I think it would be terrible if this were to disappear, and I would therefore like to know how Elisabet Knutsson views it. I would also like to draw attention to the issue of the Chemicals Inspectorate, on which the Moderate Committee has a motion in the Committee on Industry. We want the agency to work side by side with companies so that we get a development and not just a decommissioning and a stop and evidence. Instead, chemicals should be seen as part of something positive, and we should be able to replace others and provide help and support along the way. I would like to know what Elisabet Knutsson has to say about that.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-472	Mr President, I would like to There is no one who can regret the closure of Bjuv more than all of us sitting here. I don't think anyone here thinks this is a good thing. It is not so many months since Bucht was down and opened this amazing facility. How can we, as a state, go in and stop such closure? In many cases companies say: We move because the workforce is better in another place. We move because the economy is better in another place. But that's not really the case here. As I understand it, there is a collection on the question that we absolutely want Findus to remain. I know that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs have been down in Bjuv and have talked with Findus on the matter. It is amazing to have a high level of expertise in food research in our country. I'm thinking we need to be able to do things once we get together after what's happened in Bjuv.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-475	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that, Elisabet Knutsson! Of course, nobody thinks this is a good thing; on the contrary, we all think it is a bad and boring development we are looking at. There is a collection of politicians and a total collection in society. There is also a collective letter to the government from the Family Helsingborg, that is, the surrounding municipalities, across party boundaries. The big question is that you are on the road as part of this in order to find solutions that you need to take advantage of in order to move forward in this. I have no doubt that there is no one who thinks this is a good proposal. I just want to hear how you look at developments. That is also why I asked the questions about taxes and charges in the future. You can look at companies how important it is that we have a country that can compete with other countries and be in a market to create development and growth here at home in Sweden.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-478	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! We all want us to be able to sell a lot, grow a lot, get good food and so on. I'm thinking that's exactly what we're gonna do. We're gonna grow fantastic food and get into premium class. We will ensure that those who work with us in our farms and in our operations will be able to get a good salary, a good housing and a good education. To this we will add good research.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-480	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has produced a report that reveals serious shortcomings mainly in relation to the county boards' emergency preparedness. This is a criticism of a lack of cooperation, of little practice and of too little continuity. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at the grants that will run emergency preparedness on the county boards and that MSB gives to them. It is now so bad that project appropriations are larger than administrative appropriations. This makes it difficult for county boards to plan their operations. The report also deals with defence support for civil society. The commemorator can recall that in 2004, in connection with the then adopted orientation decision, it was decided that the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society would no longer be dimensional. Mr President, I would like to This, I believe, had almost fatal consequences, including for our helicopter weapon. When the helicopters no longer needed to work day after day to rescue patients in the archipelago or extinguish forest fires, our military helicopters in general stopped working. During this period there were also a large number of serious accidents and no less than 14 people were killed between 2000 and 2007. At the same time, the helicopter weapon suffered major delays in the delivery of, among other things, a new sea operating helicopter. One could say that the helicopter weapon somewhere ten years ago had something of a near death experience in the Swedish Armed Forces. When support for civil society was phased out, we lost important competences. But not only that, it also led to an extreme sub-optimisation of state resources. When the Swedish Armed Forces no longer supplied regular support with their helicopters to the police and for the rescue of the sea, various authorities started to procure helicopters for themselves. The Swedish Maritime Administration purchased helicopters for SEK 800 million, and now the police have renewed their helicopter fleet for nearly half a billion. When I visited the helicopter flotilla in Kallax after Västmanland's fire, I was told that the flight drivers there every summer know that they have to go out and extinguish forest fires in different parts of the country. However, since they must not scale up civil society support activities, they must not even make holiday plans that take up this. Of course we cannot do that, Mr President. A little over two years ago, the then Defence Committee stated in total political agreement that we need to review the terms and conditions that apply to the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society. Now the Alliance is prepared to pursue this by making the government aware of the need for a review of the so-called aid regulation. Unfortunately, however, and something inexplicable, we have not managed to bring together a majority of the committee behind this proposal. With this, I would like to call for additional cases to reservation 3.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-489	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the county boards' emergency preparedness work is a welcome report. It is a report that describes what we have felt, and for which we are now getting the facts, namely that the emergency preparedness largely works well but that it can get better. The report addresses both what can be more effective and what shortcomings have been seen in the context of the review. We have a history since before with a strong total defense. It is a total defense that includes most things, from war placements for large parts of the population to large emergency stocks. It is a story which is largely out of date today, but which in some respects would have to be revived. It is a matter for all of us not to be afraid but to be prepared if natural disasters, other accidents or crises happen to us. We know that a crisis is coming. Crisises occur and affect us at regular intervals. The only question is what happens next time. Is it a severe storm or perhaps a massive spread of multi-resistant bacteria? Last night the news on television spoke of multi-resistant bacteria that cause the death of as many as 60 000 children in India every year. We live in a global world. Today, threats and crises are not only local, but the world's crises are also ours. We don't know what's gonna be the next crisis. That's the problem. Both large fires, such as the fire in Västmanland, and the deteriorating security situation in our part of the world are challenges for our emergency preparedness. What we clearly know is that emergency preparedness needs to be strengthened. It is an important signal that the Swedish National Audit Office points to the need to improve the county boards' work on crisis preparedness. They have had great freedom to set up work, but they have not lived up to it enough and have not lived up to what laws and regulations prescribe. What has been aggravating is that MSB, which largely distributes the funds, has allocated the funds in project form rather than as fixed grants. It has been difficult to recruit and retain the skills of their staff. There is also a need to improve supervision and support for municipalities' work on emergency preparedness. It is probably so important because it is precisely the municipalities that are responsible for a large part of the work in the event of a crisis. Mr President, I would like to In a crisis one should not be afraid; one should be prepared. And you need to take the criticism seriously. There's been too little practice. We are at a stage in which society's emergency preparedness will be strengthened, as pointed out in the Defence Committee. As pointed out in the report, the government needs to clearly show where the level of ambition should be. Politics also has an important role to play here. From a political point of view, we have not been sufficiently clear about the level of emergency preparedness in our country. We have also not set our foot on what demands we should make on the individual. What do we expect of individual citizens? Do citizens know what is expected of them? And what is our own responsibility as individual citizens? In the event of a crisis, or if we were to end up in a war situation, the vast majority of the population would actually have to take a large part of the responsibility itself. Society's resources are likely to be largely devoted to helping those who cannot help themselves. In the exercise of the alliance parties, we highlight the great challenge of responsibility for society's crisis preparedness and who actually has it. It is not only resources that are crucial, but how best to coordinate and use resources. Cooperation between the civilian and the military side needs to be improved. In the event of a crisis, it is absolutely necessary. That was something we also saw in the evaluation of Salabranden. You need better practice and plan what collaboration should look like to minimize uncertainties in a crisis. MSB has here had a key role, and there is a lot to improve. There are also no shortcuts to achieving the goals. It is only by first critically reviewing and then improving that we can move forward. Mr President, I would like to According to our exercise, we believe it is important to work on the basis of increased goal management. It is not always possible to describe how something should be done. It is better to be clear what is to be achieved. MSB should be given the task of reviewing its guidelines as to what they require of the county boards in order to create clearer target management. The objectives should be general and can be broken down at local level by the various county boards. The function of the county administrative boards is so important that we believe that personnel on the various county administrative boards need to be placed in war. In order to increase stability and competence, it is also reasonable that the resources that the various county boards receive for different assignments from MSB do not become project money but extend over a longer period of time and provide better opportunities for planning. With a reinforcement and an improvement in the county boards' emergency preparedness work, there is good hope if you are to reach the goal of not being afraid but prepared. I would like to conclude by calling for the Alliance's reservation 1 to be approved.
i-5SxhcJKwHs3oDuWQ2przfp	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by asking for the approval of reservation 2. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the county boards' emergency preparedness work needs to be improved in many respects in order for them to meet the state's objectives and requirements. You have to look for a long time, I think, to find requirements and goals that are easily decipherable. Government governance gives the county boards a great deal of freedom to interpret and determine what is required to solve the tasks. We see in the Swedish National Audit Office's report that you do very different things. Risk and vulnerability analyses, which are a basis and a prerequisite for getting started with good work, are not coordinated. You do different things, and then you're surprised it doesn't work. We need to make a comprehensive picture in Sweden. It is clear that the analyses differ slightly, for example if you have a nuclear power plant in the county or not, but the basics must be an integrated way of managing risk and vulnerability analyses. Then it needs to be trained on this – you need to practice and correct. When I look at this, I see something fundamental that can be found everywhere in civil life or elsewhere, namely that one forgets the importance of going through the meaning. You hand out a task, and the County Administrative Board answers yes. The task is interpreted, as I just said. The Swedish National Audit Office says so too. Then the County Administrative Board goes there and has the view that a solution is to be found here. However, before getting to that point, it must be clear that the recipient of a task, in this case the county administrative boards and also the MSB, has correctly interpreted the meaning of the task. That step is lacking, in my opinion. There you can become much clearer. The Swedish National Audit Office also says that there is no link between identified threats, risks and vulnerabilities and the measures that the County Administrative Board needs to take. In my view and in the opinion of the Swedish democrats, when you read the county boards' reports, you can see that they have interpreted the meaning differently. So what's the role of MSB? We cannot forget MSB even if we now look at the county boards. Yes, as a speaker has just said, the essential development project for which the money is spent is the development project. You can apply for grants from MSB in this section, but you interpret essentially yourself what to do for the money. As has already been said, Mr President, project grants have for several years been a larger source of funding than administrative appropriations in terms of the direct costs of the county boards' emergency preparedness work. Now MSB has since some year made some changes and written new conditions for this. Is it then that the Swedish National Audit Office thinks it seems good? No, it is estimated that the problems remain. That's really serious. The Swedish National Audit Board therefore considers that the problems will remain. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, development work will continue to be a priority. It's a priority, rather than solving the tasks assigned to it, which you interpret differently. We believe, Mr President, that in times of crisis and war – and even in peacetime things can happen – it is crucial to be able to deploy resources quickly. This calls for a clear organisation and accountability. It's missing today. MSB's role is to cooperate. The county administrative boards say that they will get municipalities to cooperate, but where is the word It's here and there. There must be an authority that coordinates the activities. To interact is to talk to each other and then go in each other's direction. You have worked together, but you are not going to follow what it or it says, Mr President. Coordination is done with officers. You interact by talking a lot to each other. Then decisions are taken, and that is to follow those decisions. That is the difference between coordination and cooperation. Both things are needed, but some authority needs to coordinate. That is why we in the Swedish Democrats believe that we should have a civil defence authority with the task of coordinating. It would be possible to discuss whether MSB cannot be used, i.e. clarify the role of the authority and give it a coordinating role. It's possible. That could be discussed. We could probably also find points of collaboration in or share the views of the Alliance, but it somehow requires us to be invited to a dialogue where the questions are asked: What do you think? Can we do this? You can think about that. We don't mind if these are good ideas, but we would like to be part of the discussion with you. Now we are involved in much more in the discussion with the Social Democrats. We also think, Mr President, that the work of county administrative boards should be looked at in order to include officers in this paragraph. Within the framework of total defence, this should be reviewed. We are now a little low, as we are waiting – according to the Minister for Defence, there is to be a proposal on this in June, Mr President. We got that idea. Hopefully, it contains everything that our excellent Minister for Defence says. That debate will be interesting and, above all, it will be interesting to see whether there is an action plan in this worthy of the name. I think so. I think it's gonna be okay. At least that's the basic attitude we have. We move on to a total defense, and we will move on to duty. We will move to some form of civil duty, and we will then also be able to place war in positions within municipalities and county councils. We will also be able to place war on county boards. Then there is a role for officers– it may be a position that is fixed, and it may also be associations of service, as one had previously. Then we have a natural connection and understanding of the Swedish Armed Forces' needs to a greater extent than if we do not. That was the assessment they made then, and I think it was the right one. As far as the economy is concerned, it eventually lands in a demand. MSB and the county administrative boards must also have resources in the form of money to solve their tasks – as they interpret themselves. But we get the meanings and common interpretations straight, we set goals, and then we allocate resources. As it has been now, there will be a bag of money, and then you will have to adapt the objectives to the resources. Then it becomes an impossible situation to then make demands that it and it should be completed. The objectives must therefore be followed by resources. This is a major change I hope we can read in the forthcoming budget this autumn. We look forward to the report from the Secretary of Defense in June.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-522	Mr President, I would like to It was an interesting piece of information that we received, namely that the Swedish Democrats are now reasoning with the Social Democrats. It would be very exciting to hear whether it is just a matter of emergency preparedness or whether it is also covered by other parts of Policy Area 6. Mr President, I would like to Roger Richtoff has a past as a professional officer in what one might call the old defense – what existed while the Cold War was still going on. I believe that Roger Richtoff is well aware of the advantages that the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society had, not only in maintaining military competence in different disciplines, but also how cost rational it was for the state that there was cooperation between military and civil authorities. I also believe that Roger Richtoff realises that military and civilian cooperation and support seemed to be incite to the public. The Swedish Armed Forces were appreciated for their efforts on the civilian level. Now Roger Richtoff heard me tell you that, because of the ban on dimensioning the Swedish Armed Forces' activities against support for civil society, they cannot even make holiday plans on the helicopter flotilla because it would be to scale after civil society – and this notwithstanding knowing that every summer you have to go out with military helicopters and contribute, among other things, to forest fire extinguishing. Does Roger Richtoff think this is a reasonable order? If he thinks so, why have the Swedish Democrats changed their minds since the Defence Committee almost two years ago?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-525	Mr President, I would like to No, it doesn't make sense. It is not at all reasonable, nor is it reasonable that you have led the dismantling of the Swedish defence, Allan Widman. So you have not been able to do anything to raise the Swedish defence during the eight years you were in government. For eight years you sat, and now you have the nerve to talk to me about the details of this. Not only have you destroyed the Swedish defence and civil defence; you have done nothing about this, even if it started earlier. After all you've destroyed--even the systems have crashed-- you're trying to give the impression that you're now defence friends and have changed your mind. You have joined the line of the Swedish Democrats for a long time. Now you suddenly want a strong Swedish defence. As far as we're working with S, we're talking to them. Why do we do that? Because we talk to them about ideas they have that we think are good ideas. Try talking to each other sometime! Invite and ask: What do you think? What do you think? It is not that we have deeper cooperation with the Social Democrats on these issues. However, now that we have the same view and we have a defence minister worthy of the name, we are in favour, and I think we are getting a very positive response there on defence issues.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-530	Mr President, I would like to Now Roger Richtoff extended the debate somewhat to our entire defence in different dimensions for a long time and its development. I would like to remind Roger Richtoff that the civil defence obligation disappeared in 2004 under a government other than the alliance government. In the years of the Alliance, on the other hand, in 2006– 2014, not a single unit or flotilla was laid down in this country. And I think it was important at the moment that we did not break the existing military resource-creation infrastructure. I also told you, Mr President, about the near-death experience that our helicopter weapon had about ten years ago with major accidents, major delays and a basically completely discontinued support for civil society. In that situation, the Alliance government went in and traded 16 Black Hawk helicopters from the United States in Foreign Military Sales. From the time decisions were taken until these helicopters flew on behalf of Sweden in Afghanistan, it took no more than 24 months. It was an essential boost to our ability on this point. Now I will not stand here and explain away the weaknesses that existed in the Alliance's defence and security policy, because they certainly existed as well. And some tried to make their voice heard for another order but with less success. My question to Roger Richtoff is whether he realises that we need support for civil society from the Armed Forces. If so, why is Roger Richtoff not prepared to work for this when he now has the opportunity here in Parliament's defence committee?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-535	Mr President, I would like to Just read what we write. We've been exercising on this for a long time. Of course, we are giving very strong support for the military in the framework of total defence to support the civilian and vice versa. Without strong civil defence, the Armed Forces will not survive either. We have no other opinion on this. We are working very hard to get this done and we are spending a lot of money to get to that point, so I wonder if you are going a little wrong in the idea that we would not support the civil defence interaction between the military and the civilian. We really are in favour of that.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-537	Mr President, I would like to We are now examining a report from the Swedish National Audit Office on the county boards' emergency preparedness work. Crisis preparedness is defined as the ability to prevent, resist and manage crisis situations through training, training and other measures, as well as through the organisation and structures created before, during and after a crisis. This is an extremely important area for national work. These are fundamental questions about how we cooperate and work widely and in depth at several levels and in different organisations around the country. The ability to prevent and respond to crises is being tested in a sharp way. It is through the interaction between local, regional and central actors that we really get a receipt and proof of where we stand and also if we succeed. This is a complex work, and the County Administrative Board has many actors to work with and many analyses that need to be done continuously. In a crisis, the county boards will support all cooperating authorities and organisations, including socially important companies, and coordinate efforts. If preparedness is raised or war breaks out, the county administrative boards will lead and coordinate all civilian activities in the county and coordinate the work with military activities. It can also be about taking over municipal responsibility in the event of major crises. Sweden faces major challenges in the area of crisis preparedness. It is not just about climate-related events such as floods, fires, storms andslides; it is also about being able to manage large migratory flows, terrorism and the threats that exist in hybrid warfare, propaganda and cyber-attacks. It is about being able to monitor and analyse various events and events continuously around the country. It also means having a daily alert. As cooperation develops with municipalities and other actors, it provides better conditions for managing crises. The analysis that has now been carried out shows very large areas of development, areas that we need to deal with to ensure that it works in the day-to-day. Criterion must be good, and we must remedy the shortcomings. There is a great potential for improvement and a need to clarify which resources should be the basis for daily work in the long term. We have heard about project funds that are larger now that are to be applied for in order to have day-to-day operations financed rather than through administrative appropriations. We have also heard in the past about government project funds that have been unused. The money available has not been sought, which in turn reduces the amount of preparatory emergency preparedness work. The main means of increasing ability are training, training and developed collaboration. There is much to be done here to meet the objectives that we have decided on here in Parliament. There is also a great deal of room for freedom to interpret and decide how to solve the tasks in the country's county boards. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this can involve challenges and risks. It is difficult to assess whether the county boards' emergency preparedness work functions as intended and whether there is a balance between tasks and resources. I have been into it before, but I would like to stress once again that it is important that we follow up so that there are long-term and predictable planning conditions on the financial side, because it increases the ability to recruit skilled workers to the various positions but also to dimension the activities of each county administrative board. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that problems can persist even after MSB decided on new conditions for development projects for 2015. It is also important that we continue to monitor the way things work out in practice. There are several examples of the actual use of risk and vulnerability analysis, the breadth of analyses rather than depth, and the lack of links between identified threats, risks, vulnerabilities and the measures planned by the county administrative boards. There is also no uniform risk and vulnerability analysis around the country, which makes it difficult to know what the overall picture looks like in the nation as a whole and also to be able to take the right action on time and provide planning conditions. Almost all county boards estimate that they have carried out follow-up, but the quality of follow-up varies and in some cases has been poor. Collaboration between county boards and municipalities is an extremely important field that must work in the daily life. There is a need for support for the work of municipalities but also for monitoring the work of municipalities. This collaboration is one of the keys to Sweden being able to have the best possible emergency preparedness. We must also involve the municipalities as much as possible in the major emergency preparedness plans. Only half of the county administrative boards say that they have carried out trainings and exercises to the extent that they believe the assignment requires. Operational responsibility needs to be exercised to a greater extent. Here is a serious aspect that the Swedish National Audit Office notes when considering that the exercise activities are inadequate. At a time when crises are coming and going and the pressure on public administration is increasing, we note that major collaboration exercises have been cancelled over the past six months with reference to ongoing work. This can in itself constitute a major risk in our national risk and vulnerability work. In some cases, we do not have the opportunity to deal with several crises at the same time. We need to build robustness and have a broad thinking that covers how to handle different scenarios. The fact that civil defence has been a priority for several years is a fact. But now we are faced with a new total defence planning, and then it is our task and responsibility to ensure that there will be resources that both manage civilian crisis preparedness and will provide the right conditions for one to get as good a total defence planning as possible across the country. We will return to many discussions on ambitions, clearer requirements, boundaries and objectives. Our collective commitment and the overall leadership of these issues will guide what will happen in practice. Mr President, I would like to Once again, we are facing major current challenges, but the government notes that there is limited scope for development work in the coming years. We believe that the issue of the county boards' emergency preparedness should be included in the Defence Committee's next assignment. It needs to be involved in order to have more coherence and clarity. When there are higher demands on emergency preparedness, society must become better at coordinating the resources available, both civil and military. Civil-military relations in Sweden need to be developed so that the use of resources is as optimal as possible. The way in which civil-military cooperation works in practice is proving to be in a strong position. We have to work to avoid sharp situations. We need to practice, prevent and think strategically and in the long term – also to cope with the day-to-day big and small threats. It is important to update the knowledge of each other's resources. Tasks, missions and functions between different staffs need to be synchronised. Integrated planning needs to be implemented to ensure that defence resources can be deployed quickly in the event of a civilian crisis. Mr President, I would like to I support the Alliance's reservation No. 3.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-562	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the county boards' emergency preparedness work. I support reservations 1 and 3, which are supported by the Christian Democrats. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the county boards' emergency preparedness is an important and valuable review. It concerns part of our crisis preparedness, which is important in several ways and concerns both preparatory work and coordination, as well as management and follow-up. At the large forest fire in Västmanland in 2014, deficiencies were revealed on all these points. The shortcomings need to be addressed in order for Sweden to be better equipped for future crises. A football team or a brass orchestra that doesn't practice regularly won't be good. In the same way, and much more importantly in order to cope with crises such as fires, we need to train more on emergency preparedness. The report shows that this is often an exception. Therefore, we have a reservation that MSB will be tasked with reviewing the guidelines for the county boards' emergency preparedness regarding training and preparedness requirements in order to create clearer target management. Another important element highlighted is the importance of financing and the possibility of creating long-term sustainable crisis work. Today, a large part of the funding is made available on a project basis. This, of course, makes it difficult to provide long-term staff and to develop the work over a longer period of time. The government points out that it intends to change that. However, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, in 2007 there was a transfer of 14.7 million from the emergency preparedness proposal to the county administrative grant. This transfer did not have the intended effect but was used instead for other activities. The Alliance therefore believes that it is necessary to ensure that the increased funding for the county boards' emergency preparedness goes to the intended activities. Let me also mention something about civil-military cooperation. As there are higher demands on emergency preparedness, society needs to be better at coordinating the resources available, both civil and military. Civil-military relations in Sweden have long been characterized by a touch anxiety that limits the use of resources in a negative way. It is now time to take steps to get away from the historically bound and today not nearly as relevant restrictions. Civil-military cooperation has not always worked when put to the test. One example is the fire in Västmanland, which I mentioned earlier. There are other examples as well. The Maritime Administration could have taken over Helicopter 10 Super Puma for a symbolic sum. However, even though it was known that there was an investigation in progress that suggested better coordination, it hastened out and bought helicopters for 800 million, and far more will cost in service. The Swedish Maritime Administration said it would be cheaper, but it turned out to be just the opposite. The costs have rushed off with the new helicopter system, and it is approaching SEK 100 million more a year than a few years ago. There is also reason to question whether the Swedish Maritime Administration is using its helicopters effectively. In 2014, for example, the Umeå base had only 16 alarms when lifting from the base. There was six months between every sharp position. This is an example of the need for better coordination, which is precisely what we propose in our reservation.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-574	Mr President, I would like to First, a brief comment on the alleged cooperation between the Swedish Democrats and the government: Such cooperation does not exist. The government's defence policy is based on the five party settlement decided by this House last spring. Mr President, I would like to An important element of this settlement and this directional decision is the readmission of total defence planning, i.e. coherent civil and military defence planning. Although what we are discussing in the Chamber today specifically concerns the audit by the Swedish National Audit Office of the County Boards of Emergency Preparedness, it may be worth taking with it that civil defence largely builds and builds on the structures of emergency preparedness. Crisis preparedness and civil defence are two closely interlinked concepts. The county administrative boards are geographical area managers and act as a link between the local and national level. They are also the highest civil defence authorities. In short, county administrative boards are key actors in the area of emergency preparedness. The Swedish National Audit Office's letter concerns several different areas. These include exercise activities, financing and the application of risk and vulnerability analyses. In several of the areas that the Swedish National Audit Office has investigated, the Government has implemented changes aimed at improving the conditions for emergency preparedness work and partly responding to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. In the case of project funding from the so-called 2:4 grant, which finances specific efforts to develop crisis preparedness regionally and locally, the government has taken measures to provide more long-term work and through co-financing stimulate the county boards' own investments in crisis preparedness and civil defence. The emergency preparedness area is not unique in being heavily dependent on temporary funds, as the Swedish National Audit Office writes a lot about, but almost half of the administrative costs of the county administrative boards are financed in such a way today. But this development is not sustainable. It is not for the benefit of the activities. The government's intention is also to continue its efforts to streamline the funding of county boards. Another area that the Swedish National Audit Office draws attention to is the application of risk and vulnerability analyses, RSA. The meaning of the RSAs, of course, is not that they should be produced for the sake of production and that they should become shelf heaters, but that they should serve as a basis for, for example, prioritising exercise activities and contributing to the national risk images. The Government has therefore changed the requirements for county boards' financial statements from each year to every other year, which has been a request from many county boards, and has clarified that this should be a summary report. Also worth mentioning – as previous speakers have mentioned – is Västmanlandsbranden and the report submitted by MSB, where some conclusions coincide with the Swedish National Audit Office's observations, such as how crisis preparedness works on an overall level, as well as the need to further develop the exercise activities. Some of the MSB's proposals, if they become reality, would have bearing on the activities of the county administrative boards. In this context, it may be worth mentioning the ongoing work on developing a common situation picture for the further work on total defence planning where the county boards play an important role. All in all, Mr President, there is a great deal of activity in the crisis preparedness area in Sweden today. Since it took office, the Government has taken a number of measures, while at the same time we have received new and important knowledge through new investigations and the Swedish National Audit Office's review. At the same time as we raise our ambitions through the work on coherent total defence planning, it is important that we nurture and develop the capabilities that already exist within the crisis preparedness system. All the elements must work in order for the whole to be good.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-586	Mr President, I would like to Kalle Olsson says in the speaker's chair that there have been no talks with any parties outside the so-called defence group and that there is no reasoning either. Since this is a fairly important issue, given that the government calls itself a cooperation government, I would like to ask: the tasks that Roger Richtoff has presented in a previous shift in line are incorrect? So to the second question. In the Defence Committee – where Kalle Olsson unfortunately was not allowed to represent the Social Democrats, but it was other representatives of that party – we took as an important issue the Swedish Armed Forces' support for civil society. It is cost rational and populous, and it enhances the competence of the Armed Forces. We all agreed that we need to have a review of the Support Regulation, the legal instrument governing the Swedish Armed Forces' assistance to civil society.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-589	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Allan Widman, for the question! I think I was quite clear in my speech: no such cooperation exists. If other parties appreciate our Minister of Defence and if he goes home in broad layers, that is a good thing. But there are no collaborations. So to the second question. I'd like to remind you a little bit about where we're from. We come from a situation where civil defence and total defence planning have been down for a long time. We have now begun that work. The Swedish Armed Forces and MSB are currently at their best working together to develop a common situation picture. That's good. That is a step in the right direction. It is a way to get these two pages together and present a holistic view that will come this summer. I don't think we should run ahead of that analysis but start at that end, let that work land and then move on.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-593	Mr President, I would like to Now the government wants to stand out for its initiatives in terms of total defence planning. It is my view, Mr President, that with the previous government, work was already under way to review both civil and military defence and their coordination. It is quite clear that there is little urgency on the part of the government when one looks at the ambitions that exist in terms of total defence. Mr President, we visited MSB a few weeks ago and found out that the next total defence exercise – the first one we have had since the 90s – is scheduled to take place in 2024. It's eight years from now. I believe, Mr President, that the ambitions must be a little greater on the part of the government. Finally, I do not think that Roger Richtoff meant that there was any proper cooperation, but he said that there was a discussion and a discussion with the majority in committee. It could be interesting if Kalle Olsson could take us out of any delusions about this in his final reply.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-596	Mr President, I would like to Just as I cheer and try to be nice with Allan Widman as well as the other members of the Defence Committee, I make no distinction between party names in those parts. But there is also the line – point. The previous government said Allan Widman reviewed civil and total defence planning. That's right, you looked it over. But it didn't happen much more. Once again, Mr President, we can remind ourselves that it is not so many years ago that we heard bourgeois politicians in a rather flagrant way waving away the increasingly worrying development of the surrounding world in Sweden. Now we have a government that not only reviews but actually takes the initiative, puts out decisions and points to the authorities: now is the time to start working. That is a clear new direction, I would say. Allan Widman says we're in no hurry. I spoke to civil defense officials now, and they thought it was a bit stressful. They have a lot of work to do in a fairly short time when it comes to developing common situation images. We are in a hurry to do this. We want to get this in place. We want to get work started and see results.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-600	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on Allan Widman's discussions and statements on the working environment in the Committee on Defence. For us Swedish democrats, the most important thing is that we have a coherent defence policy of our own, which we have. Then it happens from time to time that we vote in favour of both red-green and blue motions when we think they are good. But it never happens that the other blocks vote in favour of our motions. We are open to negotiations to discuss various motions and proposals for the future, in order to find out that good policy. We're open, but you're closed. The Armed Forces must not be dimensioned to support civil society. It has certain consequences. For example, our Hercules have no water buckets to extinguish forest fires. It is a pity that they do not have it, but the Swedish Armed Forces have no use of forest fire extinguishing capabilities. The proposal we are considering is to have a specific allocation in the field of expenditure for civilian purposes so that you can buy water buckets for Hercule and other things that are good for society if it exists. We are thinking about our Chamber and you are thinking about your Chamber. We can think together and negotiate on the proposals, but then you will have to be open to it. We're open to it. I now come to my actual speech. I request the approval of reservation 2. The Swedish National Audit Office has observed and criticised the fact that the county boards are investing uneven resources in their capacity for crisis preparedness. It may have several reasons. Crisis preparedness and civil defence are similar areas of activity. When civil defence was more or less decommissioned, there was less overall funding for these similar activities. Since operations usually require a critical mass, a certain amount, to be effective, crisis preparedness at county boards has also suffered. It is easy to understand but needs to be addressed. The Swedish National Audit has revealed a problem, namely that the emergency preparedness work often rests on project grants rather than on administrative appropriations. This makes the emergency preparedness work less continuous. Crisis preparedness work needs to be continuous in order to give us the security it is intended to provide. Therefore, we propose that the Government review the funding structure to create more even conditions for the county boards' emergency preparedness work. We also suggest that the overall picture of municipalities' work under the Accident Protection Act should be clearer and more useful for analysis. That is what we can do immediately. It is a good thing that in the defence decision last year we decided to reclaim civil defence. Civil defence is the activity that enables society to deal with situations in which preparedness is increased. Once we have regained civilian defence, we will once again have a total defence with the military defence. When functions are established nationally, regionally and locally for civil defence, emergency preparedness functions will also be indirectly promoted. Of course, for this to become a reality, it needs to be financed. Civil defence should cost between SEK 3 billion and SEK 6 billion per year in the state budget. It is the responsibility of the parties to allocate these funds. It must not be as in military defence: an upgrade without substantially increased appropriations. Both military and civil defence should be focused and planned to avoid strong fluctuations in overall capacity and strong turns in direction. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in Sweden in recent decades. An earlier high capacity has been decommissioned almost completely, and now we have decided to try to quickly regain defence capabilities. The focus has turned back and forth. From invasion defense to intervention defense and now back to invasion defense. We should do like the Poles and introduce a security policy integrator into the Constitution. By regulating by law a minimum level of military and civil defence through the cost-to-bnp parameter, fluctuations would decrease significantly over time. My proposal is at least 2% for military defence and at least 0.3% for civil defence. In terms of planning for emergency preparedness and civil defence, Sweden had a very strong and well thought-out system as well as infrastructure. I recently heard that during a smoke diver training in a mountain in Västra Götaland, the smoke divers found a door inside the mountain and inside the door a forgotten mortar factory. Much is forgotten, but some knowledge remains that we can acquire by looking at the old system of civil defence. It is important to build a system where leadership is clear. In the military defense, we have commanders who can handle fast situations and take their heads out as they go. The same must apply to civil defence. Civilian commanders must have decision-making rights and be trained in this decision-making environment. There is a tame discussion that says that if we work together, the leadership will resolve itself by itself between the authorities. This is not the case, and it showed if nothing else the big fire in Västmanland in 2014. As a backbone of our readmission of civil defence, we should establish a civil defence authority. Our society is regularly exposed to crises such as epidemics, terrorism, natural disasters and disturbances in technical infrastructure. In addition, crises may arise that are completely new to us. Exercises are important not to be completely hands-on. Emergency preparedness as well as civil defence must be exercised. This applies not least to small municipalities. In small municipalities, the department for preparedness becomes small and therefore more sensitive. The minimum level of preparedness is the individual. Many municipalities have already begun to draw the public's attention to the fact that everyone should be prepared to make it on their own for 72 hours before civil defence has been able to mobilise. We are out early on this because civil defence is not yet ready. I usually get asked if I can handle 72 hours myself, and I have a weak point because I lack a transistor radio for battery operation. That's my lesson in the matter. Let us address these important security issues together.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-619	Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely sure that the pendulum has been swinging back and forth over the last few decades in terms of our country's defence expenditure and what ambitions we have had with our defence. In reality, there has been a single long downward movement from the beginning of the 70s in economic terms when we were at 3 1⁄2 per cent of the bnp to what the new government will achieve within a year, namely that Sweden falls below 1 per cent of bnp in defence grants. I believe that Mikael Jansson's assessment is correct. In the long term, Sweden's defence funding must amount to at least 2% of GDP. On the other hand, Mr President, we Liberals do not believe that this is something that needs to be consolidated either by ordinary law or by constitution, but it must be up to politicians and their ability to be responsible for ensuring that such a continuous economy is maintained in defence. Mikael Jansson was in the defence committee that decided in total agreement to propose a review of the so-called support regulation. He is now also talking in the speaker's seat about ideas about providing Hercule with water cans for forest fire extinguishing. Against this background, Mr President, it is easily incomprehensible why the Swedish Democrats do not support the request for the legal regulation which is the tool to be able to do these things when it clearly completely coincides with the policy of the Swedish Democrats themselves. I listened carefully to what Mikael Jansson said about the dialogue with the Social Democrats in committee. Is it correct to understand that Mikael Jansson is denying the tasks which Roger Richtoff gave in this House a moment ago?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-624	Mr President, I would like to The environment in the Committee on Defence is good. Everybody's talking to everyone. But talking and negotiating are two different things. We are open to negotiating with all parties if they have made good proposals. But the other parties are not open to it. So there is no negotiation. But we all talk a lot. As far as various proposals are concerned, we are on the same line, namely that one should somehow open up for parts of the Armed Forces to be dimensioned in order to help society in a crisis. But our proposals and your proposals, Allan Widman, are not always exactly the same. We will give priority to our proposal on support for society in the event of a crisis. The reduction in funding is true. That it was the Social Democrats who laid down almost all the units is also true. But the eight years of the Alliance were also devastating for the defense as the grant continued to decline. It is regrettable that this year too, although it may most affect international peace operations.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-627	Mr President, I would like to According to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, next year Sweden will come down to 0.98 per cent of GDP in defence grants. In most of the alliance years, the government's defence appropriations were indeed modest, but the Social Democrats' defence appropriations were even more modest. At its worst, 2 billion less was invested than the government at the time. Mr President, I would like to I cannot understand Mikael Jansson's reply in any other way than the fact that the information provided earlier was not correct. The Liberals negotiate and cooperate within the Alliance, with the parties with which we are preparing to take over power by 2018. Who you're negotiating with is one thing. It is difficult to understand, however, that when proposals were put forward in this House that would enable the realisation of Mikael Jansson's visions, to equip both helicopters and C‐ 130 for forest fire extinguishing, it nevertheless rejects – apparently only because it feels that there have not been enough negotiations. Then politics is in trouble, Mr President.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-631	Mr President, I would like to The reality is that all parties are putting forward good proposals for and from, including in defence policy. And you never vote for our proposals, Allan Widman. You did not even vote for our proposal for a new recruitment office for the Swedish Armed Forces in Luleå. Everybody wants that up there. You in the party were also for that when we visited Luleå. But just because it was we who tabled the proposal, the question died. So it is rather the way that you cannot vote in favour of our proposals when they are good. We are on the same track when it comes to opening up for increased opportunities for the Swedish Armed Forces to spend resources on support for society in a crisis. Of course, these resources must be taken from a civil perspective. We're on the same line. But we felt that your exercise was not by far the best.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-634	Mr President, I would like to I know Allan Widman's rhetoric. He gets stuck in details and doesn't have any big perspectives. You think it's smart, Allan Widman. When you talk about Putin and other things, you get stuck in the details. But I think you need to expand this and try to think a little differently. When we talk to different parties, we ask them – now listen carefully – what they think, why they think so and how they have come to that position. Try it sometime, Allan Widman! You've never ever asked any of us such a question, as far as I know. You seem completely uninterested. But if one word could be misunderstood, you are there when it comes to the small details. Widen your eyes! I want to be clear now. We are not cooperating with the Social Democrats. We ask them: What do you think? We'll get answers. Let's talk about why they think that way. We're talking about it, to form an idea of what the Secretary of Defense thinks. And we think he's totally superior to what you've accomplished for eight years in that post.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-639	Mr President, I would like to Roger Richtoff may think that which parties in parliament cooperate, negotiate and reason with each other is a detail. But for almost a year there has been a defence settlement between five of the eight parties in the Riksdag. It is clear that tasks which suggest that negotiations are taking place outside that group are nothing less than political dynamite. I wouldn't call it details in this context. I now understand, not least from what Mikael Jansson said, that there are no talks, that there is no discussion and that there is no cooperation with the red-green majority.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-641	Mr President, I would like to Congratulations, Allan Widman! That's correct.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-642	Mr President, I would like to Roger Richtoff says that neither Allan Widman nor any alliance party has ever asked: how did you come to this, how did you reason and how do you think? It may be interesting to know that I have never received such a question from representatives of the Swedish Democrats either.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-643	Mr President, I would like to I'm done talking.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-644	Mr President, I would like to Last year, eight people, all over the world, died in shark attacks – eight people. Yet the fear of sharks is evident in us humans. If we're on vacation in parts of the world where there's shark, that's something we're thinking about. I remember the summer when a friend and I got hold of the film Shark and watched it. That summer it was really scary to go swimming in a normal, cloudy Swedish lake. My daughter will give a speech at school this week – it is a task in Swedish – about road safety. She made the link between the number of deaths in Swedish traffic and how many people lose their lives every year because of shark attacks. It was such a good comparison that I chose to borrow it. Last year, 260 people lost their lives in Swedish traffic. Too many people don't come home to their loved ones. But this means that Sweden is one of the world's safest countries in terms of road safety. This also means that we have almost halved the number of fatalities in traffic since 2007. But there were still 260 people killed in traffic last year. At the same time, only eight people worldwide died of shark attacks. Most of us fear shark attacks more than a drive to work in the morning or a bicycle ride to the store in the afternoon. Fear is never rational. But it's affecting our behavior. The fact that we people do not see the risks in traffic means that we often behave in an unacceptable way as soon as we sit behind the wheel of a car. If we think that someone is wrong in traffic, we can simply catch up, point fingers, scream, honk and behave in a way that is totally unacceptable in other parts of civilised societies. And yet that's what we do. We then expose fellow passengers and fellow road users to risks. Our behavior as people in traffic will be an important piece of the puzzle in it continuing the work of reaching the zero vision. It is important to actually understand the risks and the likelihood of being killed and injured in traffic. The fear we feel about shark attacks should be very much greater when we are in traffic environments. We are building off traffic risks through central railings, two-plus-one roads, forgiving roadsides, level-specific railway crossings, reduced speed outside schools and retirement homes and much more. Zero vision is a vision of a future in which people are not killed or harmed for life in road traffic. The perfect man does not exist. The Zerovision also accepts accidents that occur as a result of human error and deficiency, but not that people should die or be seriously injured as a result of such accidents. There is a broad political commitment to the zero vision, and that is a good thing. This ensures that the work to reduce the number of people killed and seriously injured in traffic continues, regardless of the color of the government. Mr President, I would like to The new government has clearly declared that it intends to continue working on the zero vision, and we think that is very good. But against this background, I actually find it difficult to understand why the government chooses to cut annually by SEK 500 million on road maintenance in Sweden. Then there will be less money for what will help reduce the risks. There will be less money for wildlife fences, for example. This is the wrong way. This is where the government is wrong, Mr President. The Moderates and the Alliance want to move forward and commission the Swedish Transport Administration to come back with a strategy to make roads more safe for all modes of transport in future infrastructure investments. Centrally separated lanes save a great many lives for motorists while motorcyclists are exposed to new risks that they were not previously exposed to. But there is something to be done about this. It is also possible to make central railings safe for motorcyclists. I'm also going to talk a little bit about reservation 10 dealing with illegal traffic schools. On Monday, a major raid was made against suspected illegal traffic school operations in Värmland. It is an ongoing preliminary investigation and, against that background, there is not much more to say in the individual case than has been available via public media. During the day I have contacted various people at the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency to get a better picture of how it looks. Mr President, I would like to Those who work with these issues are very clear that it is a large and widespread problem in all of Sweden with illegal traffic schools. It is a crime that is resource-intensive to investigate and difficult to prove. Those engaged in this illegal activity lack training and authorisation. This puts road safety first and foremost at risk. The illegal traffic schools pay no taxes, and it undermines the financing of our common welfare, of schools and health care. The legal transport schools where you have the right training, traffic permits and pay taxes lose customers and thus also revenues. In the end, legal activities will be put at risk if we do not succeed in curbing illegal activities. In addition, those at the Ecocrime Agency with whom I have been talking during the day feel that there are also links to trafficking in human beings and other matters that need to be addressed. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates urge that the Riksdag should commission the Government to take a strong stance against the black illegal traffic schools. The Alliance government imposed limitations on the number of mentoring that a person may hold. We Moderates now believe that there are strong reasons to further limit this and to take a number of new measures to hamper illegal driving school activities. If you do, it will also be easier to investigate and prove illegal activities. It is, of course, one of the problems today that it is so resource-intensive for the police to investigate these crimes that they are scarcely capable of doing so. Steven Spielberg will most likely never make a film about the zero vision. I don't know for sure, but I think there's a big probability that it won't be. Road safety may not be so well suited to the screen as terrifying sharks. Sharks are simply more frightening than cars and bicycles. Nevertheless, eight lives are claimed each year as a result of shark attacks, while well over 1 million people lose their lives in car traffic. It's about how to evaluate risks. Even if you do not record films about zero vision, it is still the hard work of making traffic safe that will save a great many lives in the future, ensuring that families do not lose people you care about very much. Mr President, I would like to I support all reservations involving the Moderates, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-666	Mr President, I would like to Today we're going to talk about road safety. Oh, now my phone's ringing.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-669	What I was going to talk about quite a bit is just the hand-held mobile phone. It disturbs a lot. We are very much in favour of information today. We'll be available 24 hours a day. We use text messages, e-mails and phone calls. In the old days, you had to sit at home and wait for the phone to ring. At best, it could ring in time, otherwise it could not. The hand-held mobile phone is also with us in our cars. As Edward Riedl said, it's about a zero vision. We'll try to get as few people killed in traffic as possible. The law on mobile phones that we have today is toothless. If there is an accident where it can be demonstrated that the mobile phone is part of the cause, then the driver can be felled. Otherwise, there is really no ban. Let me give you an example. When I was working in the harbor, I had a little break, and at that time I enjoyed playing wordfeud. Wordfeud requires a lot of concentration. You're supposed to think, figure out numbers and figure out points. My colleague who had a so-called glide went home earlier. All of a sudden, it was on my phone. I didn't think about it any more, but I sent a new word, and then it started again. Then I thought: Oh, my God, this colleague isn't even at work. So I called him up and asked him, "Where are you?" He was on his way home, and he lives a long way from work. That means this guy was driving a car while playing wordfeud. Today, too, there is a great deal of need for Facebook. They can't help checking. Recently, the government issued a press release to review the law introduced in 2013. It made me very happy, but when I read the press release a little more carefully, the content was completely toothless. I know that most parties in this House are in favour of banning hand-held mobile phones while driving. I've heard the word anti-technology. It is against technology if you want to ban hand-held mobile phones while travelling. In what way would one be anti-technology? I wonder. Today we have bluetooth, which can be connected in the car without having to use the phone if you have to talk. If you use the phone as GPS, you place it on the dashboard or attach it to any device. In today's cars it even says on the mounted GPS that you should not press the GPS while travelling. Having said that, I would like us to clarify the mission to the government that they should introduce a law banning hand-held mobile phones while travelling. If we then get autonomous cars in the future, this is no problem, because then you are not a driver; the car drives itself, and then you can do what you want. I hope that the House will support this. Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd talk to you about speeding tickets and speed cameras. We have raised a motion for greater ownership in speeding. Today, a lot of people ride through the camera, hide and get away from fines. This isn't all right. Today there is no obligation to state who used your car. Of course, it is not possible to have a law that says that you can get rid of your driver's license when someone else has driven your car. However, we believe that a fine should be imposed and that the owner of the vehicle should receive the fine and distribute it to the car lender. A rental company knows very well who drove the car and will thus give this ticket to the hirer. This is also a good investigation– if the government takes it on– where you can make it much more difficult for car goalkeepers. If the fines were imposed on the vehicles, the enforcement officer would be able to seize these vehicles. In this way you could also easily get rid of the goalkeepers. I'm going to go in a little bit on an old exercise from us on road design, especially on road bumps. We propose to introduce harmonised speed barriers and road bumps. What I understand from the committee's text is this work in progress, which makes me very happy. I've talked to a lot of professional drivers who have back problems. They're also destroying the vehicles. They destroy the flow of the drives because of the gassing and braking. There will be no harmonisation at all on the streets. Many bus drivers and taxi drivers who drive in the cities, where there are a lot of speed-absorbing measures, especially road bumps, which can look any way, suffer greatly from this. When we were at a seminar with VTI, they showed us a speed-absorbing measure that I call a falluck. If you drive too fast, the hatch falls down, and it becomes like a speed barrier. If you drive within the speed limit, there will be no action at all. These speed barriers are very expensive, but they are also very effective. They're on the Öresund Bridge. If you've run over one of those at too high a speed, you won't do it again, as far as I understand. I would also like to mention a trip we made to Trollhättan. Among other things Lars Mejern was on this taxi trip. We asked the cab driver how he saw on road bumps. That's a little interesting. According to him, he ran over about 1,000 road bumps a day. I thought it sounded a little bit much. But as I said, there are a lot of road bumps in some cities, and this causes damage both to cars and, of course, to those in front of the vehicles. Road bumps also destroy the environment by jerky driving with gas and brake. You get a lot more wear from brakes, which spread particles. The road bumps also prevent emergency vehicles. With more harmonised speed barriers, it would have been easy to ensure that emergency vehicles, especially ambulances and fire brigades and, of course, police, arrive quickly, safely and efficiently. Even in this case, road bumps are very destructive, especially if you have a sick person who is lying behind and needs to get to a hospital quickly through some kind of ambulance ride or otherwise. We also know that there is quite a lot of violence in society, which means that there are more and more calls. Mr President, I would like to We have quite a few reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 3 and 16.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-690	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with road safety. As a centre party and member of Parliament's Transport Committee, I wanted to highlight a few aspects of this, both in general terms and specifically on telephony. Mr President, I would like to We are fortunate to live in one of the countries in the world that has the least number of road deaths. That is, of course, extremely good and gratifying. But people still die every year in traffic. As recently as seven years ago, in 2009, the majority of Parliament's chambers established that we would have a milestone target for safety development, meaning that the number of fatalities would be halved by 2020 – which will be in four years' time – and that the number of injuries to traffic during the same period would be reduced by 25%. In figures, this meant that by 2020 we would still allow as many as 220 people per year to die in Swedish traffic. In relation to the previously used example of sharks and shark attacks, 220 people appear grotesquely much, although it would be among the lowest figures in the world. It really shows the extent and importance of road safety. What we call zero vision is a solid Swedish invention from the old driving time. It is also a political vision that forms the very basis of the reasoning on road safety. It affects both the design of the policy itself and the way in which we, by government, work with road safety. The zero vision means that we establish the only reasonable thing: that it is unacceptable for road traffic to demand human life. But we have given some time to achieve that vision. Of course, having some other vision, allowing people to die and be injured, would be unreasonable. If we stand by the objective of zero vision, which I believe we are doing, the only conclusion is that we must continue to work tirelessly to get down from today's comparatively low numbers, which are still far too high, to the level. As a country, as I mentioned earlier, we are well placed in comparison with other countries, but road traffic is still harvesting far too many victims in the form of dead and injured. The issue of road safety therefore needs to be given priority, and authorities related to it need to be given clear mandates to work strategically to improve road safety. There are very many of us who are to agree on the road space or the road space: the cars, the heavy and light trucks, public transport in all its forms, cyclists, pedestrians and motorcyclists. It is clear that it is a very complex system that needs to be fully taken into account and from all perspectives in order to make road safety work effective. Mr President, I would like to In this context, there is reason to express a great deal of concern about the priority the government has chosen to make, to reduce Swedish road maintenance by half a billion SEK a year in the spring change budget recently presented in this House. Reducing road maintenance in Sweden by half a billion SEK per year means that road maintenance is reasonably impaired and delayed accordingly. The potholes, the deficiencies and the water plating remain, and it is becoming more difficult for us to live up to the ambition of zero deaths and fewer injuries. As I said, a great deal remains to be done. One example of things that need to be addressed is the cable racks. For example, they are used in middle-separated roads. On the one hand, it is an ingenious invention that prevents frontal collisions between vehicles and thus saves lives. On the other hand, the cable railings, as they are designed in some contexts, pose a very high risk to an motorcyclist. Another example is that while road safety work in general and overall is moving in the right direction, the number of injured persons in bicycle accidents is also increasing. In 2014, two years ago, the number of cyclists killed doubled in traffic. In the overall picture, therefore, most points to the fact that it would be reasonable for the Swedish Transport Administration to be commissioned by the Government to return with a strategy to make roads safer for all modes of transport in future infrastructure investments. One might ask what prevents Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson from giving the Swedish Transport Administration that assignment this autumn, for example in connection with the large and heavy infrastructure bill that the government is reasonably working on right now. Often and in the traffic policy debate, the issue of the use of mobile phones is raised. It just happened here from the speaker's chair where Jimmy Ståhl, in an expression of theatre, illustrated what happens if you use mobile phones in a crazy way. Mr President, I would like to Let us note that the Alliance Government took some strong steps to counter the use of communication equipment precisely in the context of driving that draws attention from driving and thus threatens road safety. The amendment to the Traffic Regulation that we implemented in the autumn of 2013 meant that the police were already able to prosecute some eighty people who were fined for using the mobile phone in a dangerous way during driving the first year the regulation was in force. However, there is no equivalent regulation for the use of the Parliament's pulpit. Using mobile phones in a crazy way is only one of several potential distractions when driving. With regard to the issue of introducing in law a ban specifically aimed at the use of mobile phones without hands-free, there is a risk that we, as legislators, will miss the target. With the very rapid technological development we see, a law specifically aimed at using mobile phones without hands-free could mean that it becomes very unclear what kind of technology is meant. Already today we can use smartphones and other devices in connection with driving. It is a technology that is not only intended for telephone calls but also supports navigation or sometimes pure entertainment. What is fundamentally true when driving is the driver's unlimited responsibility for driving the vehicle in such a way that road safety prevails. The causes of distraction that this does not happen can be very many and very different. One-sidedly directing debate and ideas on legislation towards telephones themselves risks being counterproductive. Mr President, I would like to I naturally agree with the reservations expressed by the Center Party and the Alliance on this report. But for time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation no. 1.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-705	Mr President, I would like to Any person who dies or is seriously injured in traffic is a tragedy. The Christian Democrats believe that efforts to realise the zero vision of the number of people killed and seriously injured in traffic must be stepped up in order to reach the 2020 milestone. Continued determined work is needed both to make the road network, vehicles and technology safer and to increase respect for sobriety rules and sobriety. Mr President, I would like to We note that in 2014, Sweden had an average of 2.8 road deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. The corresponding average for EU countries was 5.2. Our share of road traffic fatalities is among the lowest in the EU. This is, of course, positive and is the result of good prevention. However, much remains to be done. For example, the cable racks, as they are designed today, are a major risk to motorcyclists. We also need to do more to reduce the number of people injured in bicycle accidents. Mr President, I would like to The risk of loss of life in road transport remains significantly higher than in other modes of transport. In 2014, 270 people died in road traffic, and in 2015 260 persons died. According to Trafikverket, 20 percent of the victims have been involved in alcohol-related fatal accidents. On average, every 500 motorists are drunk. The Christian Democrats' starting point is that it should be forbidden to drive alcohol or other drugs in the body on land, on water and in the air. One important aspect for improving road safety is therefore to reduce drunk driving in traffic. Various types of strong and effective measures against drunk driving are necessary to reduce the number of people killed and seriously injured in traffic. The Christian Democrats want technology, such as alcohol locks or similar technology, to be installed in all newly sold cars in Sweden to prevent alcoholic drivers from driving on our roads. We also want to see stricter penalties for drunk driving. Mr President, I would like to Vehicles have become safer and the new vehicles protect the driver and passengers considerably better than older vehicles. But there are still tired, drunk or drug - affected drivers out in traffic who are not caught for lack of controls. Responsibility for safe traffic lies both with those who design the traffic environment, the state and the municipalities, and with the individual user. It is important to continue the prevention of zero tolerance of alcohol and drugs in traffic and to provide the police with sufficient resources for sobriety checks and for action against infringements. Mr President, I would like to Alco-bommers are a good tool to prevent truck, bus and car drivers who come by ferries from other countries in the intoxicated state from entering and operating our roads. We have had experiments with alco-bommers in some ports that have shown that these are very effective and prevent alcoholic drivers from ferries. The alcoboms worked both quickly and efficiently, and the traffic flow in the port was not adversely affected. A clear indication that there is an automatic sobriety check in the port is a significant reduction in the share of onyktra drivers. In order to make road safety work even more effective, we believe that, in connection with the ongoing preparation by the government of the issue of the introduction of permanent alco-boms in most ports, it should be examined whether it is also possible to check driving licences and their validity in these alco-boms. Mr President, I would like to Experimental activities involving alco-bommers in certain ports have shown that alco-bommers are effective. The Christian Democrats believe that alcoboms should be permanently permanent in certain ports without delay. Mr President, I would like to It is more difficult and expensive to take a driving licence with a B licence with today's rules. Both proficiency tests and driving tests must today be approved within two months, otherwise new fees will have to be paid and both tests will be repeated. The system needs to be changed in order to become more flexible as young people often take the exams during summer leave or during Christmas leave. The rules should be amended to extend the validity of an approved proficiency test or driving test for driving licence B to six months. If the first proficiency or driving test is not approved, the period for retesting should be extended to six months. The current rules make it more difficult to take a driving licence with a B licence. An approved proficiency test or a driving test is currently valid for only two months. Both tests must be approved within the period of validity of two months, otherwise new fees will have to be paid and both tests will be repeated. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that the system should be more flexible and take better account of young people's life situation. Young people often plan to take a driving licence when there is a study break, but with the current system young people may have to wait until the summer after to try again to take a driving licence, even though either the theory test or the driving test were passed. Today's possession of a B licence is often a fundamental requirement for even being considered for a wide range of professions in society. Today's rules therefore reduce the chances of many young people finding a job. We Christian Democrats believe that the rules that apply today represent an unreasonable time pressure. It can also be a costly process for the many young people who live on scarce student grants and student loans. The Christian Democrats therefore propose extending the validity of an approved proficiency test as well as driving test for driving licence B to six months. Mr President, I would like to Norwegians who have Norwegian driver's certificates for snowmobiles are allowed to enter Sweden, but Swedes who have Swedish driver's certificates for snowmobiles do not have the right to enter Norway. This limits our snowmobileers' ability to cross the Norwegian border, and they risk fines if they cross the Norwegian border. This limitation makes it more difficult for reindeer owners, rescue workers and recreational skiers to operate on Norwegian soil. We believe that the government should promote cross-border rules for snowmobile driving between Sweden and Norway. Mr President, I would like to More decisive measures are needed to reduce the number of road deaths and injuries. Priority should be given to road safety and clear mandates should be given to the relevant authorities to work strategically to improve road safety and to ensure that roads are safer for all modes of transport. With this, I call for the Christian Democrats' reservations 2 and 9 and for the Alliance's joint reservation No 1.
i-9NNmtfS95nXZ4sscd435Ke	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations. We agree on the zero vision. It's been a success. You could even say that it is an export product for Sweden. Trafikverket has made a sales film – there is a shorter Youtube version and a little longer – which is used in marketing the Swedish model for road safety. It was not their own idea, but they were asked by traffic planners in Manhattan, New York City, where they had successfully worked on the issue of active mobility, i.e. to make room for people to move around, be outdoors and make the city alive and friendly for people but still accessible in different ways. After the great transformation of New York City, it was thought that there might be a moment of security. It was not the main motive for the city's transformation. Trafikverket was asked how they did it. What is the Swedish model? How is the zero vision designed? It is possible to draw some ideological conclusions. When the discussion about zero vision was new, there were some opponents. There were individual movements that ridiculed the concept of zero. Ha, ha, you can never get to zero. What's the point? Should we not make realistic decisions in this House? Those of us who liked the direction were hard on to plan for no one to have to put their lives in Swedish traffic. Zero vision was designed and has been relatively successful. I can't say we're happy. As long as someone dies, we have not reached the goals of the vision at all. But the content of the zero vision is based on a joint commitment, that the Finnish Transport Administration designs roads in a certain way, that the police carry out their duties, that the legislation is sufficient to prosecute crimes along the way and ensure that the right things are punishable, and it is based on the responsibility of individuals. The zero vision is based on the contribution of voluntary organisations and professional transport. It is the Swedish model, that is to say that everyone is helping each other. It would never work if we had said that it is the responsibility of the individual. I remember that there were movements where it was felt that there was too much state organization in the zero vision and that one should rather rely on the individual's responsibility. That was also the reason why the bourgeois parties changed their feet. There was a majority in the House in the past to introduce alcohol locks as a compulsory equipment so that no one could start the engine in newly produced cars if there was alcohol in the breath. There were far-reaching plans for Sweden to become a test country in the EU to test acceptance and technology. Then there were some parties on the other side who said that it must be the individual's responsibility to be sober in traffic. There are still problems there. If we are going to go further, as I believe all parties in the Committee on Transport want, so that fewer people are killed and injured in traffic, then alcohol is a low-hanging fruit. The committee welcomes the fact that the government has begun to work on the issue of alcoboms. We will follow the work. It is not reasonable to leave the ferry with alcohol in the blood at all when driving out on the road. We look forward to carrying out the work to reduce the risk of people being put to life because someone is intoxicated behind the wheel. To do something about hand-held equipment in the car is also something that the committee is committed to. In fact, compared to other countries, Sweden is not an example in this respect. Sweden is liberal in a bad and good sense, but in a bad sense there are far too few rules. I look forward to the government coming back with some sort of legislation to tackle the problem. Everyone can see when they're on the road that people text and do a lot of other things while sitting behind the wheel. It's not responsible. I heard the introductory speaker talk about doing something about illegal driving schools. It's a problem that's been big and it's big. Driving schooling, training those who are going to take driving licences and thus get the right to drive, is a very responsible task. It is not okay for them to be exposed to competition from black driving school activities. We should be able to agree on various proposals and discuss with the Ministry how it will pay to conduct legal driving school activities and not be outcompeted by supervisors who work black, as we know happens in some cases. What are the reservations that we in the majority have not said yes to? In the first reservation, there is an argument that the Swedish Transport Administration should be given the task of building infrastructure that is safe for all categories. The reason why I do not want that text in the report is not because I do not think so, but because I believe that the Finnish Transport Administration is already doing this today. It has been a big change, and many have come here from other countries to see how we can make and what changes we have made in the infrastructure to reduce the number of deaths per mile driven so much. This has been researched rather well, so you know which measures have been successful and cost-effective. One action is two-plus-one lanes with middle wire. Before you started with it on Swedish roads, when you only had experimental activities, there was a discussion about how to relate to that road technology compared to building four-field roads, i.e. motorways of more traditional average. There were probably several factors, I think, but above all the cost-effectiveness that were considered when choosing to give the Swedish Transport Administration, or then the Swedish Road Administration, the task to concentrate on the design of two-plus-one with middle wire. The cost of building that kind of road compared to the traditional motorway was about a twentieth, which, in terms of how many miles of dangerous road there is in Sweden, led to us being able to protect many more people from dying in collision accidents. It has been and is a successful concept. Similarly, the use of roundabouts and ATK – automatic traffic monitoring with camera – is a successful measure to ensure that the available speed limits are also maintained. It is about both preventing the risk of accidents and reducing the consequences of the accidents that actually occur. Here, too, improvements can be made in the future. I think it is important, particularly in the case of urban transport, that the possibility of further reducing the speed of urban traffic should be carefully tested. However, it is not primarily a national issue, but rather a matter that each municipality should address in cooperation with its inhabitants in order to support the measures taken. But having a reasonable speed in car traffic in urban areas is important if we are to promote active mobility. Active mobility, i.e. walking or cycling – or public transport mixed with walking and cycling – is a health issue. It is perhaps not a safety issue, but a health issue, and ultimately the zero vision is aimed not only at avoiding death but also at preventing damage and promoting the health of the transport system. Then safety, or the sense of safety, depends on the speed at which the cars are driven. However, it is – I would like to repeat – not an issue on which I think we in Parliament should legislate, but on which the municipalities themselves should take a position. I believe that there are good opportunities to combine the ambitions for additional safety in traffic with increased ambitions to reduce environmental impact, increase health impacts in society and reduce sick leave precisely by promoting active mobility. I look forward to developing zero vision work in this direction.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-738	Mr President, I would like to I sat on the bench listening to you, Karin Svensson Smith, and was told that you claimed to reject all reservations. When we were at a seminar on rail and trains, I perceived in the conversation that we had you very much in favour of supporting the exercise I had to do an investigation of a faster legislative change to ban hand-held mobile phones. Zero vision is very important. I know that cycling, cycling, above all, is a very important question for you. Today, cyclists can use the roads much more than before. This is the only reason why hand-held mobile phones should be banned quickly. The number of vulnerable road users on the streets will only increase, and mobile use has increased terribly. We can see that. I often go out with my dog and see it. I don't even have to go out with the dog. It is enough to walk in the city or anywhere or look into a vehicle that is being driven, and you can see that people man-made buttons on their phones. The facebooks, texting or whatever they're doing. What I want to ask you, Karin Svensson Smith, is: why do you not support this motion, which I think you really like?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-743	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it's a big problem that people are texting and Facebooking while driving. Last year I visited the Police College, where I met traffic police professionals who were there for further training. They acknowledged that the legislation we have today is not at all sufficient to prosecute crimes in this respect. If the department were completely uninterested and not working on this issue at all, I would not hesitate to support proposals here in Parliament. But now I know that the department is investigating the possibilities of legislation to plug the risks of traffic as it involves the use of handheld communication equipment in the car, and I respect the fact that team design takes time. If they are to be good, pass the Law Council and gain acceptance in the legal system, the proposals must be designed with great care. As I know that this work is under way, I do not support any of these proposals, but am in favour of the proposal contained in the report as a whole.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-747	Mr President, I would like to The press release issued by the Government was about evaluating the measures introduced in 2013. The Swedish Transport Agency would return to the Government with any proposals, regulatory changes and measures. As I understood what you said, Karin Svensson Smith, you are not satisfied with the law today even if it is a good start. What surprises me is that it is written that we have come a long way but need to go further. The report will be presented on 24 April 2017, i.e. next year. What happens after this report? If the investigation concludes that more people die, will it be investigated how to draft a bill on the outside? It feels a little bit like the government has no idea what to do in the matter and therefore investigates things you already know. The law is toothless. It needs to be more powerful. Zero vision is wonderful – of course no one should die or be badly injured in traffic. But in order to achieve this objective, this vision, action must also be taken. And how long do you have to act? How many people will have to die or get hurt badly before the government gets to grips with this issue?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-754	Mr President, I would like to As noted in the box, we stress that we have strong confidence that the government will work urgently to ban hand-held communication equipment when driving. I think that is a rather clear position from the committee, and I support that. I also know that the evaluation can be carried out in different ways. For me, it is enough to look at what the regulatory framework looks like in the countries of Europe. Only Sweden and Russia have such liberal rules when it comes to small and mobile phone speaking in cars. This seems to me to indicate that there is room for us to improve in this respect. One thing that both this and the previous government have in the reasoning, as well as parties here in Parliament, is that they are looking for a technique that captures everything that prevents the driver from having full control of the traffic. I would like to say, in view of the fact that I have been a government alco-lock investigator, that this is probably not a reasonable ambition. Technology is constantly evolving, and there is no end point for development. You can't catch all the distractions in the car. If you have children in the car, it is of course something that can distract the driver. But just to get to the fact that people are doing text messages and Facebook while driving is urgent. I am very committed to reducing that risk of accidents. I support the proposal in the report as a whole.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-758	Mr President, I would like to Much of what the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, Karin Svensson Smith, is talking about are things on which there is broad consensus. You can remind those who listen that in 1997 a united parliament decided on the zero vision. We have agreed on most things, and I think that is also one of the strengths and successes of that work. There is broad political agreement, and whatever the colour of the government, the work continues tirelessly. It was also gratifying to hear the President give his view on illegal road traffic accidents. The text in which the majority of the committee responds to the strong proposals made by the Moderates states that the Committee notes that the Swedish Transport Agency has taken steps to curb traffic school activities that are carried out without permission. The picture I get when I talk to the Swedish Economic Crime Agency is something completely different from what appears in this text. It is a widespread and extensive activity that has many ramifications, and it is also feared to have ramifications for human trafficking and other things. You go so far in your statements. The Moderates have a sharp motion, a proposal to strongly combat illegal driving schools, and they also provide examples of tools to achieve this. Then my question to Karin Svensson Smith is: is this something you could support, that is to say that we are actually taking a strong stand against this? There is such a request here, and it is perfectly possible for the Swedish Parliament to give the government that task, so that we can move forward.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-761	Mr President, I would like to To relate to what Edward Riedl said at first: I did not try to polemize and portray zero vision as a block-separate issue. I stressed that there were individual activists in this House who questioned it, but on the whole we have been able to stick together across the block borders, which was probably a prerequisite for its success. I hope that we can continue to work in this spirit. That's why I lifted a thread that I perceived that we hadn't finished working on and that we could do more of when I brought up illegal driving schools, black driving schools. But it is not easy to know exactly what to do. I've been involved in limiting the number of students you get to drive in private. In the past there were those who drove with very many, and one could then well assume that it was black driving school. But what is the next step? My experience from cooperation with the Government Office is that rules must be found that are easy to monitor and where the sanctions associated with non-compliance are at such a level that it is reasonable for the justice system to put resources into ensuring compliance with the rules. I am not familiar with exactly what should be done to curb illegal driving school activities, but I am interested in what emerges from this matter. The reason I spoke was because I wanted to show that I think this is important.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-764	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't looking to polemize either. When Karin Smith mentioned that there were different views in this House, I wanted to make it clear that there was a broad political consensus on the zero vision, and it was also decided in agreement here in Parliament. Since then, the work behind it has continued tirelessly, regardless of the color of the government. With regard to measures against illegal driving schools, I would like to point out that it was the Alliance Government that tabled that proposal during the last parliamentary term. It is possible that Karin Svensson Smith had the task of the alliance government to work on this. I can't comment on that, but I'm sure that could have been the case. But it was the Alliance Government that proposed that no more than 15 people could be supervised. This was decided by the Riksdag in 2012 according to a proposal from the Alliance Government. It is possible that it was Karin Svensson Smith who investigated this.
i-fe0a63894482af00-0	No, it was an alcohol lock I was investigating. ) In any case, we can see that there are still problems with this business. We highlight a number of proposals to overcome this, including reducing the number of people you can have a wrist permit for from today's 15, i.e. giving the government the task of investigating reducing the number of wrist permits. You don't usually have 15 people in the family that you supervise in traffic. So the number could be reduced, and that would remove some of the problem. Some efforts can also be made to facilitate the detection of illegal traffic school activities. If Karin Svensson Smith agrees with the description of the problem, why do we not go forward with the proposal to instruct the government to move forward?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-768	Mr President, I would like to What I have investigated is the introduction of mandatory alcohol locks. That was a completely different thing. But now we leave that case and look at the illegal driving schools. It seems reasonable to further limit the number of people you have to drive with. But I remember when the limit to 15 people was introduced. At that time, many thought it was a major restriction. Perhaps that is why it has been taken in stages. This is probably the time to take the next step. However, I believe that there are other things that should also be done. The positive importance of driving schools can be highlighted. When I worked with alcohol locks, the driving schools were among the very first to install alcohol locks in the cars used in teaching. I believe that this has been very important for the acceptance of alcohol locks. You had to try and see that it was not something strange but that it was good, especially so that you don't have to meet a driver who is drunk. I believe that driving schools play a very important role and think that it is reasonable for us in the political system to safeguard healthy entrepreneurship in driving schools. I will follow this issue with an active interest.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-772	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I intended to focus on two points in particular. Let me start by saying, however, that in the report we are dealing with a total of 69 motion requests from the 2015 general exercise period. I intend to dwell on two fairly decisive proposals for road safety which are now on the way, which we in the committee have debated, discussed and pushed forward. It is about the introduction of automatic sobriety controls – the decision taken last week by the government – in three to five ports carrying ferry services abroad and on communication equipment and driving, which several of my fellow debaters have mentioned in the past. We have worked very long and successfully in Sweden when it comes to zero vision. It has served us well, I would argue. The reason for this is that we have set a figure in terms of the number of injured and killed in traffic. There has been a lot of efforts both locally and nationally in terms of zero vision work. I myself have good experiences from my municipality of Motala, where you have worked very much with the zero vision. That work is progressing. But there may be a need for a fresh start in some parts. I am therefore pleased that the government has now begun work on modernising road safety. This has been done together with the organisations that are very active in this area. It's MHF and NTF. There are several of the organisations that you know about. But there are also others, Motormen and others, who are active in this part. It will be exciting to see where we will land in that work. I say that we have been invited from other political parties to such work. Alkobommar is an issue that has been widely debated in the Transport Committee, both during the current term of office and during the previous term of office. Now there is a commission for Trafikverket to come back to the government with proposals of three to five ports in 2016 where we can start this with alco-bommers. Will it come out well, as I am quite sure it will, and certainly many with me, I see good opportunities for it to develop even more in the future. There have also been a great many discussions over the years about communication equipment on the road. Several of the speakers have mentioned it in previous speeches. In 2013, the then alliance government decided after – we shall remember – pressure from the Parliament's Transport Committee, announcements and other things to introduce a series of measures to limit the use of communication equipment while travelling. It is then behind the announcements that have been. Now may be the time to assess the impact of the measures taken in 2013. Therefore, the Government has decided to give a mandate to the Swedish Transport Agency to review the impact of the decisions. It must be completed by 24 April 2017. We have been clear from our side that we are prepared to proceed with legislation on the use of communication equipment while travelling. We'll have to come back to what it's supposed to look like later. I would also like to dwell in my speech on what Edward Riedl mentioned about road maintenance. It is true, Edward, that we have decided to reduce road maintenance by SEK 500 million in 2016. The reason for this is clear. It's to meet the budget ceiling. I'd lie if I said something else. That's it. But it is only for 2016 that we have frozen this. Then we make new decisions when it comes to 2017 and onwards. We will do this in the autumn in connection with future budgetary decisions and other things. Of course, this is not something we are proud of, but sometimes it is necessary to cope with a country's economy in that way. What we have added is that it will not affect rural areas in terms of maintenance, but it will be handled differently. We certainly have reason to talk about this in other contexts. As far as illegal traffic schools are concerned, I can agree with Edward and others that it is of course very important to follow that activity. There is a steering document, prepared by the Swedish Transport Agency, on how this should be handled, how to make efforts to follow up and, above all, how to handle it when you receive a notification that there is illegal traffic school activities. It is very important to report this. I would like to point that out. If you experience or suspect that there is an illegal traffic school activity, you should of course report it to the Swedish Transport Agency to get to grips with it. I would also like to say to Mr Edward and others who have been concerned about this issue: it goes without saying that we are following it carefully and are prepared to go far if it is in the way of revealing such elements. This applies both to the police and to the Transport Agency, which has the supervisory responsibility in this part. With those words, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-788	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Johan Andersson! Johan Andersson is very committed to bicycle issues. In addition to a general political commitment, he has particularly taken on the cycling network here in the Swedish parliament together with Boriana Åberg and others. I think that's very good, because that's how the traffic situation is. There are many different types of traffic that should be accommodated in the same road area. And we all want cycling to increase as part of how we travel, for reasons of congestion, environmental and public health. In view of this, we can see what it is like to see the number of injured and killed in bicycle traffic. It is not in any way the fault of the present government, but it is a development we are seeing. Overall, therefore, the number of people killed fell, but those killed in the cycle are increasing. In light of the knowledge I know that Johan Andersson has and that Johan Andersson represents one of the two government parties and is very committed to the issue, my question is: In what way will the commitment to increased cycling and a safer cycling environment be reflected in the infrastructure bill that we eagerly look forward to seeing presented in Parliament this autumn?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-791	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders, for the questions! It's absolutely right as you say. I'm passionate about bike promotion, which I think is a very important part. There we can do much more in the country. In parallel with the development of the infrastructure bill, the government is working on a cycle strategy. It happens very widely with the organisations that are very active in that part but also with individuals and others. I look forward to it being presented, which will happen before the summer. What has been found in the five working groups that have worked on the cycle strategy will also be part of the forthcoming work on the infrastructure bill. It is clear that it is absolutely necessary to increase safety. This applies to the proportion of injuries to the traffic of those travelling by bicycle. How else are we going to get more people to use their bikes today? Then I don't think we should forget that there is a great deal of work going on in our municipalities on cycling strategies in different parts. It is a work to develop bicycle plans to increase the proportion of roads where vulnerable road users can travel. It is not so many years ago that it was very unusual in urban planning to plan for walking and cycling routes. Today, it is almost self-evident in many of our municipalities.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-796	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Johan Andersson! I share Johan Andersson's view that the primary municipal and regional political level in our country also has a very great responsibility. This can be seen in how, for example, Region Östergötland prioritises cycle routes and cycle safety in the regional transport plan. In the national action plan decided by the government in 2010, when Åsa Torstensson from the Center Party represented these issues in a joint alliance government, it was the first time that national funds were set aside for bicycle routes in our country. The national political level thus identified specific projects and objects. The Kattegat trail was one of these on the west coast side. It was positive that Johan Andersson mentioned this with a bicycle strategy. Can we, Mr President, take Johan Andersson's statement for revenue because the cycling strategy will also colour the infrastructure bill that we are looking forward to this autumn? Can we also take this as revenue because work on the national priorities of cycling, expressed in SEK and ör, which started in 2010, continues and that it takes the form of larger figures, SEK and ör 2016 and 2018, when the national decision is taken? I know that Johan Andersson cannot stand here and make any promises, but he can express an ambition as a representative of the largest of the two government parties with a very large and heavy commitment to the issue.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-800	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Anders Åkesson that in this year's budget we have already allocated SEK 100 million in two years for investments in bicycle promotion measures. That's 75 million in 2016 and 25 million in 2017, I'm up to it. Or if it was the other way around, but it was 100 million anyway. This is one way of increasing the work on the cycling strategy, but it is also about concrete measures. We'll get back to what's going to happen. It would be presumptuous to make some promises, Anders Åkesson, because it is not the Riksdag that is presenting the infrastructure bill without the government, but I think we would be very surprised if it came to this House and did not include a broad effort in terms of bicycle strategy and promotion to get more people to ride safer.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-803	Mr President, I would like to I tried to describe in my speech that traffic is dangerous even in one of the world's most road safety countries and how important it is that we continue to work on the zero vision. In this context, it is unfortunate, Mr President, that we are taking money away from what could make our roads safer, even though my colleague Johan Andersson from the Social Democrats explains why we are cutting back on road maintenance and thus also road safety for budgetary reasons. Then there will be less money for risk reduction, less money for wildlife fences and more. With regard to the question, Mr President, whether the government manages the Swedish economy well or badly, we can say in this context that if you borrow into operation in good times, i.e. you run Sweden with a deficit when we have a boom, it may well be discussed whether you run or mismanage the Swedish economy. However, other committees and our economic policy spokespersons are better placed to do this. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to illegal driving schools, I think it is good that several parties on the other side also note that there may be concerns. But I think it's too defensive in this context to talk about that you should follow it carefully and so on. In fact, there is an opportunity to do something about this. People who work day-to-day at the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency with this type of question say that if it is difficult to prove a particular type of crime, and this is one, then it is also less likely to report that type of crime. This is connected. We have seen it in cabotage and other areas, where it could be said that no, there is no one who is convicted of breaking the cabotage rules, because it is so difficult to investigate. That way, a circular reasoning is carried out, and then there is no problem either. I would like you to be more offensive in this.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-809	Mr President, I would like to I would like to discuss the budgetary situation with Edward Riedl. I'm not very worried about it at the moment, actually. We have very good growth in the country. We have a falling unemployment rate. We have an increasing population, and above all an increasing young population, in order to be able to cope with the future development of the Swedish labour market. I therefore believe that we are in a very good position as a nation to succeed in this. But it is clear that then we must also take the right steps. We must ensure that the new arrivals who have now arrived in Sweden enter our labour force quickly, quickly learn the Swedish language and also quickly enter Swedish society. There we have a common responsibility in this House to stimulate action to succeed. I would like to have a discussion on this, but I say, like Edward Riedl: there are other committees and other Members who have it as their main task in this House. As for the illegal traffic schools, I can reassure Edward Riedl. Of course we will follow what is happening and happening in the area. We have from the Transport Committee a well-established network of organisations that today organise traffic schools within the law's landmarks. I am thinking of STR, the R Iks Association of the Swedish Transport Schools, which we usually meet every year and which naturally also courts us as representatives in the Committee on Transport. We will of course have a dialogue with them in this part. Of course, we will follow up on this, and we see that the situation is getting worse in the case of illegal traffic schools and so on, of course, we will take action. Anything else would be hopeless.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-814	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has good growth, and jobs are emerging. It's a pleasure for all of us. Then we can discuss whether this is due to the policy that the Social Democrats have been ruling on for a few months, or whether the alliance budget last year is the reason why it looks good. I know, as I said, that this debate is taking place quite violently in other committees. I can see that this government is lending to operations in good times. It can't reasonably be running the economy, as I see it. What is a pity is that you save on road safety when the money is not enough anyway, and I would like to say that. Mr President, I would like to I am not very calm about what Johan Andersson from the Social Democrats says. He is therefore trying to reassure me by once again claiming that progress should be followed, dialogue and so on. I have talked to the Swedish Transport Schools' National Association this morning, and perhaps Johan has also done so. I don't know. But they're anything but calm. They are very concerned about the developments they see, and so should the government. You should be concerned, because when you allow cheating, it ultimately means you get less tax revenue, less money for welfare, and that is what is happening. If you don't keep track of this, illegal activities are allowed to grow. On Monday there was a raid in Värmland. As I said, it was a preliminary investigation and we cannot say anything about the individual case. But the opinion of the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency is that it is a widespread and nationwide problem with illegal traffic schools, and there is also other crime linked to this. I do not think we should be calm, and all those to whom Johan Andersson refers, Mr President, are actually very concerned. The Swedish Transport Schools Federation is very concerned. If you're talking to people who work with the questions, they're worried. But the government is not concerned, and I am concerned about that, Mr President.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-820	Mr President, I would like to I have not told Edward Riedl that the government is not concerned. It is clear that we have a responsible government that is following the events of the world around us. That's it. This is part of it, as many other situations are part of it. I am quite convinced that this issue is being followed, and then we will see what happens from what has happened. We have given the instruments to the Swedish Transport Agency to follow, develop and ensure this. We have other authorities who also have a mission to follow this. If it is in this way that we from the Parliamentary Transport Committee feel that this issue is particularly urgent, we naturally have every opportunity and every opportunity to initiate it in different ways to the Government. That instrument is also well known to Edward Riedl, so I will not develop it any more. I can reassure Edward Riedl and the rest of the House that the responsible government that we have today will obviously follow this issue. I'm absolutely convinced of that.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-824	Mr President, I would like to These are important points highlighted in the report. The Left Party supports the committee's proposal in the report on the whole, although there are several reservations which the bourgeois side has highlighted here and which are important. However, work is under way on most of these things that are reliable, so the Left Party can support the committee's proposal in the report. Road safety work within the zero vision has been a success where progress is made and all actors work together to achieve the goals. It's really positive. However, we have a lot to do in the future. One problem is professional traffic and trucks, especially in southern Sweden. There has been a motion from the Moderates to hand over vehicle controls to others than the police. We see a problem with this, even if more controls are needed. Instead, the Left Party would like to propose the model that exists in Denmark. There is a special unit dealing with checks on lorries, which has proved to be very successful. At the unit you are specially trained and can focus only on this, and it also requires a little more resources right there. We would therefore prefer to see this model in order to ensure that the controls are of good quality and that they can be reliable. It's a tested idea. The work with alcohol booms is incredibly important to deal with the alcohol problems of many truck drivers. The Left Party believes that it is positive that the work continues, that attempts are now being made in several ports and that the work will be further developed in the future. We think that's a good thing. With regard to the safe use of communication equipment and mobile phones when driving, the tightening of the rules is a step in the right direction. There have been more cases brought before the courts, and this shows that the strengthened rules have an effect. However, the Left Party believes that it is important for us to see in the future whether we need to tighten up the rules further. It is good that the government is reviewing this and that it will put forward further proposals in this area so that we can overcome the problem. Speed limits are also being addressed and some roads are being speeded up. Analyses show that increasing speeds increases CO2 emissions and the number of dangerous particles in the air increases. It's also dangerous for traffic. Accident risks are increasing. That's why it's important to keep your speed down. However, on the basis of these aspects, we would like to see an evaluation of the increases that have been made in certain ways. As far as competence requirements for emergency drivers are concerned, we see that this is a positive piece of work that is going on. The aim is to coordinate the whole process so as to maintain a good quality of training for emergency vehicle drivers. But it has gone so far that there is a major problem in ambulance operations and other emergency services. Stockholm County Council, for example, has been criticized by the ambulance union because of this. They have very poor emergency preparedness and poor equipment. But this is due to profit interests, cuts and poor margins in the business. It is not because of the training of drivers, because they have a good education at the bottom. We absolutely want this to be coordinated and it to be checked that it works, but we also need to ensure that there are margins in the activities. It is serious that we have a society that does not look to social benefit but to profit in terms of functions as important as saving lives. However, this is another area; it is not traffic that is at issue here. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that these are important issues, but they are therefore part of another area. New rules have been introduced for field of vision tests that make it easier for doctors to report if a person is dangerous to traffic. We welcome this. It is important to evaluate this and review it to see if you need to continue working on it. Otherwise, the Left Party supports the committee's proposal in the report.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-834	Mr President, I would like to In exercise 2015/ 16:2067 Carina Herrstedt and Jimmy Ståhl say that many elderly people suffer from dementia and other diseases while fewer and fewer doctors report inappropriate drivers to the Swedish Transport Agency. Only 8% of the doctors who make a dementia diagnosis report the patient to the Swedish Transport Agency. Exercisers therefore call for the possibility of introducing mandatory medical checks on licence holders to be reviewed. I thought I'd bring up a couple of real-life events. In 1998 we noticed that my father was becoming increasingly forgetful. I got a call from my mom once. They'd been out driving, and she told me, "Do you know what happened when we were driving?" We were driving up the highway, and Dad was about to drive into the wrong lane — in the wrong direction. I had to stop him at the last minute. After my mother passed away in 1999, I noticed that my father was becoming increasingly forgetful and demented. He called once and said he needed money. He belongs to the generation that went to the bank to withdraw money. But he had an ATM card that I had fixed, and I went and took out money for him. I took out 2,000 kroner and went to his place and left the money. The next day, my dad called me again and said, "Hey, Per! I need money. Can you come and take out the money and give it to me? I told him I had done it the day before, and I went to his house and looked everywhere in the apartment. But there were not the 2,000 kroner, and he claimed that I had never been there to leave the money. I became increasingly worried about driving. How do you explain to a person who has been driving a car all his life and who himself considers himself the master of the steering wheel that he is unfit as a driver? There is no manual for this. There are no instructions. A relative does not have the right to take his driving licence from another person. Mr President, I would like to In the autumn of 1999, I received a call from the police in Svedala. They said, "Can you come to us at the police station and sign out your father?" I asked what happened. You come over here and we'll talk about it, the police said. Turns out my father was going to visit his sister who lived in Svedala at the time. He had been with her hundreds of times before, but now he got lost in Svedala. He couldn't find it. He stopped by a house, rang the doorbell and told me that he had lost his way. The couple who lived in the house felt sorry for him and invited him for a cup of coffee and a sandwich. They noticed he was confused, so they called the police. The police came to get him. I drove my father home from the police station and kept the car at my house. On several occasions thereafter, he called and asked for his car. He said I had to have the car. Can you come and leave it? I said I'll be back tomorrow. I postponed it day after day, but eventually I came to the inevitable. I need to have a serious talk with my dad. When I met him, I said, "Dad, there's a day when you're too old to drive a car." Then you're unfit to be a driver. What do you think of that? Then my father replied: "You, so do I. I think I'm unfit to drive. But can you drive me when I need transport, and we'll figure it out like that? I sighed a sigh of relief. I didn't have to take this conflict with my father. In order to save innocent people from being injured and perhaps even killed in traffic as a result of inappropriate drivers, Carina Herrstedt and Jimmy Ståhl want the possibility of introducing mandatory medical checks on licence holders to be reviewed. Mr President, I would like to I agree with that.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-843	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying to Per Klarberg that it was a very rewarding story that he had. I think we all feel exactly the same about our parents. Many of us have the same problem. The way you managed to tackle this, Per Klarberg, was very good. I'll give you all the credit. I was very pleased when Robert Halef raised the issue of snowmobile driving, so that I do not have to be entirely alone in this speaker's chair to talk about it. Now snowmobile driving is finally taken up in sports. This issue is very important for many people, especially in northern Sweden, in Sweden's interior and quite far down to Värmland and so on. But when you go further south, where the large population concentrations are, this is a non-issue. It is not possible to drive snowmobiles in Östergötland or in Skåne, not very often in any case. This does not mean that this is not an important issue. For a lot of people this is about freedom, an opportunity to get out into nature and very far out into nature to be able to do outdoor activities – be able to fish and do other things. Edward Riedl spoke earlier about sharks. He said eight people a year get killed by sharks. Then I can say that only in the last few weeks have three people died in snowmobile accidents in Norrbotten. It is serious when such accidents occur. It is serious for us throughout the country when people die in road accidents. I think that snowmobile issues are badly organised in Sweden today. The snowmobile should be, like all other traffic operations, part of what the Finnish Transport Administration is doing and part of what the Ministry of Industry has under its jurisdiction when you have all other infrastructure and all other traffic issues there. But that is not the case today, but it is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Ministry of the Environment that are dealing with these issues. So the snowmobile is actually seen as an environmental problem. That is not the case today. Perhaps it was earlier, but that is not the case today. There are environmental issues linked to this and, as with car traffic, care can be taken to ensure that the expert authorities that exist on these issues speak out. As I said, several people are badly killed or injured in snowmobile traffic. I think it should be part of the zero vision that no one should die in snowmobile accidents in Sweden either. We should get a better system of things there. Of course, one can say that there have traditionally been problems with alcohol and snowmobile driving. That's right. It was like that before. It was not very careful if you took a beer or two and drove snowmobiles. It was considered to be included, so to speak. But that's not the case anymore. Especially among the younger ones, it's not like that anymore. This is largely due to the training of snowmobile drivers. This means that this problem has been significantly reduced. After all, however, the problem is there, and attention must be paid to this, in exactly the same way that there is in driving. As in the case of alcoboms, alcolocks and other measures, this also applies to snowmobiles. There are no roads for snowmobiles. Snowmobile roads are the snowmobile trails that are drawn up annually by nonprofit-working people in many cases. The financing of these leads is a major problem today. In some parts of Sweden you have payment trails. Elsewhere there are municipalities that pay for this. But nowhere does it work perfectly well, with a few exceptions. Here we would need to have such a system that the snowmobile owners themselves and the tourism industry are involved in financing a core network of snowmobile trails around Sweden. I think I'm the only way forward. The tourism industry is also a major user of snowmobiles today. Many tourism companies actually live by having snowmobile driving in their range. In Sweden we have what is called free driving of snowmobiles. You don't have to drive in a joint. The requirement is not to drive only on trails in Sweden. But you have to drive on joints under certain conditions, which is obvious. This is not the case in Norway, and that is not the case in Finland. In Norway, snowmobile traffic is in principle prohibited. There we are now looking a little closer at introducing leads, and that is a municipal issue in Norway. In Finland you have snowmobile trails that you can drive on. As has been pointed out in some motions, in Norway you must have a driving licence to drive snowmobiles. That's where I have to correct Robert Halef. This is not the case in Sweden. Here you have driving licences that are not included in our driving licence system. That is why we really have a problem between Sweden and Norway. The Swedish Government wants our licence to be valid there and press on about it. But the Norwegian Government does not want that. But if the rest of you can write this exercise in the Norwegian Parliament, I think it would be much more worth than writing motions about it in Sweden to get the Swedish Government to take this on board. We are pressing on this issue. That's it. Mr President, I would like to One can be in favour of technological development and, at the same time, oppose the use of dangerous technologies and communication equipment while driving. I just wanted to say that in connection with the discussion that was here earlier on handheld mobile phones and so on. It is possible to design a law so that it pushes on new technologies but at the same time prohibits things that are dangerous. You have to remember that. All the police officers with whom I have spoken have said that the change made by the previous government in relation to the regulation in this area is far from sufficient. It is simply nothing that can be used. But it's coming, don't worry. We are on the way forward on this issue too. I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-860	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Leif Pettersson mentioned. It was a fine speech for the welfare and woe of the snowmobile in our kingdom. I think we're in complete agreement on most of that stuff. As I said, there are no obvious differences between the Social Democrats and the alliance parties in terms of snowmobile policy. You might think that's a good thing, too. However, the alliance request dealt with in this report – if I may return to it for a moment – is about giving the government a mandate to resolve the dispute that we have with Norway. This dispute has been going on for almost two years. Shortly after the Alliance lost the government power, another accident happened. It was that Norway then refused to recognise Swedish driver's certificates in Norway, despite Sweden's recognition of Norwegian driver's certificates in Sweden. That is what the alliance request is about. We just want to send you that it would have been good if you had joined this and given this mission to the government. It's taken way too long. In all other areas, we recognise each other's driving licences, driving licences and other things in most democratic countries of the world. Therefore, the fact that the government has not been able to resolve the dispute with Norway for this long time is a bit remarkable. It is Anna Johansson who is responsible. We think she should take that. Therefore, it would have been appropriate to make a sharp announcement from the Riksdag to actually address and resolve the issue.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-863	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it's not Norwegian driver's license, it's Norwegian driver's license. That is the problem – that Norway has a driving licence and we have a licence. That is what Norway does not accept as a driving licence. That's where the dispute lies. I think that is wrong. I think Norway should approve our licence, because we have a very good licence training that is being carried out. This is true from 16 years old, and I can imagine that Norway might have views on it – that you are too young to drive snowmobiles then. I don't really know what the Norwegian driving licence rules look like. But remember that it is the Norwegian Government that does not want this. The Swedish Government wants to do so. The Swedish Government is pressing, and the Swedish Government has taken it up. This has been mentioned in connection with the Nordic Council, among other things. They are trying to get the Norwegian Government to come to a better conclusion. I take the view that we must change the government in Norway too and get the old Social Democratic Government back there for something to happen. The present government does not seem to want to do anything about this, so perhaps that would be appropriate. I assume that you have good contacts with your Norwegian colleagues, just as we do, and that you put the question through the Norwegian tortling so that we can get that way to a better system of things.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-866	Mr President, I would like to We are not going to extend the debate enormously; there are other committees waiting. Instead, I can say that I think it would be unfortunate to replace the Norwegian bourgeois government with the Norwegian people. It might be better to replace the Swedish Government, and it might go a little faster. But, as I said, we wish you every success in this work. We'd been looking forward to you assisting us in the requests to give this mission to the government.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-867	Mr President, I would like to The government has already understood the mission, and the government is already working on the issue. An announcement, therefore, like so many announcements by the bourgeois opposition in the Committee on Transport, had been a blow to the air.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-870	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to discuss a report which deals with 17 different requests for exercise from the general period of exercise last autumn. It concerns several issues, including regional news coverage, access to Nordic TV, event list, limited advertising time, television advertising and constitutional protection for public service. As usual, I could almost say, the committee takes the view that all the requests for motion are being dealt with. However, this does not mean that the committee thinks that all the proposals are bad. For example, there are some motion requests that concern the need to strengthen regional news coverage, and the committee, like the motionaries, believes it is important that there is a journalistic presence throughout the country. Especially in sparsely populated parts of the country we can see that the presence of journalistic activities is decreasing – newspapers are closing, there are problems with distribution and so on. That's not good, of course. A democratic conversation is based on the fact that we can all have access to the media and a good news coverage. At the moment, however, there are a number of investigations that affect this area in various ways, including the Media Investigation, which analyses the need for new media policy efforts when the pre-support as it stands today ends. The starting point for the analysis should be the democratic challenges that accompany the media development we see and the changing use of media. The focus should be that one should have access to comprehensive information and be able to be democratically involved in the conversation no matter where in the country one lives. The amendments are therefore rejected because investigations are already under way and because the committee wants them to finish their work and present their proposals before we make new decisions on these issues. Another example of this is the proposal for an event list, where work is already under way. There is a proposal being prepared in the Government Office, and the committee therefore rejects the motion because we do not think there should be any further action at the moment. I share the committee's view on all requests for rejection, except in one case. It is the view that the public service mission itself needs constitutional protection. The Left Party believes that the very existence of public services needs to be protected. The content of public service must not be controlled, and the public service companies must provide impartial social information; it is absolutely clear. But there is no protection for the mission itself, i.e. access to impartial social information, news and so on via radio and television. We believe that constitutional protection needs to be designed in such a way as to prevent the public service mission itself from being restricted. On the other hand, we think it should be extended. The Left Party's view is that it should be investigated how such constitutional protection should be designed, and I therefore call for the reservation to be approved.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-876	Mr President, I would like to This is a motion report with motions from general exercise time, and media policy is really the focus of the debate. That's good. The government has, as Mia Sydow Mölleby said, set up a media investigation, and there is also more investigation work going on. People in Sweden have the right to news throughout the country, about the whole country and from all over the country. Last year, we dealt with the government's proposal on pre-financing. There were improvements for the press. The digital editions may also be included. Another decision we made then was that we want to see a reduction in advertising tax, and it is now announced from 2017. We have a government that goes from words to action, and positive things are happening. Also the special support for newspapers to be able to carry out technological development, precisely to meet more people who can read them, will get started this year. This autumn, the first applications will be dealt with by the Presättsnämnden (Prestjänstnämnden). This year the Freedom of the Press Act turns 250 years, but how free is the word really? Sweden has slipped down on that list, we heard on the news today. Free speech is threatened by constant hatred and constant threats. Hate and threats have become an unpleasant and highly present part of a journalist's everyday life, and that is, of course, something that is the real threat to the media community. There is a specific debate on this in report KU18, which we are also debating today. There are many issues related to the development of media society. It is not just a matter for the KU and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, but really for our whole society. It is about the infrastructure and how we teach young people – and perhaps also adults – source criticism. It is about how we resist the hatred and threats to just keep the free speech and a climate of conversation that is reasonable. We must be careful and see how we can support good journalistic work throughout the country by political means. I feel very safe when it comes to public service. An absolute majority of the parties in the Riksdag want to protect a strong and independent public service; it is the Swedish Democrats who are floating on the goal and think that it is not really necessary. Outside our house, however, the debate is creative and broad about what should be called public service and who should be allowed to claim public service funding. It is not an issue for the debate here today, but it may well be an issue for the debate in the future. As I said, there is ongoing investigation work both on the event list and on the media society for the future. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of the report as a whole and therefore rejecting all motions for resolutions.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-882	Mr President, I would like to I raise my hand and admit that I have an addiction. I'm addicted to news. There is a name for it, an English one, newsaholic. Immediately when I wake up and open my eyes, I reach out for my mobile phone or other international, local and social media. The morning goes on to read the paper editions of the local newspapers and have the news programmes on TV in the background. For the rest of the day when I this depend on TT flash and constant updates via mobile or computer. Mr President, I would like to I am by no means alone in this dependence. I share this with many in our news-thirsty and enlightened country, not least in this building. And access to free, comprehensive and comprehensive media is, of course, the cornerstone of our democratic social system and of absolute importance to safeguard. The Constitutional Committee's report No 19 deals with a number of motions from last autumn which concern precisely mass media issues, such as conditions for news coverage throughout the country, especially in the development of an increasingly dominant digital environment, the distribution of newspapers, press subsidies, advertising, Nordic joint broadcasting and so on. I will dwell on some of the issues raised in the motions. Mr President, I would like to With the development of the digital environment, the conditions for what we somewhat disrespectfully call old media have changed. Reduced editions and advertising revenues, higher printing and staff costs and major technical investments, among other things, have resulted in closures of newspapers and cuts in the journalistic presence around the country. This, of course, is a development that we must tackle through a balanced policy that takes account of technological developments, citizens' media consumption, geographical conditions and real access. The Alliance parties in the Constitutional Committee have carried out a number of visits around the country to local editorial offices to discuss directly with those who work in the industry the problems and challenges I have just listed and which several of the sportsmen also raise in their movements. Both the former and the current government have set up various investigations to look at how best to consider all components of future media development. Pending the government's return to Parliament with proposals made in this situation, all motions will be made. We in the Constitutional Committee have attributed a number of things to the government in this work, including a new experiment on the co-distribution of newspapers and mail, the gradual abolition of advertising tax and an increase in support for low-frequency newspapers. Mr President, I would like to I also have another addiction. I am a Northist in my soul and heart and have had the great joy of having been leading one of the committees in the Nordic Council for several years. There, the question of the possibility for Nordic citizens to follow the television channels of our respective countries, highlighted in one of the motions, has long been heated, and this is an issue with which I can really sympathise. Training in the Nordic languages, a greater understanding of each other and what is happening in the Nordic countries are all important parameters in the development of our Nordic community. However, it is not as easy the cop out of his nose as one could imagine with free access to each other's television channels. Questions of both copyright and economic justification arise. The Nordic Council has therefore recommended the Council of Ministers to develop a strategy in the area of media and copyright to be presented this year. I look forward to this and can at the same time tell you that it is perfectly possible to add a Nordic TV offer to the choice of digital TV channels. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to touch on the Left Party's reservation in the report. It applies to the part of the motion from the same party about the constitutional protection of public services, as Mia von Sydow Mölleby has told us, or state media in order, as it says in the motion, to be able to get impartial public information, news and narrower programmes... Mr President, I would like to Apart from the fact that, if I'm going to be a little mean, the motionaries may implicitly feel that other people than the impartiality of state media can be questioned, the exercisers raise events in Greece as an example. There the public service company ERT, Elliniki Radiofonia Tileorasi, was closed in 2013 by the then government because the company was inefficient and expensive. After all, Greece was at this time – and is still, though not as serious – in the midst of a financial crisis and needed to review its finances. But in the case of the ERT, the inefficiency and also the trust in this public service company was rather low. It was confirmed by many who worked in the company and later left it. With regard to the integrity of public services, one can highlight another country in which the public service of the country has to cost in principle as much as possible, and which is very effective in bringing state news or, what we often call it, disinformation and propaganda, namely Russia. That being so, I would just like to say that because the media are state-owned and, in accordance with the Left Party's proposal, if they were to get their way, this does not in itself mean that social information is impartial. Maybe it's even the other way around. Such a change might make different media choices more difficult and thus risk contributing to a reduction in the diversity and impartiality of the media. With this, I would like to support the draft decision of the Constitutional Committee in report No 19 and the rejection of the Left Party's reservation.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-893	Mr President, I would like to While we rejoice and are proud of 250 years of freedom of the press, the daily press has an extremely problematic economic situation as a result of the rapid loss of advertising revenue. In 2007, the total advertising revenue to the daily press was SEK 9 billion. This year they are expected to land at SEK 4 1⁄2 billion. So that's half of the revenue you had just two years ago. It is clear that SEK 4 1⁄2 billion in lost revenue has major consequences – consequences that we see in the form of news editorials that are reduced to a minimum, local editors that close down and newspaper titles that disappear. Of course, the first question to ask is: Does this matter? Is that something that we should try to counteract politically? The Green Party and my answer, of course, is: yes, it is a political responsibility to counteract this development. Pre-aid is not economic and not labour market policy support. Pre-aid is the resources that we need to ensure the conditions for a viable democracy. Think of the local desk! Who will then inform about what is going on in the municipality so that citizens can get involved and activate themselves? Think of the local desk! Who will then clarify the differences between political parties so that all citizens can make initial elections to the municipal council and to the county council? If the local news desk is not there, who will clarify complex issues from different perspectives and not just from a single perspective? And who should review authorities and decision-makers and thus minimise corruption and abuse of power? We need the news desks, not least at local level, to ensure a viable democracy. That is why I am very pleased that we now have a broad political consensus on pre-support issues. Last spring we made decisions in which all four alliance parties supported the government's proposal on how we could develop the PRS. Since 1 January, we have also strengthened the pre-aid, so that the newspapers can, among other things, also be credited with the revenues they have from digital publishing and that they are also pre-supporting. Soon we will also have a direct development grant so that the newspapers that want to make the journey from just being in paper printing to also having a business model with digital publishing have an economic opportunity to do so. Let us remember that these changes do not save the situation in the long term. Urgent action is needed to deal with the situation here and now. But development will continue, and development requires us to come up with completely new systems to support not least local newsrooms. That is why the government has appointed the Media investigation, which will present its final report in October. However, the media investigation has already presented a memo on 17 points related to public service. These are interesting points, and I will mention three of them. One of the points concerns the need for a complete survey of the state of competition in the media sector, not only between the daily press and public service, but also with regard to the global internet giants. What role do they play in our media landscape? Another point is whether there is a possibility of strengthening public service responsibility for the local news supply. It can be done in several ways, of course through its own editorial offices but perhaps even better in cooperation with other free and independent news desks locally. A third important perspective highlighted by the Media investigation is to ensure the independence of public services, even in the face of a future in which we can find ourselves in the situation of a government that does not like free and independent media and instead wants to transform public services into a form of government propaganda. It may sound unlikely in Sweden today, but that is exactly what we are seeing in Poland and Hungary. Here we belong to the Swedish Democrats talking about the journalist corps as the nation's enemy and making proposals that public service should introduce withdrawal time for journalists who have worked in the daily press. The development work proposed by the Media Investigation, which deals with how we can ensure the independence of public services, even if we should have a government with this negative view of free and independent media, is very important. In parallel with the Media Investigation, the Media Basic Law Committee works, but of course not from the perspective of finding support systems for a free and independent press. However, many of the discussions held by the Media Basic Law Committee also concern questions about how the conditions of the daily press can be strengthened. I am thinking not least of the problematic situation of the responsible publisher today. According to the legislation, the responsible publisher has responsibility not only for his own publishing decisions but for all the material that is on the newspaper's website and has been published back in time. It's a completely unreasonable order. The responsible publisher can reasonably only take responsibility for his or her own publishing decisions. I hope that we will come back with proposals in this direction. I look forward to the proposals that the government will put forward on the basis of the two investigations that are now working so that we can strengthen the conditions for local news offices in the future. I support the committee's proposal.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-910	Mr President, I would like to There is no question of public service having a role. It is partly highlighted in the motion raised by the Left Party on minority news programmes and narrower cultural programmes that may not be part of the large commercial supply. I do not know if I really understood Niclas Malmberg in terms of constitutional protection. Free and independent media already have constitutional protection under the Freedom of Expression and Press Act. Niclas Malmberg wants to secure public service against future undemocratic governments through constitutional protection. However, this cannot be guaranteed by constitutional protection, but must be done by safeguarding the freedom of expression and the freedom of the press. Niclas Malmberg cites Hungary as an example. But look at Russia! There you have state television, and the party, the state and the Duma basically own the media and conduct much disinformation and targeted media. There is constitutional protection, but it does not work in practice. Is it not better to safeguard the Freedom of Expression and Press Act for all the media in Sweden?
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-914	Mr President, I would like to Annicka Engblom confuses two questions. The discussion I am having has nothing to do with the Left Party's motion. I am talking about ensuring the independence of public services from the governments. That is what may need constitutional protection. Today, the system works well. A government appoints members of an administrative foundation who then appoints members of the three public service broadcasters. But what if a government like Poland wants to take power over public service and place its own confidant in public service management? It's simple. It immediately appoints half of the members of the Board of Directors of the Administrative Foundation who immediately convene new AGMs and appoints their own Boards, including CEOs, in the public service companies. We do not want to end up in such a situation. We do not want to make this possible for a government that does not have good intentions with public service and does not want public service to act independently, but, on the contrary, wants to govern it with state propaganda, in the way that Mrs Engblom talked about. We must make such a situation impossible, and this can be done in many different ways. The media inquiry raised the issue and says that it is an issue that we must deal with based on the situation we have in the Swedish Parliament today with a party that does not actually recognise the free and independent role of public service broadcasters but, on the contrary, wants to govern.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-918	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to review how other parties view this issue. But thank you for the clarification. At least now I know what Niclas Malmberg thinks. I am a little concerned that through this reasoning Niclas Malmberg expresses both mistrust of our democratic system and mistrust of the impartiality of the non-public service media. My experience is that the emergence of different alternative media outside the government-owned media offering provides more democratic and comprehensive news coverage than if we were to have a concentration on public service. I am a little surprised and concerned about the discussion. I do not believe that the constitutional protection of public services would be able to address the problem raised by Niclas Malmberg.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-921	Mr President, I would like to I am puzzled by Mrs Annicka's speech, which is not at all about the reasoning that I am promoting. I do not doubt in any way the daily press or other free and independent media. I am happy to lean against the confidence barometer that is produced every year. Here are the public service companies at the top. 70 per cent of the country's inhabitants have confidence in Swedish Radio and trust what is said there. Swedish Television is almost there, at 66 percent. Happily, local media are on the rise, from 46 percent last year to 49 percent this year. This means that almost every other person trusts that what is in the local press is true. Of course, I would like to see even higher figures, but the fact that there is great confidence in both public services and the daily press is obvious. In fact, we have a situation in which a government that wants to take power over public services can do so quickly by appointing members of the Administrative Foundation who then appoints boards of the three broadcasters. By making it more difficult – and at least ensuring that there must be a choice between them – we cannot be put in a position where a government converts public service into government propaganda. I don't understand why the Moderates would be opposed to making such a takeover more difficult. It is not about there not being alternatives to public service. It is simply a matter of ensuring that public service is not transformed into public propaganda television.
i-UH5jA4iTRAWxzVSfisZA2t	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has dealt with more than 70 motions from the general exercise periods 2014/ 15 and 2015/ 16 on various types of election issues. The Committee's proposal for a Parliament decision is set out in two reports: Report 2015/ 16:KU13 on voting rights and electoral systems and Report 2015/ 16:KU14 on electoral law issues. The debate in this House is common to the two reports. There is, of course, much to discuss, but I will deal with three areas. The first area, Mr President, concerns the question of an electronic voting procedure. Three years ago, the election committee's final report E-voting and other election issues, SOU 2013:24, was presented, stating that there was a value in simplifying the exercise of democratic rights by voters. The Committee proposed a trial period starting in 2018 for voting in uncontrolled environments, i.e. via the internet at home. However, only a few weeks ago, the government announced that there would be no trial for the elections in 2018. As a reason for this, the cost issue was identified, but also the fact that there are difficulties with electoral secrecy and personal integrity. The criticism of the safety deficiencies in Estonia, which fully implement e‐voting, was raised as arguments, as well as the negative experiences from Norway in 2011. Of course, there must be very high demands on security and control procedures before e-voting is carried out. At the same time, the digitalisation process is today an essential part of social development. Today, a large proportion of the population is declared online, and the vast majority carry out their banking business digitally. In other areas, such as the media, the digitisation process has progressed rapidly. Anyone who believes that this will have no bearing on the voting process in the future is anchored in the society of the 20th century. There has also always been a sceptical attitude towards technological development. So was the attitude to, for example, the phonograph, when it came, to TV, computers, internet and smartphones – everything was terrible. What we can learn from technology development is that it is constantly moving forward. This also applies to safety aspects. The technical solutions that we are missing today in this area will be in place tomorrow. At the same time as the problems surrounding an electronic voting procedure are highlighted, we must bear in mind that our current system also has many shortcomings. In each election there are reports of citizens who have not been able to vote because their vote has already been registered. In the polling stations, the secret of the elections is limited by those entitled to vote picking ballot papers in front of an open curtain. There is a real risk of pressure in the current system as well. Similarly, there may be shortcomings in institutional voting or in polling stations where the electoral booths are not properly located. All systems have their flaws. But there is also a further dimension to why the issue of e-voting is important. As the younger generation is increasingly digitised, it will eventually become a matter of survival for the democratic system to be modernised. There is an imminent risk that voting participation will decrease in the future if the voting process feels out of time. For this reason, it would be good to continue to examine the conditions for starting experiments in the near future with at least electronic voting in polling stations. Mr President, I would like to The second area concerns the participation of foreign-Swedish voters. According to Swedes in the World Survey of Swedish Foreigners 2015, approximately 660,000 Swedes are resident abroad. Only a quarter of these were on the voting list in 2014, and out of this quarter, just over one fifth or 35,600 people chose to vote. Although it is difficult to say precisely how many of the foreign Swedes are actually entitled to vote, there is every reason to wonder why more foreign Swedes do not vote. The right to vote to Parliament and the European Parliament is linked to citizenship – not to the country of residence. An increasing proportion of Swedes also work, study and live abroad, many for longer periods. In order for the election results to reflect the will of the people, it is important to improve the conditions for an increase in the turnout of foreign Swedes. The criticism that has emerged has focused on the fact that it is difficult for foreign Swedes to find times when they can get from work to the embassy or consulate to vote. It is therefore of the utmost importance that opening hours be improved, so that opportunities for voting are increased. Increased opening hours in the evenings and weekends would be a step in the right direction. Another problem is the obligation for foreign Swedes to register for a further ten-year period after ten years on the electoral roll. This framework should be amended in order to give the foreign authorities a responsibility to actively inform foreign Swedes of this obligation to notify when it is time to renew. Furthermore, we also want to enable foreign Swedes to vote by letter from Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The third area is personal choice. I will be brief, given that the time for voting is approaching. A reinforced electoral act, preferably by completely removing the barriers or at least lowering them further, would increase the ties between elected representatives and voters. This would create better conditions for accountability. It would strengthen the role of elected representatives. Democracy would thus be greatly revitalised. Since the basic law investigation was not long ago, in 2008, these issues were dealt with and the blocking of the parliamentary elections was lowered, we have at this stage considered that an announcement is not relevant at the moment. But the opinion of the Alliance and the political orientation of the Alliance on this issue are clear: we want to lower the barriers, preferably by removing them completely. Mr President, I would like to I note that I was able to make the speech before the vote. In view of what I have just said, I would like to support the committee's proposal in report 2015/ 16:KU13 and reservation 2 in report 2015/ 16:KU14.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-947	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating two reports which we are merging into one dossier, the KU13 and the KU14. In these reports, the Swedish Democrats have reservations, and I would like to start by calling for the approval of reservation 2 of the KU13 on voting rights and citizenship. I would also like to ask for the approval of paragraph 1 of the KU14 on joint ballots and centralisation. Mr President, I would like to Today, when we are debating electoral law issues, there is reason to remind a little of why we are here at all. The Swedish Democrats are, as you know, a social-conservative party with a nationalist basic view. This means, among other things, that the party rests on a solid democratic basis. For us, then, it is self-evident that peoples' rule is central. It is equally obvious that all public power is exercised under the laws. But sometimes, Mr President, the laws need to be changed. We therefore believe that it should be self-evident that only those who have received Swedish citizenship have the right to decide the direction of this country in the future. The fact that you are given voting rights only because you happen to have been registered in Sweden for three consecutive years is not a reasonable justification. Citizenship deserves to have a higher status than it has today. By reserving the right to determine the political orientation of our country, both at local and national level, to the Swedish citizen, we also ensure that Sweden's future is determined by Swedish citizens. We know that there is regular election fraud in Sweden. All that is usually done by a non-democratic tail that always waves for the left parties in the Swedish parliament. A common cheating may be the disappearance of ballots, the placing of ballots from one party on top of another party's ballots. There are also examples of postmen throwing away ballot papers and electoral material in protest against not sympathizing with the content. Much of the electoral fraud could be addressed quite simply by the fact that all parties in the Swedish Parliament share a joint ballot. The opportunities that exist today to vote for whomever one wishes of a party's candidates can remain by, for example, opening the back of the ballot box to this particular issue. Mr President, I would like to Another way to prevent electoral fraud is, in our opinion, to introduce centralisation of name-marked ballots as well. Political parties today have the right to have party-marked ballots posted in all polling stations provided that they meet certain conditions of the electoral law. The same does not apply to ballot papers with pre-printed names, which means that all parties themselves may go around and post these ballots. In addition to the fact that this entails a great deal of unnecessary work, it also increases the risk of electoral fraud, as the parties themselves must be responsible for checking, during the early vote and election day, that the ballots remain and have not been thrown away or hidden, as has happened on several occasions. Since there is already a well-functioning system for the posting of party-marked ballots, it should not be a major difficulty to also arrange for the central printing of name-marked ballots.
i-HCRPq83LU4ceXvrCzCKgv2	Mr President, I would like to We are now discussing two reports, the KU13 on voting rights, electoral systems and more, and the KU14 on electoral law issues. Both are based on exercise from the general exercise time. With regard to the issues raised in the KU14, I share the committee's assessments. These are important issues discussed in the report, but much of this has also been dealt with in the past by other investigations, in proposals and so on. Much has already been done. I agree with the positions taken by the committee. I will dwell on the KU13 and, above all, on issues relating to voting rights. There, the Left Party has reservations. I am of course in favour of both reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation No 3. The first reservation we have is about voting age. There's a lot of exercise about that. Some athletes want us to introduce trials of voting rights from the age of 16. It is also an issue that has been discussed in connection with the democracy inquiry's proposal that such attempts should be made. We do not share that view. The Left Party believes that it is important that voting rights and the age of government are linked. The right to vote and to stand as a candidate should also be linked. On the other hand, we think that there should be reason to consider whether it is possible to introduce voting rights from the age of 18. There is a discussion about how it is easier to get people involved in election issues if they can also vote. As the electoral law today is designed, we are faced with the fact that not everyone in the same class can vote in the same election in the autumn. If you go third year in high school and there are discussions in school on election issues, some are not allowed to vote. We think it would be good if everyone could vote in that election. That is why we think it is good to vote in the year you turn 18. The second reservation concerns voting rights and citizenship. Prior to the vote, Patrick Reslow spoke about the need and importance to increase the turnout of foreign Swedes, when the right to vote follows citizenship and not residence. The Left Party thinks it is good if everyone who has the right to vote does so, but we would also think it would make sense if, in the Parliamentary elections, voting rights were increased in accordance with what applies to municipal and county elections. In order for people living permanently in the country to be able to influence the policies pursued, we believe that it should be the right to vote even to the Riksdag for those living in Sweden. That is what is affected by reservation No 3, which I have asked for.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-962	Mr President, I would like to The KU13 and KU14 reports deal with various proposals on changes in voting rights and electoral systems and on electoral law issues. Obviously, electoral rules and systems need to be changed to take account of societal changes, valuation shifts and technical changes, or due to obvious problems or inconveniences. There are also ongoing changes. For example, party symbols will be available on ballot papers from the 2018 elections, as suggested for many years. However, I would like to stress the importance of a balance between the need for change and a great deal of caution. The electoral system is not suitable for excessive experimentation, although it never has such good reasons. Among the things discussed in the report are a proposal on the need to guarantee the secret of the election of the visually impaired in the event of a person's vote. That is an urgent matter. It is important that all voters can be guaranteed the same rights and opportunities. We therefore propose that the matter be resolved as soon as possible, but at the latest before the 2022 elections. As far as electronic voting is concerned, it is easy to say that it belongs to the future and to get on the train. However, it is very important to ensure integrity and security when moving to a new system. Major problems have been discovered in other countries. Before we can guarantee full security, we shall have a very great deal of caution. To sum up, many of the issues dealt with will continue to be debated and investigated. For example, questions about the reduction of the voting age, the structure of the electoral system and the constituency division. Many of these issues probably need to be dealt with as a whole, as we need to be broadly parliamentary in agreement on the system of rules applied by democracy. I therefore support the committee's proposals in the KU13 and KU14 reports.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-967	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the KU13 and the KU14, two reports with over 70 motion requests dealing with a lot of questions about how to vote and who to vote. The great and important thing that the committee has agreed on is a call on the government to resolve the issue of how visually impaired people can vote by 2022 and still keep their electoral secret by the end of the 2022 elections. One issue that we have touched on a great deal in committee reports and which several others have touched on is the question of e-vote. We in the Green Party are strongly in favour of developing certain elements of direct democracy, such as citizens' initiatives and local referendums. When developed e-vote systems are developed, this kind of democratic effort will obviously be considerably simpler. At the same time, however, we have been very concerned about how to cope with the technical solutions and how to ensure that those solutions are sufficiently safe and controlled. In recent times, great leaks and evidence of foreign power surveillance have been brought to the attention. That you really should be able to vote under great security is very important. In Parliament we are currently planning a major celebration of democracy, a centenary. Mr President, this is a success. There will be a large number of activities for a long time. Although much of the planning for you is clear, I look forward to it. It's also made me think about this issue of female suffrage. I saw a few months ago the film Suffraguette, which is about the difficult road to female suffrage in England. The film is about an ordinary working woman and how pure coincidences make her radicalized and will participate in the violent grouping around Emmeline Pankhurst. It made me think about how women like her risked everything they had for my right to vote, educate me and even sit in parliament. In Sweden, the process of women's right to vote was more peaceful, but it took until 1921 before we got the right to vote, and then Sweden was last in the Nordic region. It is therefore 95 years since women were allowed to vote for the first time. That was also when you could get married without being out of date. 90 years ago, universities were still for men only. Women were allowed to attend paid girls' schools. The arguments of the leaders against female suffrage were that politics was too complicated for a woman's brain. There is now a discussion on how to broaden democracy for young people. It is very important, I think, because the average age of voters increases as we all get older. It also takes longer for young people to find permanent jobs and housing. Although young people have a great deal of commitment to social issues, they do not often have the opportunity to influence. Although policies and civil society in many places seek to strengthen young people's opportunities for participation, much more needs to be done. There are also many countries that allow younger people, such as 16-year-olds, to vote. Austria, Norway and Germany have conducted or have attempted a 16-year voting limit. Here in Sweden, 16-year-olds are allowed to vote in church elections. Now there are proposals from the Democracy Investigation on voting trials for 16-year-olds in municipal elections. What you have seen very clearly when you have carried out this type of attempt is that you get an increased turnout, because you start voting when there is pressure from school and from the family. It is of course also more exciting with social science when it is linked to being allowed to go and vote directly. I also believe that politics would be better. It should be remembered, as I said earlier, that the average age of those voting in Sweden is steadily rising. After the proposals of the Democracy Investigation have been referred to, I hope that it can come about that kind of proposal to allow municipalities that want to be experimental municipalities for reduced voting age to be so. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-977	Mr President, I would like to I apologise for missing my speech in the last debate because of the group meeting. In its reports on voting rights, electoral systems and electoral law, the Constitutional Committee deals with a large number of motions, approximately 65. From the report on voting rights and electoral systems, I would like to highlight our special opinion of the alliance parties on the election of persons. In this, we note that with the current electoral block, there is a possibility of t b li elected in parties with up to about 10% of voters. If the parties have a larger proportion of voters, it is rarely anyone who manages to get elected in those parties. We emphasise that the element of personal elections should be strengthened so that it is possible to be elected in the larger parties as well. From the report on electoral law, I would like to mention our alliance motion on faster re-election. It is, of course, unsatisfactory that, under the current rules, it will have to take six months after ordinary elections until a re-election can take place. We had such a re-election in Skåne, to Båstad City Council, after the last election. However, I can now conclude that the Government has set up an investigation to review the re-election procedure. I myself will have the opportunity to be involved in this investigation work, and it will be interesting. Questions about electronic voting in polling stations or through the Internet are highlighted in several exercises. Electronic voting in polling stations is common in many countries. You can then save on mailing ballots, and the voter can instead mark in an election booth which candidates they want to vote for. However, one major disadvantage of these systems is that voting can usually take place only on the election day, which, after all, severely restricts voting turnout. There have been attempts to vote via the Internet in several countries, including Norway, where, however, there are high costs and unfortunately a failure. Some countries, Estonia and South Korea, as I understand it, have conducted full-scale internet voting. We should see if those systems can be applied. However, we must be aware that it is difficult to ensure both the confidentiality of votes and the proper registration of votes. Mr President, I would like to In the KU, we have agreed on an announcement to the government on the secret of the personal votes of the visually impaired. I support this and the committee's proposal in the rest of the report.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-983	Mr President, I would like to The electoral secret is an absolutely crucial part of a democracy. If you do not have the electoral secret, you cannot vote as you wish without anyone being able to control it. That is not how democracy works. You can be subjected to pressure on how to vote. You can also feel an indirect pressure on how to vote even if no one has directly gone on and said: You should vote this or that. Perhaps you work in a certain position in an authority or somewhere else in society where there are those who think you should vote in a certain way. Or maybe you come from a family that thinks you should vote in a certain way. But the election secret guarantees that you can vote as you wish. In this country, where we have personal votes, you can also vote for any person you want without any pressure. No one can control this afterwards. But visually impaired people in Sweden lack that opportunity and the right to vote, in any case when they want to vote in person. Then they must be helped by someone who reads the names and helps to check who they want to vote for. Even if that person has no right to spread this further, there will still be no full-scale electoral secret for the visually impaired. We have re-used this from the Liberals. I am very pleased that the committee wants to support this and that everyone is in favour of it so that we can quickly find a solution. It will be an announcement to the government that will then be allowed to return, preferably as soon as possible if it is already possible to do so, in any case in a test business or so. It would be very good if it went to the elections in 2018, but by 2022 it should be in place. This should now be possible to solve technically without any major problems. There are a variety of possible solutions. We are not going to interfere in exactly which one is best from the Riksdag. But there are at least a number to choose from. I listened today to Swedish Radio when they reported on this proposal and decision. Ylva Henriksson was interviewed. She has never been allowed to vote with preserved electoral secrecy, not in any election. She was asked: ‘ What would it feel like if you could vote in 2022 with a completely preserved secret? She said: What freedom, what joy! I agree with her and support the committee's proposal.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-990	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Sundin showed through the exercise that we have now supported that it is worthwhile to exercise a in the Riksdag. It's maybe 95% that goes to rejection. But from time to time, a party like the Liberals can highlight what may appear to be a small question. But for those who are affected by it, it is a big issue. I am delighted with the Liberals and even more so with the visually impaired who, before 2022, will have a change in this relationship. This applies above all to passenger cruises. This leads me to the choice of persons and what we have said in committee. Since 1995, there has been the possibility of having a preference not only for which party you want to vote but also for which candidate you want to be your representative in the Riksdag. When a large part of the committee was in the United States on a study trip to South Carolina, we met Joe Wilson, a congressman of the old cut, who might say gave a face to being conservative. But he was in a good sense. I think he kissed Grandma on the cheek. He took the babies in his arms. He greeted young men and women and exchanged a few words with them about sports. He was engaged at all, and he knew everyone. From polling station to polling station we went in the tracks of Joe Wilson. It was fantastic to see: Your man in Congress. Your person in parliament. We need more of this. It should be easy to pick up the phone and knock on your shoulder and say: You do not forget on whose mission you are in Parliament, do you? You won't forget you're my representative, will you? You're my voice. The choice of person makes this possible. First of all, I'm going to admit it's hard. I have in every election where it has been possible to choose a person to do so. Competition is then not only between parties but very much within the parties. It's hard, but it's necessary for democracy. Democracy is given another aspect because, as in my case, one can not only choose to vote for the Christian Democrats but can say: I have confidence in Tuve Skånberg, and I want to send him. It not only gives me a mandate, it increases confidence and demands. It is a question of meeting the demands of those who have made a cross for my name. I am responsible for being on Facebook, for example, and reporting what I do and answering voters' questions. In the face of poverty, I am trying – and certainly all Members of Parliament - to live up to this. These issues could be pursued. It has gone from 8% to 5%, if applicable at all three or four political levels. It is important that the discussion continues. Now the alliance parties have not reserved. In all constitutional matters there is a gentlemen's agreement that we settle together across the block. It's one of those questions. We believe that the future will go in that direction, and we would like to push for further reflection on what can be done to increase the electoral element. It is certainly an effect that can be seen in the smaller parties, but it is not at all so easy – almost impossible – to have an impact in the Social Democrats and the Moderates. There are isolated examples, but it is very difficult. It should be equally important for a social democrat or a moderate voter, given that it is the same high figures, to feel that this is my husband or woman in this House – not just for us in the smaller parties so far. I would also like to raise another issue that is about following time, namely electronic voting. The committee has certainly not made an announcement. The committee has rejected motions on electronic voting. However, the committee has wordings that say that this is something that is on the way. It'll come sooner or later. We cannot oppose digitalisation. We do not say when or how, but a united committee – I would like to put it on the record for future readers – is clear that developments are progressing. We are not opposed to this development. We know that major democracies in the world, without mentioning them, are already using electronic voting. Sweden will do so. But we want it to be safe, so that no one is standing over their shoulder and watching someone else vote. There will be full confidence that my voice will not disappear into cyberspace. Mr President, I would like to Although I am in favour of rejecting 65 motions, I am in favour of the proposal in the committee's report.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1001	Mr President, I would like to In this report by the KU, which deals with constitutional issues, we are dealing with a large number of motions from the general period of exercise concerning central issues of our state, such as the Head of State, the number of members of parliament and quarantine rules for ministers. It is important to have a lively debate on the basic rules of our democracy. At the same time, it should be pointed out that not so long ago the parliamentary body of the Basic Law investigation carried out a major review of the form of government, our most important constitution. That review was completed in 2008, and the legislative amendments proposed by the investigation entered into force in 2011. This means that in the near future we have had an analysis of how our constitution should be designed, and it is important to safeguard it. For this reason, there is limited scope for further constitutional reviews and major constitutional reforms. The report of the basic law investigation was the result of a broad compromise between all parties who were then in Parliament. The then government then prepared a bill to implement the investigation's proposal. That bill was drawn up in close collaboration between the parties represented in the investigation. This is a good example of how we in Sweden deal with important issues about the rules of democracy. I see it as an important ambition that we should continue to strive for broad consensus on constitutional issues and constitutional issues. This report gives an example of how we, on the side of the alliance parties, live up to the ambition of concrete action. It is about the question of constitutional court and abstract norm review. The question of how to resolve conflicts between norms at different levels in the hierarchy of norms has for a long time been the subject of constitutional policy debate. The conflict is well known between, on the one hand, those who have stressed the principle of popular sovereignty and the rule of the government that the parliament is the main representative of the people and, on the other hand, those who have stressed that democracy has more elements than majority decisions. It is about the rule in the form of government that public power is exercised under the laws and that every body that exercises public power, including the parliament, needs controls and counterweights, what is called checks and balances in English. The conflict can be summed up as follows: Is it the Riksdag that will interpret the Constitution when it makes law, and then decide whether a particular law is compatible with, for example, the protection of rights and freedoms, or is it the courts and authorities who have to apply the law that will interpret the Constitution and decide whether the law is compatible with the protection of freedoms and rights? A change in the form of government, which entered into force in 2011, was repealed with the so-called "obviously obvious" act, which required courts and authorities to fail to apply a law or regulation only if the conflict with the higher norm, primarily the constitution, was evident. This change increased the scope for norm testing. Thus, the removal of the obvious elements was an important step towards giving courts greater access to standards and thereby strengthening the protection of civil liberties. What the courts in Sweden practice in these contexts is called concrete norm review. This means standard review, which is updated in a specific case to be examined by a court or, for that matter, an administrative authority. The result of such a standard examination may be that an unconstitutional provision is infringed in the individual case. In Sweden there are no possibilities for abstract norm testing. It means that it is alleged that a provision of the law or regulation is contrary to a superior standard without any connection to any particular case. It is not possible in Sweden to bring an action before a court and to request the Court to repeal a particular provision of a particular law on the ground that the provision is contrary to the Constitution. The closest abstract norm testing we get in the Swedish system is the Swedish Law Council's preliminary review of legislative proposals. There are several arguments in favour of allowing abstract norm testing, for example, that it would be useful for a review of the constitutionality of a provision to be carried out as quickly as possible and without waiting for an individual case to appear. It can also be argued that it is more legally certain for individual citizens that the trial is carried out on an abstract basis than that a citizen should have to pursue his case through all judicial authorities in order to bring about a precedent. Abstract norm review could be appropriately concentrated in a particular court, either a special constitutional court or, as would probably be more practical, in an already existing court, such as the Supreme Court. The four alliance parties support the idea that Sweden should move towards introducing abstract norm testing, but we have chosen not to make such a request in the Constitutional Committee this time. The reason is precisely that the basic law investigation in 2008 dealt with the issue of norm testing and then landed in, as I said earlier, to remove the obvious facts and thereby strengthen the mechanisms for concrete norm testing in Sweden. We respect the compromise reached and therefore do not call for Parliament to make an announcement to the government to investigate the introduction of abstract norm testing, even though we would probably have been able to obtain a majority in committee and in plenary for such a position. We do not think that constitutional changes should be drummed through with narrow majorities, but we respect the agreement reached in 2008. At the same time, however, we want to indicate in this way that we continue to have the principled view that abstract norm testing should be possible in Sweden and that we will continue to work in that direction. On the other hand, a question in which the Moderates have a reservation is a claim for the independence of the courts. We believe that this principle should be clarified. There is a constitutional provision which deals precisely with the independence of the courts: Chapter 11. Section 3 the form of government. More recently, however, the independence of the courts has proved to be more limited than the constitutional charter can give the impression. When Gotland District Court posted the court's petition lists on its website, it received an injunction from the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which considered that the procedure was contrary to the Personal Data Act. The Supreme Administrative Court eventually gave the Swedish Data Protection Authority a right and held that the independence of the courts does not include decisions taken by the Court in its own activities relating to the Court's administration. We therefore believe that there could be a discrepancy between the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and the wording of Chapter 11. Section 3 the form of government. We therefore believe that there is reason to examine whether the form of government needs to be clarified in this respect. In view of this, I support our reservation in this report. Finally, I would like to mention that in this report the KU has a unanimous proposal for an announcement that the Parliamentary Board should set up a parliamentary inquiry into Parliament's work on EU issues. EU work is an important part of Parliament's work, not least the various consultations that take place in different forms with the government. But now 20 years after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and in the light of the discussions taking place within the EU and between the Member States on strengthening the role of national parliaments in EU work, we see that a new review of Parliament's work on EU issues is justified. We therefore propose to set up such a review. In view of this, I support the proposal in the report and our reservation.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1020	Mr President, I would like to All public power in Sweden is based on the people. As you know, this is the portal to the Swedish form of government. It is with dismay that, more recently, I find myself increasingly seeing reason to follow up this statement with the logical follow-up question: What people then? When the craft of writing this in many respects the greatest and most essential of our laws was made in the early 70s, I can imagine that it did not even detract from our founding fathers that something so obviously would need to be defined. It is of course the Swedish people. After decades of never-ending mass immigration, an increasingly relaxing cultural relativism around about and what a Swedish people is and a membership of the EU, which constantly means that more and more of the Swedish decision-making is being put out to delegations to the representatives of other countries in Brussels and Strasbourg, it seems, unfortunately, to be becoming increasingly diffuse what and who constitutes this people from which all public power is to be based. Today, we have even had to defend the grounds of Swedish government in connection with motions and reservations from other parties to give non-Swedish citizens the right to vote in elections to the Riksdag and thus also the power to change the fundamental foundation of Swedish society, which is not least the form of government. This is not just astounding. It is directly offensive, Mr President. On the contrary, we need to stop behind and strengthen both self-image and self-determination, as well as the importance of Swedish citizenship and the cohesion between Swedes. A first small step, which is unfortunately quite tragic enough to even be needed, could be to do like some other European democracies, namely to supplement the Constitution with an initial description of which people, or demos, it is the basis of Swedish democracy. In our case, this description could, of course, begin with a story about Sweden as a country and the Swedes as a people and then be accompanied by a programme with the meaning that Sweden is the country of Swedes and that the Swedish cultural specificity, the Swedish language and Swedish history are crucial to the emergence of modern Sweden, just as modern Sweden is a natural continuation of Swedish history. It is thus with mixed feelings of both joy and a little sadness that I call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 7 in the KU16 on constitutional issues. Although, of course, we support all our reservations in the report in question, the practice requires that, on the vote, I should like to vote in favour of one more reservation. With so many wise and well thought-out movements from my party colleagues in this area, I actually had quite a problem with having to choose here. One of the motions would risk depriving the President of certain tasks for the benefit of the Head of State. That is why I do not have the courage to openly support it here and now, at least. On the other hand, I would like to call for reservation 10 to be approved for the constitutionalisation of the Swedish currency. We are also joining forces here with representatives of one of the government parties. I therefore look forward to the whole of the red-green bloc being included in the vote, so that we can resolve this urgent issue for the foreseeable future and so that the euro or any other currency cannot be introduced by a simple majority decision at some point in this House. In some analogy, the fact that something as foreign as EU membership is established and constitutionally protected in the form of government is also particularly unfortunate, especially when our own currency is not even that. I shall raise a completely different issue concerning the motion to investigate the appropriateness of introducing a constitutional court and the possibility of abstract norm testing. There I would have liked – or perhaps rather – to have expected – the Alliance to join in the proposal, as there would have been a majority in favour of such an announcement in at least the committee, in which there would have been indisputable and generally known. Sadly, however, we can only note and regret that once again the Alliance cannot, dares and wants to stand up for its own proposals when these proposals are actually in danger of going through with the support of the Swedish Democrats. Even more remarkable is this procedure, when all the athletes are members of the KU and almost seem to have had to look for excuses for not supporting their own exercise. In fact, the parliamentary situation and the current circumstances surrounding the basic law investigation were already known when they decided to present the proposal. Although the current concrete norm testing can be considered to be working well in general, we see that there may be a value in at least considering whether there should also be the possibility of abstract norm testing. If, then, this and other tasks were to be assigned to a specially established court or not, we would have liked to have seen a closer look than has been the case so far by setting up a joint investigation in this area. Among the other proposals and reservations contained in the report, I would like briefly to highlight those relating to the commodity of the royal house or not, given that I know that this particular issue raises some debate in society at large. I will do that by saying something that one might not hear a politician say often enough. I have – heard and astounded – taken the impression of others and changed my mind on this issue. I have never seen myself as a great royalist, and, like many others, I also questioned as young and unwise the democratic fact that someone could inherit his office. But in the past, I have come to the realization that the democratic aspect may not really hold up as an objection. First of all, the present royal house is, in fact, democratically elected by the representatives of the people, albeit a very long time ago, and for a very long term of office spanning both one and several male ages. But what I am most confident about is the undeniable fact that the Head of State is also subject to the same democratic principle of negative parliamentarism as the Prime Minister, for example. Both of these gentlemen, as it happens to be at the moment, must therefore act in such a way that they are at least tolerated by a majority of the elected representatives in Parliament. Otherwise, each of them can be deposed by the elected representatives. In fact, this fact is also confirmed by this very debate, in which some people are striving to achieve a parliamentary majority in order to abolish the monarchy, which in turn would be perfectly possible in the same way as a clearly inappropriate government can be set aside. In addition to the principled reasoning, I can see a practical advantage in the fact that there is at least one permanent constant in a society that is constantly changing. We also propose that the Head of State be given certain additional tasks in this regard. In almost all other democratic monarchies, it is the Head of State who formally leads the work of preparing legislation for the new Head of Government, which then – of course – Parliament has to take a position on. In any case, I cannot see that it would be more problematic or less democratic to do so than, as it is today, the outgoing President of a political bloc who, at the time of a change of government, will propose a prime minister among his political opponents – quite the opposite. That is not to say that I do not think that the Presidents who have so far been presented with this delicate task have done the same with anything other than the highest honour, but in principle I may have more objection to such a system than to allow someone who apparently still enjoys the confidence of a majority of the people to do the same. To conclude, I would like to congratulate Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sof Ia on a successful delivery, just as I congratulate everyone else I know in their joyous time, and of course welcome the new prince to the world.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1038	Mr President, I would like to So, as we have heard, we are discussing a report on constitutional issues and it deals with 90 different requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. It is a rather sprawling report, and it is lumped together in various forms of clusters. I was going to talk a little bit about some selected parts, and I start from the beginning in the paragraphs and go towards the end. The first part is about government. We heard Andreas Norlén say that we had a review of the Constitution quite recently, that we do not usually go in and change that way a little bit anyway and that there was still a review quite just now. That review did not discuss the issue of government. I think it's time we did it for real. The last major review in which the issue was involved took place in 1974, when we got the constitution we have now. It was then a serious discussion about government, and that is a while ago. I think that there is reason to actually make a proper review of the issue. It is out of time to have a monarch as the highest manager in the Swedish system. We have a system in which we elect representatives of the Riksdag but where the Head of State is an inherited office. For the Left Party, it is a very strange order. It is also a strange order that the person who is head of state – it is the king – has full immunity. It should be the same as for Members of Parliament, for example, that is to say, a limited immunity which applies from the point of view of what is being done in office. If the Head of State – the King – is not in place and there is someone else who performs his duties regarding limited immunity, but for himself immunity is completely unlimited. We also think that something should be done about this. I am not going to support all our reservations, but I am in favour of reservation 2. It is about reviewing and investigating how we can move from monarchy to full parliamentary governance. There are some other parts I would like to comment on. This is, for example, the issue of quarantine rules. There, the Left Party has a motion to conduct an investigation and to review the possibility of the introduction of quarantine for state councils and certain senior officials. It can be done in slightly different ways, but we will review this so that it is not possible to jump in any case between high political missions where you have a lot of transparency in, for example, different company conditions. It is therefore a question of going from political missions to other missions, where the missions can affect each other in both directions. This is particularly true of those who had political mandates, such as sitting in the government, being secretaries of state or other senior officials. There we should be able to look further at quarantine rules. We have exercised this before, and we have had reservations. In this case, however, we do not have a reservation, but we are calling for our own motion to be rejected. That's because things are actually going on. There are studies on the subject, and we agree in committee that this is important to look at. However, we are not making any announcements at this point, and that is perfectly all right with me. I think it is good that these investigations are going on, and it is perfectly all right that we reject the motion. It has become redundant since the last time. In fact, after the exercise was written, the work that is now under way has begun. So I am very pleased with that. We also have a reservation on public ownership, and that is an issue we have raised before. There is strong protection for personal, private property rights in the constitutions, but things that are owned together are very easy to get rid of. After an election result where there has been a new majority, for example in a municipality or county council, you can sell out jointly owned property with a vote's overweight. It's a decision that actually makes a pretty big intervention in something that might have been built up for a long time. Building up businesses and assets in a municipality or county council, or in the state for that matter, is something that goes on for a long time. That it should then be sold out with a single voice's overweight we think is not really good. We think that we need to look at it differently and create stronger protection for jointly owned property. That is why we believe that an investigation should be carried out and how it can be incorporated into the Constitution. Otherwise, I agree with the committee's position and call for their approval, with the exception of the reservations we have. However, I only ask for the approval of reservation No 2.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1046	Mr President, I would like to It's hard to master your line finger when Mia Sydow Mölleby wants to introduce republic. The arguments are reasonably well-spoken, but I still think that they may deserve the attention of the House for a few more minutes at least. As Mia Sydow Mölleby rightly said, the investigation leading up to the 1974 form of government was the last time we looked at the foundations of government. It was also Gustaf VI Adolf who signed the government decision to set up that investigation, where the abolition of the monarchy was an opportunity. Then the political system landed in a democratic way in a compromise that preserved the monarchy, but the monarch was given only representative functions. You can discuss whether it was good or not; I think it was an excellent compromise in a good Swedish spirit. The SOM Institute's latest survey, presented only in the days, shows increased support and confidence in the monarchy. It is very pleasing and well-deserved, I would say. Is it out of time with monarchy? No, I don't think so. We have a variety of public offices in Sweden, and they are appointed in a variety of ways. The Parliament is appointed by the people, and the Prime Minister is appointed by the Riksdag. The ministers are appointed by the Prime Minister, and senior officials are appointed by the Government. The Head of State inherits his office. Each of these methods can be justified on a pragmatic basis. The Head of State shall be a collective national symbol, and it is therefore appropriate that that appointment should not take place through a political process. We do not vote on what the Swedish flag should look like every four years, and it is similar with the Head of State. If the Head of State is to be a collective symbol, that trust does not need to be tested every four years.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1050	Mr President, I would like to We simply feel differently about this. It was 42 years ago, and I think it was a long time ago. I think it is time to look at this again. I think it's out of time, regardless of which king signed various investigations and gave different assignments. I think it is time to investigate this. I can imagine that people have confidence in people, but the question is whether it is a reasonable way to appoint the Head of State. The head of state is appointed by the fastest sperm. I don't think that's a fair way. There is talk of a collecting symbol. Yes, for all who are monarchists, but not for those of us who are Republicans. To me, a king is not a collecting symbol. I think there's a reason to investigate this. Sometimes the Riksdag takes decisions that a majority of the people might not really want, because the Riksdag has a mission to make a kind of mark. You can also be standard-forming as a parliament. We have, for example, decided here to abolish the childhood agenda. People thought it was crazy. Yet the Riksdag made such a decision. Today, everyone thinks it is absolutely obvious that you should not beat your young people. I find it hard to understand why you can't even look at how this could happen. I think it's out of time. We think differently.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1057	Mr President, I would like to The one-chamber Kingdom Day was introduced before we introduced the 1974 form of government. Does Mia Sydow Mölleby think that we should consider re-establishing the two-chamber parliament? It is with Mia Sydow Mölleby's measurements for a very long time since we introduced one-chamber Kingdom Day. The contract law came into force in 1915 and is still in force. Shouldn't we be looking at that? It must, of course, be ancient, even if, in all experience, it works reasonably well to regulate contractual relations. And the examples can be multiplied. The Swedish legal order is the result of a process that has been going on through centuries. Sten has been added to stone, and some pieces have been removed and added. We have reformed to preserve, to quote Edmund Burke, and that is well and good. Then the question of trust is about trust in a person – yes, absolutely. It is clear that confidence in the Head of State, the King, and in the monarchy is about a combination of confidence in the office as such and confidence in the individual who holds the office. Christian Dahlgren, columnist in Östgöta Correspondent at home in Östergötland, is a republican and writes: Should we still cheer on the castle? Of course. We, as Republicans, do not cheer for the monarchy. We cheer for Carl XVI Gustaf. It's not the expression of hypocritical surreptitious romanticism. No matter what you think, it is a civilized and good manners to always lift the hat for the Head of State. And so it is. He symbolizes Sweden in a way that I would say an elected president could never do. But it is clear that his confidence is based on his exercising his office in a trustful way. If that does not happen, the discussion can come back.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1062	Mr President, I would like to I find it difficult to comment on what individuals have said in Östergötland. I can say that I also cheer at the waltz, but only three times, and I cheer for the spring. I did not understand the reasoning that I should think we should have a two-chamber holiday because it was before the 1974 constitution. No, I think it is a good thing that we are having a one-chamber holiday, but I think it is a bad thing that we have not gone further and modernised the state system as well. That is why I think we should review our state, and that is why I think we should get rid of the monarchy as a system. Happy to cheer for the spring three times!
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1065	Mr President, I would like to What we just listened to was one of the best things in Swedish democracy. It is the Constitutional Committee that is debating, and it is about broad agreement on the Constitution and constitutional issues. Perhaps we have views that may not be fully in line with those of the majority. Nevertheless, we accept that this is a constitution, and we do not change it in any way. There's a gentlemen's agreement, yes, more than that. There is an agreement that we do not change the constitutions by less than that there has been a very long time or that something substantially different has been added. This means that the Torekov agreement, which has more than 40 years on its neck, is very active and very much alive. Then it is a bit ironic that Mia Sydow Mölleby once again does the king the service that at the next vote he gets the political mandate to be elected by the Swedish parliament when she gets through her vote. I dare to predict that she will lose and that the majority will win. The King has thus been confirmed and democratically elected. Otherwise Mia Sydow Mölleby would have won, and in time he would have been deposed. That is not the case, however, and it will not be the case at the next vote. Now I want to stop at two rather difficult words. Anyone who listens to this debate by chance would do well to poke their ears, for these words are important. One is abstract norm testing and the other is subsidiarity. Let's take abstract standard testing first. Abstract is the opposite of concrete. This means that when you try a law you do not take a case that is clearly concrete, a person who has broken a law and must be tried against a concrete law, i.e. after it has become a case. Instead, one looks at a law and sees whether it is in principle compatible with the Constitution in this case or not. It's abstract norm testing. So Norm is the law. A majority in the Riksdag believes that this is a good idea, that one should test a law against the constitutions to see if it is waterproof. This would be done by someone other than the political assembly. It should be like a constitutional court or similar body. One could, for example, use the Law Council and expand with the possibility of abstract review. What's the beauty of that? Well, there is a law that stands above political decisions, which can swing, that we give the Constitution the status that a new law in the legal sense must not be in opposition to a law that is to be adopted or has recently been adopted, regardless of whether it has been tested in court or not. But as we heard earlier, we have the agreement that one block does not run over the other in constitutional or constitutional matters. However, we are sending a clear signal that we could have done so. There is a majority in favour of it, and this is a good idea that is used in democracies such as Germany and the United States and is of enormous benefit to a constitutional court. How this would be done if it were to be called a constitutional court leaving the special opinion open, but it should be examined in an investigation. We think so, but we are not calling for it, but we have only one specific opinion. And we ask the House to note that we could have a reservation, but we wait until there is a broad cross-block majority at least to look at it. How long we wait, I don't know. Then there is the second difficult word: subsidiarity. It has happened that I have been apostrophated and sought out by people who say: Only because the Christian Democrats are so fond of the Constitutional Court do I vote for you. It's true! There are those. Then one can say that we must be political animals. But they feel that it is so important that something is above political decisions and that it is the constitution that is the norm that new laws should be tested against. That is also true of subsidiarity. It's a difficult word. It could be translated by making decisions at the lowest effective level, not at the lowest level, because then all decisions would be made at home around the kitchen table, which is good in itself for the decisions that can be made at the kitchen table level. But there are so many decisions that need to come up at municipal, regional and county level, at national level in parliament or even in the EU and in some cases to be examined by the UN. What is the principle of subsidiarity? Well, it is a work tool, a tool in political work as well. That is something that has become more and more evident at European level, and we are pleased about that. The Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish constitution would also be subject to the principle of subsidiarity. I do not support that reservation, but you can note that it is something that the Christian Democrats bring into the political debate. This also means that the higher level has the burden of proof when you want to take over a decision. Let us say that the municipalities are not taking on a commitment and Parliament wants to go in and take over that task from the municipalities. Then the burden of proof lies at the higher level in order to lift municipal self-determination in this respect. It is therefore a way of regulating where decisions should best be taken. Mr President, I would like to I have only dealt briefly with a few of the important issues. The most important question now, however, is to congratulate the new prince. We are delighted, and at the next vote we will note, Mia Sydow Mölleby, that the King is democratically elected by the Swedish Parliament.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1078	Mr President, I would like to Emanuel Öz will then take up the EU-related issues in the debate, which will lead us unanimously to announce that Parliament should set up an investigation into EU management in Parliament. I would like to refer to the speeches that have been made on the constitutional court and the review of standards. We very much appreciate the words that have been said by the chair of the committee chairman and by other Members that the compromise on constitutional issues reached under the leadership of the late Governor Per Unckel is valid until further notice. Prerequisites for possible changes, that there would have been something significantly different that was not known, are not deemed to exist in that negotiation agreement. We are very much in favour of this and, of course, we have the same aspirations. Those of us who visited Brazil with the Constitutional Committee some time ago were struck by the fact that it is a failure of that society that it is not able to make constitutional changes over a not quite unclear but still a block border and thus create a connection around the crucial conditions for a democratic society. I would like to address the issues of substance that are affected both in motions and in the specific opinions that have been put forward. From the point of view of the Social Democrats, we are critical of the entire presentation of the Constitutional Court and of abstract law enforcement. However, it is important to put this into the context of how judicial control and political parliamentary control interact in government. There has been a lot of significant progress here. As a youth, I myself was critical of the development of law enforcement and so on. However, I believe that what has happened and which is important to our state is that Sweden is a member of the Council of Europe and recognises the status of the Convention on Human Rights that it is actually included as a constitutional document. We believe that it is not permitted for Parliament to introduce legislation that is contrary to the Convention. When we read the judgments of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, it is quite striking how, on the basis of the Convention and other side-arranged conventions, a balance is sought between the Member States' own constitutional regulation and what applies – not because it is necessarily Europe but because the content of the Convention is so important in the regulation of human rights, democracy and what is termed the rule of law in the United Kingdom. To some extent, the same can be said of the Court of Justice of Luxembourg, the European Court of Justice. It also judges in a way that is important to us. However, it undeniably puts many times the emphasis on the future existence and development of the European Union. The idea here is that important values should be secured in the institutions in the European state territories. The existence of these institutions has enabled Swedish courts to exercise a law review law, as has been the case since the 1980s onwards. I myself would have remained critical if we had not had the two European courts over a Swedish judiciary. It is now quite balanced in the right to concrete judicial review that applies to both the ordinary courts and the administrative courts. This also applies formally, although rarely, to the ability of the authorities to override a standard if they consider it to be contrary to a superior standard. Without the European legal order and the two courts, it would be more doubtful for us to go to court in the first place because it is an infringement of election results and parliamentary representation. This makes us happy with how far we have reached in the current system, and we advise against moving forward with a constitutional court alongside or parallel to the two highest courts and the underlying courts we have. We are pleased with how the Law Council works. We also believe that the constitutional committee's review of the ministers, post-examination, is a valuable element. We strive for this review to be so comprehensive and impartial that it gains respect in the judicial control system. We are very much in favour of the fact that we are not today faced with a concrete request from the Alliance or the Swedish Democrats in these motions. However, we would like to take this opportunity to discourage further developments in the direction pursued by the exercisers. I conclude by saying that the European component of Sweden's constitutional life is extremely important and in many respects positive. It contributes in its own way to ensuring that we do not have difficult conflicts between the political-parliamentary part and the legal part of our constitutional life. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in report No 16.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1093	Mr President, I would like to It is amazing to be on the Constitutional Committee. The whole process of producing this report has been an incredibly interesting one, as I am sure those who have listened to parts of this debate have understood. It is the KU16 we are debating, on constitutional issues. It deals with some ninety motions from general exercise time in 2014 and 2015. It has been a lengthy, instructive and constructive process that we have been working on to prepare this report. In this context, I would like to thank in particular our Bureau, both Andreas Norlén and Björn von Sydow, who have done a great job of holding together and piloting this process that has been going on since last spring. It started with us starting to produce a report, but then we decided that we would probably let it rest a little. We have had an interesting seminar with constitutional experts who have given their views on several of the issues raised in the report. This applies not least to the question of the constitutional court. Although all the motions in the report will be rejected, we agree to set up a parliamentary committee to investigate Parliament's work on EU issues. There are many changes taking place at EU level, but there is also every reason for Parliament itself to regularly review and improve the work between the government and the EU, between the government and parliament and between Parliament and the EU. This very year we have had exceptionally many KU notifications in the EU area, something that raises the issue a lot. I also intend to raise the issue of quarantine rules and other rules for ministers, something that the Left Party's Mia Sydow Mölleby and two of my environmental colleagues have exercised about. There has been a long debate in the media about the loss of credibility for politicians if you are allowed to move to the private sector immediately after you have been in the Government Office as Minister or Secretary of State and perhaps negotiated an agreement or otherwise dealt with a matter politically. The OECD has noted that most Member States have introduced this type of regulation in order to avoid situations of conflict of interest associated with the transition from policy to business. The Riksbank already has such a clause. A few months ago, the government started work to have an investigator review whether there is a need to introduce special rules for ministers and state secretaries when they move to another position. The mission should be completed by the end of the year. I hope that this will lead to fewer conflicts of interest and that confidence in the state administration will not continue to be damaged when the Minister or State Secretary has completed his task and moves to other positions. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-7NPU2vKed8Z3S3pM9pbHHi	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee's report deals with constitutional issues in the nineties, from both 2014 and 2015. Agneta Börjesson gave a good background to KU's work on the report, which has been going on for a long time. We agree in committee on an announcement to the Riksdag Board to set up a parliamentary committee to investigate Parliament's work on EU issues. Among other things, it is a question of how Parliament should react to developments within the EU with a strengthened role for the national parliaments. As far as the motions are concerned, the KU's proposal is that they all be rejected. Many motions are from the members of the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, who want to change the current rules on how the country should be governed. A great deal of exercise is rejected on the grounds that the issues raised in the motions are already being investigated. One such issue is the motions on the memorial year of universal suffrage and the breakthrough of democracy in Sweden. I myself am pleased to be a member of the parliamentary jubilee committee which, under the chairman's leadership, is already working on the 100th anniversary of the introduction of democracy, which we intend to implement between 17 December 2018 and January 2022. To Mia Sydow Mölleby I would like to say: On election day on April 30, I will cheer both for our King Carl XVI Gustaf and for spring. Mr President, I would like to I call for the motion in the Constitutional Committee's report to be approved without any reservation.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1105	Mr President, I would like to The KU16 addresses the issue of the investigation of the Swedish Parliament's EU work. Andreas Norlén, President of the KU, briefly mentioned this, and Björn von Sydow also mentioned that I should mention it. I will only dwell on this issue. The fact is that Sweden's membership of the EU means that the Riksdag has transferred part of its decision-making rights to the EU institutions. The Government represents Sweden in the EU but must inform and anchor its actions in the EU with the Riksdag. The idea is that the Riksdag, as the main representative of the people, should have influence over the positions that Sweden should have in the EU. This also means that the Riksdag should have a real opportunity to influence the direction of politics in advance and not only the right to check what the government has done afterwards. The starting point for this collaboration between Parliament and the Government is that Sweden's interest in the EU should be met in the best possible way. It is equally clear that it is the government's responsibility to carry out the EU's work. Therefore, the mandate obtained from the EU Board does not have any binding effect on the government or, for that matter, the Parliament as an institution. The Government is expected to comply with the Parliament's mandate but acts in the manner it considers that the hearing requires and then defends this before the Riksdag. The Riksdag then has to assess the actual actions of the Government, taking into account the mandate but also all other relevant aspects. While the division of responsibility in principle is clear, the limited written regulation in the form of government and the parliamentary order, together with a now rather long series of opinions from the Constitutional Committee, can make it difficult to know for sure what obligations the government has towards the Riksdag and which body in the Riksdag should be contacted. There is therefore a need to clarify how the work should be designed to ensure that Sweden has an optimal influence in the EU for an EU policy that is anchored in the Riksdag in the way that our governance requires. We should avoid working methods that allow Sweden to intervene in the negotiation procedures in the EU in a way that our partners perceive as unnecessarily extensive, without giving rise to any increase in Sweden's real influence. Working methods should be sought which, on the basis of the common interest and the responsibility that Sweden can have the greatest possible influence, are as adapted as possible to a common understanding of how the EU's decision-making processes actually work in the complex negotiating environment with, for example, the Commission or the Council. Mr President, I would like to Parliament's work on EU issues has been developed several times since its entry in 1995. Let me give you just a few examples. For example, a number of changes were made to the Parliamentary Order in 2007 in order to highlight the responsibilities of the committees in the EU's work and to ensure that Parliament can enter early into the decision-making process. Among other things, the amendments require committees to examine certain EU documents and the committees to request consultations with the government on EU issues. Moreover, the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force in December 2009 with new provisions on the role of national parliaments. For this reason, provisions were introduced in the Parliamentary Order concerning, among other things, subsidiarity reviews of proposals for EU legislation and the participation of the Riksdag in Treaty amendments. In addition, there is interparliamentary cooperation between national parliaments in the EU context. There are also ongoing discussions on how national parliaments' cooperation and tools to influence the EU's decision-making process can be strengthened, something that Parliament has not really taken a position on. Furthermore, the European Commission has raised the issue of the role of national parliaments and has a declared ambition of strengthening dialogue between parliaments and the Commission, as a result of the so-called Barroso initiative. National parliaments participate in this dialogue to varying degrees, depending on different national circumstances. With us, Mr President, it is the government that conducts the dialogue with the Commission but is accountable to Parliament. Here, in a previous report, the KU has shown that it is important that parliaments such as Parliament are not disadvantaged by this approach. For Sweden, therefore, the relationship between the Government and the Riksdag in dealing with EU issues is of great importance. It takes the form of an information and consultation obligation for the government, among other things. This obligation is generally stated in the form of government and has been regulated in more detail in the parliamentary order. At present, the conditions are such that the government will deliberate with the committees on the issues relating to work in the EU that the committees decide. In addition, the Government shall consult the Board for meetings and decisions of the European Council. The Government shall also inform the EU Board of matters to be decided by the Council of the European Union and shall consult the Board on the conduct of negotiations in the Council with a view to the decisions of the Council. Mr President, I would like to The last parliamentary inquiry to review Parliament's work on EU issues was conducted ten years ago, and it is about time these issues were reviewed now, to ensure that Parliament has the best possible conditions to fulfil its tasks. Issues of interest are, above all, whether EU work in the Riksdag is conducted in the way it was intended and whether the Riksdag has the potential to influence the policy pursued at EU level. I would like to take a few examples, Mr President. However, I spare you two minutes by pointing out that the report mentions several issues that should be the subject of investigation. These are important issues. Overall, the Constitutional Committee believes that the Riksdag Board should set up a parliamentary committee to investigate Parliament's work on EU issues, including how the Riksdag should and can relate to developments within the EU with a strengthened role for national parliaments. The Constitutional Committee therefore proposes, using its right of initiative under Chapter 9. 16 § RO that the Riksdag agrees with what the committee now says and announces this to the Riksdag Board. In the light of the above, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1119	Mr President, I would like to In fact, we know two things about the movements that have been made to dismantle the inheritance monarchy. One is a motion will be rejected tomorrow. The second is that the inheritance monarchy will be phased out in the long term – it is only a matter of time. There are simply no intellectually sustainable arguments for maintaining, within the framework of an otherwise democratic system, a constitution that is contrary to fundamental democratic principles, such as freedom of religion and the equal value of all people. However, the fact that we will not take a decision to phase out the inheritance monarchy during this term of office has primarily to do with the fact that these are fundamental issues while, of course, the policy focuses on the urgent problems that need to be dealt with quickly here and now. I am thinking not least of an issue such as climate change. We cannot wait there, but we must act there now. Inheritance monarchy is a matter of principle. We can phase out or postpone the issue on the future. Nevertheless, intellectually honest arguments cannot be made in favour of maintaining a constitution that is contrary to fundamental democratic principles. We can look at the arguments put forward. The Torekov compromise has been highlighted. It is a bit ironic when the Christian Democrats say they want to protect political agreements. After all, the Christian Democrats could not even stand by the December agreement for six months. After six months, the Christian Democrats said no and unilaterally left the political agreement. I myself believe that political agreements should, of course, be held. Political agreements should be maintained as a party. But there is a longer time limit. It is now over 40 years since the Torekov compromise was concluded. No MPs during the current term of office were active politicians at the time. Three of the parliamentary parties were not even represented in the parliament at the time. Of course, as the representative of a party that did not exist then and was not part of the Torekov compromise, I do not need to defend it, but I can put forward other positions. Nevertheless, the Torekov compromise was good when it met. It was as far as it could be then. Now is the time to take the next step. There has also been talk of safeguarding the Swedish cultural heritage. Then let me remind you that it is a wrong view of history. Inheritance monarchy was introduced by Gustav Vasa in the 16th century. Before that, Sweden was actually a valmonarchy. In the Middle Ages we could choose king in Sweden, albeit a very limited group of men chose king, but the choice was there anyway. If you want to protect a Swedish cultural heritage, it is no problem to turn your back on the heritage monarchy. However, we should of course cherish our castles, preserve them and gladly make them even more accessible to the public. The democratisation of the Constitution is by no means a vulgar revolution. Another argument that is usually highlighted, although I do not think I have heard in this debate, is that it would in some way be positive for Swedish exports that we have a monarchy. But there are no statistics showing such a connection, no statistics showing that monarchies are more prominent as exporting countries than republics. Europe's main and strongest economy is Germany. It's a republic. It is entirely different factors that determine whether a country succeeds in its exports. It is about the climate of innovation and what the education sector and research policy look like. There we will put our energies into continuing to be a prominent export nation. The monarchy has nothing to do with it. The Christian Democrats put forward a slight reverse argument that a rejection of the motions that have been put forward in some way would mean that the king could be regarded as elected by the Riksdag. That, of course, is wrong reasoning. The motions that have been made are not about the current Head of State. They are about which Head of State we will have in the future and how it will be appointed. What still makes this an interesting issue to go ahead with, to investigate what future government should look like, is that the best opportunity to change government is when a head of state chooses to resign. On that day Karl XVI Gustaf feels that he does not want or is able to sit on and fulfill his duties as king, it is reasonable that we have a new constitution in place. That is why, in the near future, we should begin to investigate the issue of what a future fully democratic constitution should look like. There has also been an argument that broad majority is required to make changes to the Constitution. That is an argument that I think is strong. That is why I will continue to work towards achieving a broad majority on this issue, too, so that we can abolish the inheritance monarchy in the future.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1130	Mr President, I would like to When a debater devotes his entire speech to the monarchy, it would be almost wrong for the president of the KU, monarchist Norlén, not to ask for a reply. There were a number of arguments that we heard. The monarchy would be contrary to fundamental democratic principles. That is, of course, all wrong. As far as the equal value of all people is concerned, I assume that Niclas Malmberg thinks that a post is inherited. Well, we have inheritance rights to a variety of things in society. But that does not mean disregarding the principle of equal value for all. Human rights and freedoms apply equally to all. Then the members of the royal house choose not to exercise their right to vote, for example, and they choose not to speak on day - to - day issues. However, there is no legal regulation that prohibits them from participating in the political debate. It is just that it would be difficult for them to maintain their roles in our democratic system if they did. With regard to freedom of religion, it is true that we now have a regulation which means that the Head of State must belong to a particular religion. This is, of course, an issue that can be discussed. But it has nothing to do with the monarchy as an institution. That can be changed without abolishing the monarchy, if you wish. But none of the members of the royal house have expressed such a desire, so the question of whether the Riksdag should devote reform effort to it can then be discussed. Are there any intellectual arguments for the monarchy? Yes, absolutely. A rather practical and pragmatic argument is to note that it is good that we have a head of state that is above party politics and political contradictions and that can be a uniting symbol for the whole of Sweden and all of us who live here. It is a value in itself, and I would say that it is a great value that the Swedish people appreciate and support. I think that the argument about intellectual arguments does not hold up, just as I do not think any other arguments hold up.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1136	Mr President, I would like to Agneta Börjesson has spoken about the whole report. I go up here in the speaker's chair as one of four athletes from different parties – the Green Party, the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Liberals. Representatives from our four parties have raised motions to set up an investigation that points to how we can replace the inheritance monarchy with a more democratic system. That is why I am limiting myself to that question. As to whether it is contrary to fundamental democratic principles, Andreas Norlén actually points out some of the principles in which we can clearly see that today's Constitution does not live up to what we say we want to support, such as freedom of religion. Another such procedure is that the heir to the throne does not have the right to marry whoever he wants. This, of course, is also contrary to what we otherwise refer to as fundamental principles. We usually talk in other contexts about honorary cultures when it comes to such systems and think that it is problematic. But here we do have a culture of honour inscribed in the Swedish Constitution. I do not think this is worthy of Swedish democracy.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1139	Mr President, I would like to It is a rather classic process of debate by the Republicans to bring out various small details that one considers to be gruesome in the structure of the monarchy. There is talk of freedom of religion and the question of marriage and so on. I would say that there are no fundamental arguments against the monarchy at all. You can, of course, reform the rule as to which religion the Head of State is to profess. It is possible to reform the provision on the possibility of the heir's marriage without changing the monarchy as an institution or the character of the monarchy. So that is using small details in the system to try to push the system as such. I would say that the fundamental arguments are precisely that the head of state in a monarchy can be a gathering symbol for the whole of Sweden and all of us who live here in a completely different way from a president or President who has been appointed through a political process. Of course, confidence in those in office with political power must be tested in one way or another, as is done with the head of state in France or the United States. However, the fact that Sweden's Head of State, which has only representative and ceremonial functions, would need to have confidence reviewed by the Riksdag or the people on a regular basis, is no logical reason for this. On the contrary, such a political process would make it difficult for a Head of State to have this very role as a collective figure. Speaking of the future predictions that we heard here from the debater, I believe that the King will remain longer than the Green Party will remain in Parliament. But I guess we'll see in the future who gets it right in his prediction. There are no statistics showing that the Green Party has contributed something good to Swedish politics, but I will not propose that the Green Party be dismantled for that.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1143	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say to Andreas Norlén that the various fundamental arguments put forward here are not small details. Andreas Norlén is waving away extremely important principles such as small details. At the same time, the most important error to correct here is that the king inherits his position. That is, of course, the most important thing to change in the Constitution, but the other pieces that I highlighted here are not small details. It is repeatedly stated here from various speakers that the king somehow represents the whole country and that the whole country can end up behind the present king because he has inherited his position. That is not the case. We are many Republicans who do not feel at all comfortable being represented by the king. A democratically elected person representing the country has quite different legitimacy, and that is the most important argument for abolishing the inheritance monarchy. If we look at how things have looked historically, the inheritance monarchy has worked extremely badly. Being inherited into that role makes it very difficult to function well in that role. It's been seen from the beginning. Gustav Vasa, whom I mentioned earlier in my speech, was the one who introduced the inheritance monarchy. Things went bad from the start. The eldest son, Erik XIV, carried out Sture's murders and had to be removed. Throughout history we have since seen the ravages of Gustav II Adolf and Karl XII. I would say with determination that a random person, anyone, had worked better in his role than these kings did because they had been raised into a role that did not work. Today's system does not have this absolute power of the monarch, and therefore it cannot go as wrong as it has done in history. Now only the ceremonial functions remain. We are pleased that the Torekov compromise came so far that only the ceremonial principles remain. Now is the time to take the next step.
i-ECCEdAbyydhrJq8qNRKDip	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal, paragraphs 1 to 5, and for reservation 3. The KU18 deals with motion requests that have been raised both this parliamentary year and the previous one. The committee rejects all claims except for three relating to the protection of employees in publicly funded private activities. This means that the committee proposes that the Riksdag, in an announcement, calls on the Government to speed up legislation on strengthening the protection of private employees in tax-funded welfare companies. The committee notes that the proposal on the subject announced in March of this year has not yet been submitted to Parliament. A united constitutional committee wants the Riksdag to press for the government to put this bill on the table as soon as possible. What can really be more appropriate than strengthening the protection of the press for a year when we celebrate the 250th anniversary of Sweden's proud Freedom of the Press Regulation! The freedom of communication, i.e. the right to communicate information and intelligence on any subject for publication in print and the constitutional protection of that right, should, as far as possible, be as strong for employees in private activities who are publicly funded as for employees in public service. It therefore considers a united constitutional committee and therefore approves, among other things, a motion in a moderate party motion by Anna Kinberg Batra. Mr President, I would like to The freedom of communication and its protection, along with the principle that anyone has the right to access public documents, are at the heart of the Swedish principle of public access. However, a growing lack of freedom of communication is, in line with the development of society, strictly confined to public activities. When a united KU now proposes to extend freedom of communication, it is an important step towards not only consolidating the principle of public access but also extending it. This is how we pay tribute to the Swedish openness of this anniversary of freedom of the press. In the KU18 there is also an alliance reservation that takes its starting point in today's threats, hatred and attacks against journalists and media houses. Here we want alliance parties to have an investigation that reviews the need for measures to better protect freedom of expression and freedom of expression and, by extension, also the ability of the journalist profession to attract young, enterprising, creative people in the future. The fact that journalists and media houses in Europe and Sweden are under pressure was reminded of the latest day when Reporters Without Borders published their annual index on the state of freedom of the press in the world. On this list Sweden backs three positions from last year, from fifth to eighth place. Views can be made on how the comparison between countries is made. However, this does not prevent there being cause for concern that Sweden is no longer among the highest ranking countries. The security and conditions of journalists and media editorials in order to be able to work – write and disclose – without the risk of threats and reprisals are crucial elements in every democratic country. Without the security of journalists and media houses, laws on freedom of expression, freedom of the press and public access will only be empty words on one piece of paper. If we in this country are to celebrate the 250 years of freedom of the press with pride, we need to take threats, hatred and attacks against journalists and media companies very seriously and to do something about these disgusting phenomena. It is precisely against this background that the alliance parties have put a reservation on better protection for journalists and media editorials. Last but not least, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the committee's position on incitement to transgender people. Under the alliance government, an investigation was launched into the extension of criminal law protection for trans-nationals. The investigator suggested that the protection should be strengthened and extended to threats and hatred also on the internet and that the protection of transgender persons should be included in the basic laws on freedom of expression and printing. As constitutional changes require two equally obedient decisions with parliamentary elections between them, the committee notes that there are good opportunities for the government to return to the Riksdag with a draft constitution that can be clubbed a first time before the 2018 elections. Mr President, I would like to We're looking forward to that club team.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1161	Mr President, I would like to Why do blondes often have bruises around their navels? Because blond guys aren't very smart either. Hi and hå, so incredibly offended I could choose to feel because there are always said stupid things about how stupid we blonde people are, just because we happen to have a certain hair color. And we shouldn't talk about how much it is driven by short-grown or incited to overweight people, or lawyers and politicians for that matter. Talk about fair trade to incite and make fun of! How much should we try to fragment, categorize and label each other to get a full list of what and which should be considered a little more protective than others? Of course, it can be argued that at least one's career is characterised by free choice. That may be true, to some extent. But if I had been able to choose a profession completely freely, I would have liked to be a hockey pro instead of a grey politician. Unfortunately, it turned out quite quickly that I happened to be born with almost total lack of talent for skating, and a lord's lot of other things. It's like I always say to my son: If it turns out that nothing else works, you must do as your old blonde father and become a politician. But that's not my point. Because even if a transgender person chooses to walk around in a stasis and a feather nest or if I urgently try to pursue a career for which I have no talent, we both deserve to be treated with the same human respect as everyone else. You can call it normal manners and common sense. It is above all this that we believe that Swedish legislation should offer adequate protection for. And it's supposed to be equal for everyone. The right way to go is not to try to rumble up more and more groups to be protected a little more than others. Then it is easy a bit as that everyone is equal, but that some are worth only a little more. On the contrary, the Discrimination Act should, for example, be so general that any form of discrimination, or unfair discrimination as I prefer to call it, is prohibited, regardless of the basis or circumstance of the individual as a person. If as a person I am threatened or slandered or if my honour and integrity are violated, there must of course be effective and dissuasive remedies to resort to. And it does, among other things, in the penal code. However, the legislation on incitement to ethnic groups is a departure and an anomaly in the Swedish legal order. To my knowledge, in all other cases of slander and the like, there is a plaintiff who feels that he has been struck and offended by the current outburst, before which the alleged responsible person is called to account. But would anyone express themselves inappropriately if, for example, Muslim gay women, it does not matter whether one of them feels uneasy or not? Nevertheless, the alleged responsible person may be charged with incitement to a group of people by a Christian heterosexual man who was not affected at all. Such a system seems more worthy of the old GDR, where, as is well known, one could be designated and condemned for questioning socialist utopia. For these reasons, for example, we are calling for the proposal to be rejected in paragraph 1, albeit with a different justification from that of the majority. However, we call for the approval of reservation 2, freedom of participation in preliminary investigations. However, I assume that my fellow committee member from the Christian Democrats, with whom we are therefore joining forces on this issue, will give a more detailed account of the details and circumstances. Instead, I would like to use the remainder of my speaking time to touch briefly on the alliance motion for greater protection for journalists and media editorials. Here, too, there could have been a basis for joint action. Only this morning, then, we were struck by the disturbing news that Sweden is losing its place in the international freedom of the press. And although I and many of my colleagues, not least some, may have views on and objections to the way media coverage is conducted, the existence of threats and violence is a way of trying to influence completely unacceptable and something that all democrats strongly reject. However, we find that the current exercise fails to address another problem and another cause of self-censorship, but then within the media corps itself. I am, of course, talking about the extremely narrow line of opinion that seems to be found in many media events. Consequence neutrality seems to be an exception. News is darkened or distorted so as not to risk favouring certain parties, and journalists who venture to try to deviate from normal order are quickly rolled into the fold again, using various more or less unsyst methods. If the exercise had only been a little more complete, and also aimed at a freer climate of debate in general, we would probably have been more inclined to support that reservation as well. But hopefully we will have reason to return to this next Parliamentary Session or at least the next parliamentary term.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1174	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee deals with 12 motions in this report on freedom of expression and press. The Constitutional Committee agrees on an announcement to the Government to speed up the preparation of a proposal for the protection of private employees in publicly funded activities. It is a proposal that I made in the KU four years ago and which the KU has also supported in the past. Through the announcement, the KU now wishes to emphasise that such a proposal should come to Parliament as soon as possible. It's about time. The Center Party is a member of the Alliance Movement for the Protection of Journalists and Media Affairs. We want to examine whether current protection is sufficient to safeguard freedom of expression and of the press. Unfortunately, a majority in the Constitutional Committee has proposed rejecting this motion, referring to work on an action plan. We have reserved for this proposal to be rejected. As mentioned earlier, it emerged on the morning news on television today that Sweden, which has previously been considered to be in a comparable position in terms of protection of freedom of expression and pressure, has fallen sharply in the international comparison. This is because there are now more and more pronounced threats to editorials and journalists in Sweden. The news item underlines the need for the measures proposed in our motion to prevent threats and violence against journalists and media editorials. The issues of freedom of the press and freedom of expression need to be raised, especially now, when we are celebrating the 250th anniversary of freedom of the press. Mr President, I would like to I commend our alliance reservation on the protection of journalists and media editorials.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1180	Mr President, I would like to 250 years ago, a Member of Parliament from old Kokkola in Finland, who then belonged to Sweden, passed a world-unique freedom of the press regulation. We were first and had the most far-reaching legislation in the world. This meant, among other things, that censorship was abolished in Sweden. No one would pre-test whether something could be published, but that requirement was removed. It was also this that led, more indirectly, to what we today call the principle of public access, where the starting point is that documents in Parliament and in public authorities are public. The MP Anders Chydenius was thrown out of Parliament shortly thereafter. He had the audacity to challenge the leadership once too much. Soon afterward, he was succeeded in getting rid of him, ironically, by breaking censorship. It had been abolished, or rather, the parliament had voted on it, but it had not yet entered into force. Chydenius published a writing in which he went hard on the party leadership, or whatever it was called then, and on the party's economic policy, and then one saw the chance to get rid of this troublesome man who had to go back to Finland. Eventually he came to Sweden again. I dare hardly say that Anders Chydenius is my greatest political role model. We thus have a very proud tradition in Sweden of protecting the free media and the principle of public access. The free media, of course, act as reviewers. As many others have mentioned here, today we were able to take note of the news from Reporters Without Borders that we have received a lower mark on freedom of the press. As I understood it, it was partly because the threats to journalists and media editorials in Sweden have increased in recent years, something that we highlighted in a hearing in the Constitutional Committee in the aftermath of the terrible attack on Charlie Hebdo. This risks leading to a new kind of censorship, but it is not the state that censors. It can easily become self-censorship if journalists know that if they write about, for example, a motorcycle gang, the journalist and the family are threatened. Media relations can feel the same if they write about Islamic organisations. Then it will be a self-censorship that I know journalists are doing everything they can to fight it, but it is of course completely human if you get hit. We from the Alliance think it is very important to take a holistic approach to this issue and look at what can be done and what can be improved to reduce the risk of being threatened. It may, of course, be law enforcement, but there may also be other things that lie more within the scope of the Constitutional Committee that deal with how to counteract this type of new type of censorship and reduce threats to journalists and media editorials. This is part of a motion that we have brought together with the bourgeois parties. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 3 and, in addition, for the committee's proposal in the report.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1188	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin my speech by calling for the approval of reservations 2 and 3 in the report. The Constitutional Committee is not least responsible for safeguarding our constitutions. Our parties have appointed us to sit on the Constitutional Committee precisely to keep that flag high. We agree on the constitutions, and they cannot be changed lightly. The most important part of our constitutions is the issues of freedom of the press and expression. It is a prerequisite for a democracy, and – as we heard from the previous speaker – we have a long and proud tradition backwards. The most important thing in this report is that we strengthen the protection of information. The Swedish Parliament agrees that the Government should speed up the preparation of the investigation into strengthening the protection of private employees in publicly funded activities, so that a bill can be submitted to the Riksdag as soon as possible, and we announce this to the Government. We do so in total agreement, and that is important. I would just like to mention that there are several parties who have exercised this, including the Christian Democrats. This is something we want to stand up for. To this we can add that in an alliance motion we want to further strengthen the protection of journalists and media editorials. In reservation 3 it is stated that the constitutional freedom of the press and expression is a prerequisite for the free formation of opinions. It is of great importance that media policy is clearly linked to the functioning of freedom of the press and expression, and we want to strengthen the protection of journalists and media editorials. Then the question is: Can one ever consider making any restriction or exception to freedom of communication? It's very delicate, but we have three index fingers that can be stuck up in the air where we say that this is something that isn't good. We heard the Swedish Democrats stick up their index finger and say: 'Just when it comes to preliminary investigations, one could look at that exception, and there is a special opinion from the Social Democrats saying that there must be very strong reasons for restricting freedom of communication, but one is not prepared to present any proposals now. It is unfortunate that information from ongoing investigations is leaked to the media and then used to create powerful and loose-numbering front pages and handbills. Perhaps there is also a discussion in other parties without us having to go into detail about it. Several of us have seen that here is a problem with police officers leaking from a preliminary investigation to get money. That is not acceptable. We need to stop this. Why? Don't we afford the police this money? That's not what's really bad – even if it's bad in itself – it's that it hurts the preliminary investigation. It's for the victims. As a result, a serious criminal cannot be prosecuted. A murderer can go free because the police coin what you find out. It's terrible. We can't have that. In reservation 2, the Christian Democrats suggest that at least an investigation should consider whether this possibility can be stopped. There is a right for everyone to provide normally classified information for publication in the media, but not in the case of preliminary investigations. We think that there should at least be a review of the protection of communications. I hope that this issue is taken forward in some way, so that we can put an end to this.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1198	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The committee has dealt with 13 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. The committee proposes an announcement to the government on the motion for a resolution on the protection of whistleblowers in publicly funded private activities. The Government should speed up the preparation of the report on strengthening the protection of private employees in publicly funded activities, so that a proposal can be submitted to the Riksdag as soon as possible. After eleven years as a nurse and fourteen years as a personal assistant in private care, this is a big step for me. I have always pointed out errors and shortcomings, and I have been fortunate to have a manager and an employer who have seen it as a strength, a strength that can be used to improve the business. But employers handle their employer's responsibilities very differently. I'm thinking about my old workmates. That 2016 has the right to be able to alert if there are errors should be self-evident. The committee also proposes that the committee rejects the other motions for resolutions, in particular with reference to the work in progress. There are three reservations and three specific opinions. The starting point of the investigation was that the disclosure protection of private employees in publicly funded activities should, as far as possible, be the same as for civil servants. However, individual activities in these areas, particularly health care, which have no public funding, are not covered by the law. The law is designed on the basis of the constitutionally regulated protection of public information and in principle provides the same protection as the current regulation for municipal companies. One disadvantage of limiting the strengthening of the protection of informants to health care, school and care is that there will be workers in the border country to these areas. However, the aim of the investigation was that the proposed law should be flexible and that it should be possible to extend or limit its scope in the future. The proposals are currently being prepared in the Government Office. The committee also rejects motions for exemptions from the freedom of information in preliminary investigations and police interventions. There, Mr S. has a special opinion, as Mr Tuve mentioned earlier. There is also an investigation into privacy and criminal protection. It focuses in particular on how social development and technological development have changed the possibilities for communication and the possibility of committing acts involving threats and violations. Freedom of expression can be attacked by people who do not dare to speak. Threats to journalists, debaters, opinion-formers and others may risk the threatened person refraining from speaking or participating in a public debate. There is therefore a strong public interest in people feeling confident in being able to communicate and communicate news and dare to participate in the public debate. We also have a media investigation. The proposals aim to promote the public's opportunities to take part in journalism characterised by diversity, comprehensive news communication, quality and deepening, regardless of where they live in Sweden. On 12 February last year, the Constitutional Committee held a hearing on the safety and working conditions of journalists and media editorials. There was also criticism; there is good legislation, but unfortunately it is not followed in the way that would be desirable. It has also come to my attention that newspaper publishers actually see that the legislation already exists, but believe that it must be used properly. In view of what has been said here in the speaker's chair, that Sweden has fallen from place five to place eight, I am concerned about the future. What worries me most is that it is in fact the self-censorship of journalists that gives us news that may not reflect reality. I also find it remarkable that we have leading parliamentary politicians who say that journalists are enemies of the nation. In the 2016 budget bill, the government announced an action plan to prevent threats to democratic dialogue. Work on developing an action plan is currently underway in the Government Office. Work is also under way within the Council of Europe and UNESCO to identify and prevent threats and violence against journalists. A report is also currently being prepared on privacy and criminal protection, which includes proposals for enhanced protection against online infringements. The committee believes that the ongoing work on an action plan and the preparation of the report on privacy and criminal protection should be postponed and is not prepared to propose any announcement on the basis of the motion. It is good that we in this committee can work together to bring about the improvements that are required of us when necessary.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1212	Mr President, I would like to I would like to propose that the Sku17 report be referred back to the Committee on Taxation because of technical problems and that the debate be taken when the matter comes back to the House. I am therefore abstaining from further debate.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1213	Mr President, I would like to This has been carefully prepared. However, I understand that all the parties agree that we should take the whole debate later, so I will do as the previous speaker and abstain from further debate.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1214	Mr President, I would like to We agree with Per Åsling's proposal, which is the chairman of the Committee on Taxation. I am also abstaining from further debate.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1215	Mr President, I would like to Not surprisingly, I do exactly the same.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1216	Mr President, I would like to It would be strange if we from the Social Democrats were to take a different view of this. We agree with Per Åsling's proposal to take the debate at a later date.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1217	Mr President, I would like to We stand behind all our travel experience, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 8. I'll start by saying a few words about exercise 2056, Open Source. The use of open source sources and open standards in public Sweden is now taking off. The direction is clearly identified through e.g. the E-Delegation, which in its work aims to ensure that public administration, as far as possible, builds its solutions on open standards, makes use of open source software and seeks solutions that gradually free management from the dependence of individual platforms and solutions. This would result in cost savings as well as better opportunities for service development, improvement of software reliability and also increase user influence. The biggest obstacle to transition is, as a rule, the convenience that exists when you are stuck in a large dependence on individual suppliers and licensing contracts where a transition is associated with a lot of work. Of course, such a change does not happen in a flash, but it is important to determine the direction in which you want to go and to make a position of principle that guides the use of open source sources and open standards. As far as motion 1821 is concerned, statistics in most areas of society are currently being kept to give us legislators adequate basis for decision-making. But when it comes to the statistical basis for financial assistance, there is improvement potential. A large part of the financial assistance – in everyday terms called supply support – goes to foreign born. There are statistics based on gender, age group and form of cohabitation. However, no detailed statistics on background or education are available for households receiving subsistence support, either for domestic or foreign born. Broader and more detailed statistics would give us a better opportunity to evaluate our policy decisions. It would also improve understanding of why some people, to a greater extent than others, end up in benefit dependency and which groups are most vulnerable. What is the educational background of those who get caught up in benefit dependency? What patterns can be seen among natives born in benefit dependency? Do we divide foreign born by country of origin, which regions are over-represented and why? These are questions that need better answers. One example that highlights the problem I am talking about is the two nearby municipalities Borlänge and Falun, which in many ways share the same labour market and the same housing market. In Borlänge, however, 46 per cent of financial aid goes to Swedish-borns, while in Falun the figure is 65 per cent. Have differences in local migration and integration policies affected the disbursement of financial assistance? Inadequate statistical evidence makes the question more difficult to answer. I would also like to touch briefly on exercise 3224, which is partly about the same thing, namely statistical data. In this case, however, it is the statistics of the Prison Service. According to their own statistics and a Rut report, almost a third of the country's inmates – i.e. prison – are foreign citizens. That's a high number. But if you look at those who have immigrated and gained Swedish citizenship, the share with foreign background would probably be even higher. Today, the Prison Service is prohibited by law from registering the original nationality of the inmates or if they have a different background from Swedish. In other words, it is not possible to take a closer look at the population of Swedish citizens, even though today, due to high migration rates, that group is increasingly heterogeneous. This also prevents people from understanding the development of society. Therefore, I would like the government to come back with a proposal that ensures that the Prison Service is allowed to conduct and is also given the task of conducting statistics also within the group of Swedish citizens. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of any political effort that will help us to understand reality better, whether in terms of the disbursement of financial aid, crime or unemployment. Reality is complex, and statistics give us deeper knowledge and therefore also better political decisions.
i-cba7ca4a1fd5012d-1230	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report. The government has an active policy of state administration, unlike the former bourgeois government, which was mostly concerned with tax cuts. In the 2016 budget bill, the Government notes that digitalisation is the single largest factor in change in our time and affects all parts of society. In addition to contributing to improved welfare, digitalisation has also contributed to driving growth in Sweden. The government states that there seems to be untapped potential in the public sector, despite the fact that Sweden has among the best conditions for digitalisation. Digitalisation is an important tool for improving the efficiency of public administration. Public authorities need to cooperate better across government boundaries in the area of eGovernment. I will list some examples of what the government has done and is doing. On 25 February 2016, the Swedish Financial Control Agency was tasked with monitoring the use of IT by the state authorities and how the authorities take advantage of the possibilities of digitalisation. On 29 October 2015, the Government decided to sign a letter of intent for digital renewal of public Sweden together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. On 1 March 2016, the Swedish Financial Control Agency presented its mission on financial solutions for common digital solutions. On 4 February 2016, the Government commissioned Statskontoret to map and analyse governance of government activities. Since 2014, the Swedish Financial Control Agency has had a mission to improve the efficiency of government administration in its regulatory letter. In 2016, the agency will disseminate good examples of efficiency, methods, working methods, digitalisation and governance and follow-up. The assignment will be carried out in collaboration with Statskontoret and will be reported to the Ministry of Finance on 9 December. In this area, the government is doing a lot. Mr President, I would like to Government authorities need to work more strategically to increase the supply and availability of open data. In the 2016 budget bill, the Government notes that there have been changes to the Act on the re-use of public administration documents that entered into force in 2015. These legislative changes oblige the authorities to publish lists of the types of documents they can usually publish electronically. There are 18 authorities that have been tasked with reporting on their work on accessibility of the documents. The government has started developing policy and has a closer dialogue with SKL. Vinnova has been tasked with managing the portal opendata.se. Our government is doing a lot when it comes to open data. This report is a motion report. There were proposals for open source. That is exactly what the EU is now working on. A single market strategy is being developed for proposals on innovation-friendly procurement, open data and such. As far as innovation procurement is concerned, we will adopt new legislation in this House this year. The government is also working on those issues. Mr President, I would like to In this report, we also propose an announcement to the government to relocate authorities. This is an important issue for us. It is important for the state to take responsibility for the whole of Sweden and for Sweden to stick together. People, towns and entire areas should not feel abandoned. At present, people around our country are experiencing the strong force of urbanisation. There are many activities that disappear from the locality. Some also happen in the suburbs where the service disappears. There is a lack of service – both social and commercial. From 2006 to 2014, there have been no major reforms in the relocation of public works. Statskontoret has now been commissioned by the Government to investigate how agencies can be located outside the Stockholm area. They shall propose indicative starting points for the continued localisation work of the authorities. The authorities are of course independent, but the state must take responsibility for the whole and take greater responsibility for the coordination of operations. There are some examples of relocations that have been good. It is not only parts of activities that can be relocated, but it can also be whole activities. One example is the State Service Centre, which is mainly located in Gävle and Östersund. They've been assigned to see if there are any more things they can do. There is a big difference in our country in the distribution when you look at the seat of the authorities. More than half of the country's authorities are located in Stockholm County. The share of government employees is 30 per cent. This can be compared to Västra Götaland where 4 per cent of the authorities have their seat and 14.2% of the state employees work there. The Skåne region has only 2 percent of the authorities and 10.7 percent of the state employees. The review of the location of state authorities is needed. These are very strange imbalances. There is, of course, another side of the coin. Relocating an authority is a decision of intervention which naturally brings concern and uncertainty to those who work in the agency. The risk is that competent employees will choose to quit and that processing times will be longer when the business will be built up in a completely different location. Therefore, the work should be carried out with care and seriosity. Lessons are available from previous relocations. One example is the Swedish Consumer Agency, which today has a well-functioning business in Karlstad. In the second wave, Mr President, there are actually cheaper cost of premises in the country. It is a fact that the level of education has been increased by the staff of authorities that have previously been relocated. The crucial reason why the government is committed to issues related to the location and relocation of government functions is that Sweden must stick together and that people, towns and entire areas should not feel abandoned. The authorities can be an addition to the local labour market throughout the country, not least by offering interesting career paths. They also contribute to regional dynamism and activity. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is based on a common idea of the wisdom of staying together. With this change of course in Swedish administrative policy, we are building on our common idea. Investing in trust is investing wisely for the future.
