i-d78c2c386ef90d85-0	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Malm has asked me how I believe that the new restrictive asylum legislation and, above all, the rules on one-year residence permits are compatible with realistic opportunities for new arrivals to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market in a short time. Fredrik Malm has also asked me what impact assessment I am doing regarding the Government's proposal for a one-year residence permit and the possibility for newcomers to have good and long-term conditions in society, and how my work with the so-called fast track is affected by the one-year residence permits. The asylum system has been put under great pressure, and the Government therefore considers that measures must be taken to temporarily adapt the Swedish asylum rules to the minimum level of EU law and international conventions, while improving the capacity of reception and establishment. There is a risk that temporary residence permits may have a negative impact on establishment. At the same time, however, a prerequisite for a long-term functioning establishment is that we have the opportunity to give those who come here a good reception and good conditions to establish themselves in the labour market and in society. It is therefore necessary for the government to act to deal with the situation.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that comprehensive answer. I suppose it consisted essentially of a sentence that touched my interpellation. I'll get back to you in a minute. The background to this is that the agreement concluded last autumn between the government and the alliance parties includes the fact that many asylum seekers are granted temporary residence permits for three years. If you succeed in finding a job or if the reasons for protection persist, the temporary residence permit may later be converted into a permanent residence permit. This is something that my party, the Liberals, was up to. Since then, however, the government has come forward with its own proposal, which means that a large group of people should not be granted temporary residence permits for three years, but only for one year. This goes much further, and we are much more critical of that because the entire system that we have in Sweden for establishment is based on making an establishment plan and entering into different types of practice, Swedish learning and other things, and this assignment spans two years. It is not surprising, therefore, that virtually all the consultative bodies saw this proposal from the government and believe that it will impair integration. Today it may take seven eight years for a person to be ready for the labour market in Sweden. The establishment period is therefore two years, and now the government wants to cut it for Syrian war refugees in particular to one year. Then the question is: How realistic is it that a person who has fled the war's Aleppo should be ready for the Swedish labour market after a year in Sweden when perhaps half that time is waiting time and about half the time in the end is what becomes actual establishment? It is down to six seven or perhaps eight months for these people, and it is clear that it will be very difficult to manage the start-up assignment that the Riksdag has given to the Employment Service and in practice imposed on them. One could imagine that the government would listen to the consultation bodies – at Arbetsförmedlingen, Akademikerförbundet and at everyone else who says that it will be very difficult to get a war refugee ready for the labour market in half the time of establishment. Then the government says at the press conference yesterday that they are prepared to extend from one year to 13 months. Oh, my God, that's not a big change, and it's obviously because it's jacketing this into benefit systems, which means that job focus disappears even more. Then, Mr President, it is a little worrying when I try to write an interpellation on just over two sides and the answer from the government is barely one side, half of which is to repeat my questions. Then comes a paragraph on why the government wants restrictive legislation. But that is not what I have been asking you, Mr President. I am not interested in knowing the government's argument for why it wants restrictive asylum legislation. What I am asking is what the consequences of this are. The only thing that the government is able to respond to this, with a single sentence, is that there is a risk that temporary residence permits may have a negative impact on the establishment. Yes, I support that view. It's just that this is a complete surrender, Ylva Johansson. Is this your only answer to the question of what the consequences for establishment are, about the consequences for the employment agency's mission, about the consequences for fast track? It can have a negative impact, the government replies. You have completely surrendered to this. You have no answers, no analysis – nothing.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-14	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by apologizing to Fredrik Malm for the short answer. This has to do with the process of developing the interpellation response, which has taken place in parallel with the process of producing the legislative referral that the Government decided yesterday. It has been difficult to run parallel proceedings and take precedence over the interpellation response before the legislative referral was completed. Now it's finished, and the government made decisions yesterday. It is the case, and I do not think it should be overlooked, that short-term residence permits – and this is my assessment – will make it much more difficult to establish yourself in the labour market. Temporary residence permits are therefore unfortunate, particularly short ones. I believe that setting up in the labour market is facilitated by having a security in staying and that you can bring your family here. I think it works that way. You can't know for sure, but that's what I think. Now it is that Sweden has had permanent residence permits as a general rule, and there was a reason to have it that way. The situation we experienced last year, however, was that we became increasingly a lonely island with, what I think, good rules for residence permits. We came to be very different from other countries within the EU, and this led to Sweden becoming the country within the European Union that received by far the most asylum seekers, far more than Germany was the second country. This situation is not sustainable, and I am the first to regret that it is so in terms of cohesion and cooperation within the European Union. This government has been extremely committed from day one to trying to influence other countries within the EU to get more countries to stand up for a more generous and better reception of asylum so that we can ensure that we really focus on the people who will also be able to establish and start their new life in their new country. That is the situation we would like to have: that we were many countries that did this. However, when we ended up in a situation where Sweden became alone in having a significantly more generous and in many ways better asylum legislation than other countries, it led to us receiving a disproportionate proportion of the refugees who came to the EU. If the EU countries had stood up in solidarity, we would have successfully managed the reception of refugees that Europe had last year. Now we do not have that situation, and that is the background to the government's making these changes. We're not going to go under for the purpose. We do not believe that the changes themselves will facilitate establishment. We are doing them because we believe that it is necessary for more people to apply for asylum in another EU country and fewer in Sweden. It is in itself, in the situation that Sweden now finds itself in, in fact, a prerequisite for us to succeed well with the establishment. 163 000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden last year. There are currently 180 000 people in the asylum system. That's a lot. It is my assessment that we will be able to get people to establish themselves in Sweden and enter the labour market, but Sweden cannot accept as many this year. It is therefore important that we also have a policy so that more people will apply for asylum in another country and fewer in Sweden.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-24	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are part of the agreement that was concluded last autumn, and we share in many ways the Government's view that Sweden should stand up for people who flee. But Sweden came to a situation last autumn where the situation became unmanageable. When the government moved forward unilaterally– bilaterally, there are at least two parties in the government – and proposed, for example, ID controls, the Liberals conducted significant internal discussions on the issue. We also accepted this proposal in order for Sweden to cope with the current situation and for other EU countries to also take greater responsibility. But, Mr President, that is not what my interpellation is about. The Government's response is a long description of why the Government wants as restrictive asylum legislation as possible. My interpellation is about the consequences of this. I note that the Government is still in a position to respond to any consequences other than a deterioration in establishment. How does establishment deteriorate? If the period of establishment is to be one year instead of two years, what is the government's view that one should refrain from during the period of establishment? Is it the internship that's going to stand back? Is it Swedish education that should be allowed to stand back? Is there anything else to stand back? I also ask a question in my interpellation about how the work on the fast track is affected. Here, too, the Government has not managed to get an answer out of it. How do the fast tracks affect? Yeah, they're gonna go even faster. We can agree on that. But in what way? How should a fast track into the medical profession, a fast track into the construction sector or a fast track into the commercial sector be affected by significantly shorter times? Here too, there are no concrete answers. I understand the processes in the Government Office. I do not expect a doctoral thesis in response to my interpellation, but at least some more reasoning. I believe that both citizens and all of us in politics, on the one hand, appreciate the brutal sincerity on the part of the government, namely that the aim is to close the border and that other countries should accept asylum seekers. On the other hand, it is not enough. The answer given by the Government here is, in practice, a surrender. The only thing the government says is that there are so many asylum seekers now that we have to surrender. The point is that the consequence of the legislation does not affect people who want to come to Sweden. It affects people who are in Sweden, who have received an official decision that they can stay in Sweden. It concerns people where the government in budget allocations and regulatory letters has ordered the Public Employment Service to make these people ready for the labour market. The only answer the Government gives is that the establishment will work worse. It is not an answer to these people, it is not an answer to those who work at the Employment Service and it is not an answer to the opposition in this House.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-32	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you that I did not raise the issue of ID checks. Before the ID checks were introduced, the Liberals were indeed in favour of the proposal. But when you voted in this House, you did not. That's it. You did not vote in favour of the ID checks. Although you said in the discussions and talks before that you would support the proposal, you did not do so in this House. That's it. Fredrik Malm chooses to misinterpret me. The government introduces a more restrictive asylum policy on a temporary basis in order for fewer people to come here and more people to apply for asylum in another country and in order for us to manage the establishment of all those who have already applied for asylum in Sweden. It is not the case that those who have already received a residence permit decision are affected by the new asylum rules. It is for those who have not yet received decisions. Nor does it apply to unaccompanied minors or families with children who came before 24 November – if I remember the date correctly. Those with refugee status will receive a three-year temporary residence permit. We are now talking about adults who have come without children and who do not have refugee status but are alternatively in need of protection. They will only be granted a residence permit for one year – 13 months – and then an extension for another two years. That's what it looks like. I've answered the question. I believe that it is necessary to have a more restrictive asylum policy in order for us to cope with the establishment of those who have already come to Sweden. Not implementing changes and risking a situation where Sweden takes an equal share of the asylum seekers that Sweden did last year will mean that we will not be able to manage the establishment in a good way. There are two things in the balance. Short temporary residence permits do not facilitate establishment – quite the contrary. The prerequisite for us to manage the establishment well, as I judge the situation today within the EU, is that Sweden's asylum rules do not differ too much from those in the other EU countries.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-38	Mr President, I would like to There will be a bit of semantic distortion of words when the Government says that the legislation does not concern those who are already here but those who are to come here. But it affects people who are told that they have the right to reside in Sweden for a year. Thus, those covered by the legislation are people who will be in Sweden. They will have received a decision from Swedish authorities that they can stay in Sweden. They will be located within Arbetsförmedlingen's premises in order to establish an establishment plan. The basic idea is that they should be ready for the Swedish labour market after the establishment period. The concern is that when the time of establishment is so short, it will be difficult for these people to be ready for the labour market. It's not realistic. The people do not have refugee reasons, says the Government. It's partly a truth with modification. Essentially, it is about people who have left Syria. If they are then not refugees from the Convention, but are considered to be the alternative need for protection within the categories that exist, we still need to be clear about who is covered by the change. People have left Syria. Mr President, I would like to I'm brutally honest, too. My view is that it is largely unrealistic for these people to be ready to get a job at a contractual salary in Sweden after 13 months. It's unrealistic. I had expected that the Government and the Government would have some kind of idea or plan for how to facilitate the establishment of these people, but I understand that it does not exist.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-43	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately there is a great risk, Fredrik Malm, that after 13 months it is not such a situation in Syria that you can go back. Then you get a new temporary residence permit. We all wish that there will be peace in Syria and that people will be able to return, but the forecast for that to happen within 13 months is unfortunately quite poor. Then it will be an extension – you get another residence permit of two years. Mr President, I would like to I find it a little sad that Fredrik Malm is having such a polemic discussion about this. This is a difficult situation. Sweden was in a difficult situation last year. We felt compelled to take restrictive measures that we would not have liked. If other countries had done things differently, we would not have had to do so. If more countries had given permanent residence permits to those fleeing and receiving a residence permit, we would have had a different situation. This came from Sweden being alone in its regulations. Other countries have a significantly lower level of ambition in the area of asylum law, and that is why Sweden has been forced to do so. We are facing major challenges. It will be difficult – more difficult, I think – for Arbetsförmedlingen to work with and motivate people who have a shorter residence permit. These are such issues that we are now working on together with Arbetsförmedlingen – how it should be designed and how we should work with the fast track. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that very many of those who will be in employment will continue to have permanent residence permits and that many will have temporary residence permits for three years.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-47	Mr President, I would like to Désirée Pethrus has asked me if I share her view that the large number of asylum seekers in Sweden is a challenge and how I intend to work to improve the conditions for new arrivals to establish themselves in the labour market. She has also asked me how I intend to work towards shortening the length of labour market measures for unsupported employment and how I see the possibility of introducing introductions of the type proposed by the Christian Democrats. Reality is changing rapidly right now before our eyes. Sweden's population is growing significantly faster than previously expected, and the large number of asylum seekers will affect both the labour force and unemployment in the future. In the short term, this presents challenges. Labour market developments are currently strong according to the Labour Force Survey of Statistics Finland. Employment is growing at a good pace, mainly among foreign born people, while unemployment is clearly falling, not least among young people. In order to shorten the time from arrival to work, the work for the establishment of new arrivals is reformed. In the budget bill, endorsed by the Riksdag, the Government proposed a number of investments that will lead to faster entry into the labour market, including strengthened labour market-oriented efforts, validation and a substantial increase in the compensation to municipalities for the reception of new arrivals. The Government has also invested in the knowledge transfer, which involves both a substantial increase in the number of places of education and measures aimed at higher quality education for adults. The government's discussions with the social partners, the Employment Service and other relevant authorities to create so-called "fast track" into the labour market for newcomers in the start-up assignment have led to several quick tracks already being presented. In February, fast track was started for chefs, butchers/carriers, health professionals and teachers and preschool teachers. The government welcomes the fact that these efforts will benefit both women and men. Another important element in strengthening the establishment of newcomers is the Act on the Admission of certain newly arrived immigrants for residence, which entered into force now in March. The law means that municipalities with a comparatively good labour market, a large population, low reception and relatively few asylum seekers will receive more new arrivals than municipalities with fewer opportunities. More new arrivals will thus come to municipalities where there are good conditions for establishment. I would also like to stress the importance of the government and the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats having agreed on the necessary efforts to ensure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers and to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. The agreement proposes, inter alia, measures to speed up and improve the entry of newly arrived immigrants into the labour market. It is my view that further efforts will be needed to create faster entry into the labour market, and the government is working on this. A sustained reduction in unemployment and an increase in employment is one of the government's most important tasks. To achieve this goal, investments in jobs are made through the government's three-part job agenda: investment in housing, climate change and infrastructure, and an active business and innovation policy for more and growing companies and investment in skills and matching. I do not share Mrs Pethrus' view that employment with support would be a failure for the establishment of new arrivals or, for that matter, for the reintegration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. It is an important input which, to a greater extent than other labour market policies, leads to self-sufficiency and a foothold in the labour market. Subsidised employment provides the working community, language development and self-esteem that Désirée Pethrus highlights in his interpellation. In other words, it is a real job with real pay. I am not prepared to leave the Swedish model and introduce introductions of the type proposed by the Christian Democrats. The social partners are responsible for wage formation in Sweden, not the government. However, the government, as I explained, has implemented a number of measures to facilitate, within the framework of the Swedish model, the entry of newcomers with low education and young people with a lack of educational background. We also intend to extend career introductions to newly arrived immigrants over the age of 25, as is currently being prepared within the Council.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-59	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This will be a continuation of the previous debate, you might say. The majority of all parties in Sweden are in favour of regulated immigration, I think. This means that we do not have the opportunity to help everyone. In such cases, we could remove all visa requirements that we have for other countries and so on. Those who are most affected when our systems collapse in the face of too high migration are the ones who most need the help of society. It is they who are affected – those who need social services and various benefits, who are homeless and so on. However, if we do not get all the new arrivals into work, then the crisis will get even worse for those who already have major problems and who need our social welfare services. That's why I've set this interpellation. I think it is important, and I do not think that the government really responds to the need to lower the thresholds into the labour market. This is something that a lot of people, including the Institute of Economic Affairs, the Council of Labour and the Council of Finance Policy, are addressing – also several parties including the Christian Democrats here in Parliament. We have too high entry wages as an obstacle, mainly for people with lower education and lower language skills. We can see that among those who have been in Sweden in eight, unemployment is still 40% today. Of course, this is something that we must do something about. Let's look at the numbers. First you come in as an asylum seeker, and now it can take up to two years before you get a decision on a residence permit. Once you have received a residence permit decision, you enter the start-up phase. If we look at what it looks like after the start-up phase, we see that after three months only 5% have a real job without support. Surely the government must realise that this is untenable for society. We need to get people into real jobs much faster. A job is not just about receiving financial compensation, it is, as the Government said, about working community, language development and so on. We believe that labour market policy measures, for which the Government is in favour, may certainly be necessary. However, the start-up phase has shown that we are doing too much with training and too much with various labour market policies that result in people not entering their own jobs but in support. This is what we mean to change, and that is why we have proposed introductory employment as part of it. In fact, the Government has answered the wrong question, because the Government says that we are interfering in wage setting. We don't. We say that you can have 25 per cent education and work 75 per cent. 25% is therefore training time, and then 75% of the lowest collective wage is paid. This means that we will not touch collective agreements. One wonders: how does the Government really view the impact of all these labour market policies, and why is the Government not prepared to lower the thresholds and see that entry wages have an effect on the labour market?
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-70	Mr President, I would like to I agree with what Mrs Pethrus started with. This is one of the most important issues. It is clear that we will need to have many debates on this, because it is a major challenge that Sweden is facing – that is how it is. It will shape the political debate, I believe, for a long time. I also believe that we will have to do more things than we have done so far. It is therefore a good thing that we can discuss different solutions. On some points I disagree with Mrs Pethrus. I do not agree that too many people are taking part in training today in the start-up mission. It is a few percent who participate in education. There is very little compared to about 30 percent of those who come here who have a very low level of education. It would be reasonable, I think, to invest much more in education than has been done so far in the establishment mission, and that is one of the things we are working on. I also believe that it is good for many individuals to combine education and work, that it is not full-time studies but that they combine it with being in a workplace, in work or in practice, during the start-up period. I welcome any combination of education and work. I think it's good to do that. We are working to extend career introduction employment, which means just 75 per cent work and 25 per cent training, learning in the workplace, also to new arrivals. That is part of the agreement between our parties, among other things. It is necessary, Mr President, to reduce the wage costs of many of those who find it difficult to enter the labour market – absolutely. It is really necessary to do so, and so do we today. With the support available today, an employer pays very little in wages for a new arrival. I think that is well justified. I do not share the view that wage support work would not be a real job. It is one of the labour market policies that research and experience know to have the best effect: that people get a real job with wage support. A lot of people then go to work without wage support. I think that's good. That the first job you get in Sweden is a job with wage support, I do not see as a failure. However, I think that there are far too few people who move on to work and studies within two years. Now the proportion has started to increase, despite the fact that we have many more in the start-up assignment, but it is still a horrendously low share. I do not think it is acceptable for so many people to move on from the start-up mission into unemployment. This is one of the reasons why the government is now working on changes to the establishment reform carried out by the old government. There are parts in it that are good, but there are parts in it that are not good. The starters were one such thing, which we have removed. I think it was completely wrong to go for the same measure for everyone regardless of the background, for example the educational background. We are now also working on other changes to the start-up assignment to create greater flexibility and to increase the proportion that goes on to work and studies after the start-up period.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-77	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I still don't think we really agree. When we talk about education, I think we all agree that many people who come here need education. Unfortunately, a large proportion of people arriving today do not have higher education, not even upper secondary education. Not everyone will be able to assimilate this type of education, just as the Employment Service wrote in some writing. We need to get these people into work quickly. You can then look at educational measures. I believe that the Government has seen, for example, the Swedish National Audit Office's investigation into Volvo Car's efforts. When laid off, they were allowed to enter into various education and labour market policies. What could be seen was the delay in entering the labour market. Those who did not attend these training courses got into work faster. I have also started to revise and think about this myself. The risk is that, through all our measures, we will lock up people who could actually get out to work. The finess of introductory positions, as we propose from the Christian Democrats, is that it is not required that you have first been unemployed for a certain time, this and so, or that you are at a certain age, this and so. It is not required that the Employment Service administers the introductory employment, but this applies to all employers who say: I have a job, but I realize that you may not know the language. Maybe you don't understand how this job works. We'll give you a chance. It's not a rule problem. We must be much more flexible and come up with new ideas. We cannot afford to hire employment agencies to take care of everyone who has now arrived. We need to find other options. Mr President, I would like to We are not going to interfere in wage formation, but we have to make sure we find opportunities. That is exactly what we are proposing when it comes to introductory employment. It is about giving employers an opportunity when they see: It will take longer than maybe six months for me to make a decision on whether this person should be allowed to continue. It will take longer. We know that many people find it difficult to enter the labour market, especially those who do not have higher education. Here we need to find what we think is more about a fast track. What the government says about fast track is good. I don't know how many people are getting into the fast track. But on the Christian Democrats' side, we believe it is better to make it easier for entrepreneurs to hire themselves. I also think we need to get in much sooner. We need to get in already during the asylum process. We cannot have people for two years in passivity waiting for a residence permit. They then enter into all labour market policy measures for two years. After four or five years, very few people have been employed. I can't. We are facing a challenge that is historic, as I believe the Government itself said yesterday. Not since the Second World War have we had such a large number of new people who have come to Sweden. Let us be open to various efforts! Today, my party and my party leader propose a form of new employment. There is more support for the municipalities. There are 6,200 health services. That's one way to try to simplify. This applies to services where nurses do not need to be involved, but other service-related services may be eligible. This is something that is already being worked on in various educational companies. It would be interesting to hear how the Government views it.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-85	Mr President, I would like to When you discuss with Désirée Pethrus, it is nice in many ways. Désirée Pethrus now says that the Christian Democrats do not want politicians to interfere in wage formation. I welcome that. It is very good if we can agree on that. I also fully agree that we must reduce the regulatory burden. It is far too difficult for employers to use the various subsidies that the Employment Service has, and there are far too many of them. Simplifications need to be made here in order to make their use easy. Nevertheless, let me remind you that this is exactly what the old government introduced. In fact, there is quite a lot of regulatory problems and very many different employment subsidies. When the old government ruled, there was an action within the establishment mission, and it was the establishment slot. Everyone got it, and it was severely criticized. And during the old government's time, there was basically no early intervention during the asylum period. We'll change that now. We're changing the start-up assignment. We have invested heavily in early intervention. I believe that we will have to do even more so as to make the best use of asylum time. And we have individualized the way you meet people. But I welcome the tone of the Désirée Pethrus. I believe and hope that we will be able to work well together and develop more on the many different solutions that need to be put into the labour market. Since the individuals who come here are very different and have very different conditions, the efforts must also be different and individually designed. Mr President, I would like to Let me still mention one thing in which we differ. Désirée Pethrus compares with redundant Volvo workers. There is actually a huge difference compared to many of those who now come to Sweden. It is about 30 percent who have a higher education, a post-secondary education. It is about 30 percent who have an education corresponding to approximately upper secondary level. And that's about 30% with a low level of education. A little rough, you can divide it that way. When we look at which groups participate in education, we see that they are the highly educated. The low-skilled hardly participate at all. At the same time, we know that those who come here are young, very young. We have a large share between 20 and 30 years, and we have an even larger share going to school. It is clear that we should invest in education for young people. They will work here for a long life and be able to establish themselves here. Of course, it is right to invest in education. It is not the only solution, but when I look at the low proportion of people taking part in training in the start-up assignment and when I know what the educational background is, I am a little horrified. Not everyone should enter education, but only a few percentage points who participate in education are very low given that it is a young population that comes here and that many have a low level of education. We will have to invest more in education. But we also need to see that it should be easy for employers to hire and that it should not be too expensive because the employer often takes on the task of learning in the profession, teaching how it works in a Swedish workplace and training the language. Of course, it is reasonable that the wage cost is lower than for a person who already has these skills.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-94	Mr President, I would like to The unemployment rate of children born abroad is now 21.8 per cent, while that of natives is 4.8 per cent. It is a dramatic challenge, and we expect the government to act there. The Alliance government made a lot of different efforts: the entry jobs, the start-up jobs and the job tax deduction, which were appreciated by among others the Fiscal Council because it gave incentives to work. We introduced a completely new labour market in RUT and ROT services. That's where the government backed up and realized we're going to need them. That is a good thing, but I think we will need to develop them further. The Government says that we need to invest more in education and that it is a pity that the low-skilled participate very little in education today. It is possible that we can get more into education efforts, but we must meet that challenge without over-exploitation. We have already had to increase the budget by 25 to 30 billion for the immigration we had in the autumn. If we are to manage to make the service and the whole welfare work, we must get the labour market going even for those who come here and do not have any kind of upper secondary education. We need to get them to work quickly. I hope and believe that the government realises that a whole new job sector is needed, and that is why we are proposing introductory positions. We believe that this is a new way of reducing the regulatory burden and ensuring that employers can quickly employ at a lower cost, without the state having to participate in funding. We can't afford to go in and fund all the services, new start jobs, entry jobs and so on. Let go of the rules, and let the entrepreneurs themselves find different employment opportunities for those who come!
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-99	Mr President, I would like to We are working to remove some of the regulatory issues imposed by the old government. Désirée Pethrus says that the old government did many things. It did. There was an enormous investment in tax cuts, and a huge amount of billions was spent on reducing the social security contributions for young people. There were various measures that were said to solve unemployment. The problem was that they didn't do it, but it is now that unemployment is falling, it is now that jobs are growing, it is now that growth is strong and it is now foreign born to a very large extent get jobs. It is the group that is growing in employment most strongly, and this is particularly true of women born abroad. Of course, it depends not only on government policy but also on other elements. However, one should perhaps be a little careful to beat the chest over a policy that actually did not solve and deal with unemployment or the entry of new arrivals into the labour market, even though in the old government's time we had very many fewer to work with. Mr President, I would like to I will come back again to welcoming the tone of the Désirée Pethrus. I hope and believe that we will be able to continue a constructive dialogue on the additional measures that will be needed – I share this view – not least for those people who have a low level of education and who may not even have previous professional experience. Special solutions must be found there. Thank you for the debate.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-103	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me if I see any problems with transitions between public and private activities in general and in the military sector in particular. Stig Henriksson has also asked me whether I believe that there are grounds for introducing some form of Karenness and whether I will in any way promote legislation or codes of conduct in that direction. I would like to start by pointing out that there are many advantages to transitions between public and private activities, both for the individual and for the general public. At the same time, it may lead to a risk of conflicts of interest of various kinds, such as when politicians and public sector officials choose to take up post-mission or post-employment work in companies or associations operating in areas where the politician or official has previously been active. This is particularly true in the field of defence. As the government also pointed out in the Specialisation Bill, the need for and the possibility of introducing a withdrawal system for personnel leaving the state administration for the benefit of the security and defence industry should be reviewed. However, issues relating to the need for and the possibility of introducing Karen systems are not limited to the field of defence. These are complex questions of principle and law that require thorough consideration. On 23 March 2016, the Government has decided to provide an investigation to review the need for changes in the conditions for government ministers and state secretaries to conclude, for a certain period of time after they have left their assignment and their employment respectively, agreements on and undertake certain types of employment and assignments. If the investigation considers that there is a need for changes, it shall submit the necessary legislative proposals or proposals for other measures. The assignment shall be reported by 31 December 2016. The government will return to the issue after the investigation has reported its findings.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-108	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I think it is good and nuanced on several points, but perhaps with some flaws that I will come back to. I have put this interpellation on account of what is usually called turning door problems, directly because the former ÖB Sverker Göransson started working for the defence group Saab on 1 April. It became clear only a few months after he completed his long career in the Swedish Armed Forces on 30 September. During his time as an ÖB, the Swedish Armed Forces have of course had several large material projects where Saab was a developer and manufacturer, in close cooperation. For many years this has been discussed and also highlighted in an ESO report without any action being taken in Sweden. However, as has been said, most OECD countries have introduced restrictions in this area through legislation or codes of conduct. As I pointed out in the interpellation, different sectors are affected to varying degrees. I have seen it as particularly important to start precisely with the field of defence. As I see it, there are three reasons for this. The first is that, naturally, much is covered by confidentiality in this sector. The second reason concerns what Dwight D. Eisenhower launched: the military industrial complex. There are so many links between industry, military, state, joint projects and so on that the demarcation is not as clear as in many other activities. The third is well known, namely that an enormous number of arms deals are eventually the subject of investigations and sometimes of bribery and bribery. The counter-purchase system that exists is a phenomenon that often leads to some questionable business where the state is often an actor in both marketing and contract writing and is involved in many different ways. This makes it particularly important here. Now, in his reply, the Minister for Defence has pointed out that on 23 March the government has decided to set up an investigation to review the need for change in this area. Of course, my well - known modesty does not make me assume that it has any connection with the interpellation. However, one is tempted to quote what former colleagues, MPs, could already read in 1686 on some milestones when they were on their way to a parliament whose power had been increasingly surrounded by autocracy. I'm told it said: What will be done is already done. Gentlemen, don't go so fast! ..................................................... The problem with the investigation is that ÖB's quick change of side is not hit by the investigation, as well as that some attention is paid to the trip back and forth between the public sector and the private sector is not addressed in the investigation. The questions I still have for the Minister are: Does Peter Hultqvist see any problems at all, for example, with the rapid change in his career? Why is there not a broader grant in the investigation?
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-119	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to make any comments about individuals, how they have handled their situation and what their missions are. This has been discussed both in the Defence Committee and in connection with the specialization decision for the Swedish Armed Forces last year. I have also said in a previous interpellation debate that I have initiated a review of these issues within the Department. In the interpellation debate, I also said that it might be necessary to tackle this particular issue in a broader perspective, and that is what the government has finally decided on. The investigation initially involves ministers and secretaries of state. We'll see what the outcome is. It is important for things to be good, with sustainable regulations that also stand up in the confrontation with reality. It is not, of course, a question of banning this kind of possibility of being able to work in the private sector after a post of Minister of State, State Secretary or Head of State Administration, because then we are undermining the constitutional right to freedom of the profession. That is not what all of this is aimed at, but at some sort of reasonableness and balance. Since this has a broader allocation and a broader impact, we from the government have chosen to go forward in a broad field. When the report presents its results, we will have to come back to concrete measures. I believe that the debate that has focused on the defence preparation and the decision to focus and in the defence sector has been part of the overall impact of our reaching this conclusion. I note that the government has made this decision and is prepared to look at the issues, which the previous government did not do. Of course, there are many things you can think about when it comes to these pieces. Although there is confidentiality, it does not rule out the need for further regulation. There are such things as undue influence if you have a promise of employment. There are information, contacts and things about this type of background that could be used for a negative purpose, if you choose to think those thoughts. In the Specialisation Bill, we have said that close cooperation between industry and the state could be a reason for considering specific regulation. Karen time could be one way. As I said before, we'll have to wait for the investigation before we come to conclusions. What we are doing now includes ministers and secretaries of state. At a later stage, you'll see if you're going to move on.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-127	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we do not have to discuss individuals. But the person I refer to was the head of an authority. And while an investigation is being carried out, why limit it to Secretary of State and Minister of State? That's one problem. So to the second problem. The Secretary of Defense says to investigate the need for change. But how much do you really need to investigate the need for change? Of course, there are a lot of difficult balances to make– I agree with the Government on that. The principle of being able to apply for any vacancy is an important principle to maintain. But most other countries can do this, so why not Sweden? As has been said, this is not a new phenomenon, but, as the Minister for Defence himself says, it has been discussed in different contexts, and then we must begin to investigate the need for changes for a very limited circle. But why not investigate wider – not if there is a need for change, but what changes should look like and also for a wider circle?
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-130	Mr President, I would like to We have now been in government for about a year and a half, and we set up this investigation in March of this year. It feels a little bit like Henriksson almost accuses us of some kind of slowness. I can only say that it was another government that sat for eight years, and that is where one has to concentrate that kind of debate and emotion. We have now chosen to move forward with regard to ministers and secretaries of state. I do not rule out the possibility of moving forward and extending this to other types of executives as well. Stig Henriksson says that most other countries have done this. I do not have an overview of all the countries he says have managed to do this. However, I note that we are addressing this issue not because we are not going to do anything, but because there is a need to ensure that conflicts of interest do not arise and that confidence in the government is not damaged when, after the end of the mandate, the State Secretary and the State Secretary take on other appointments or assignments. It is thus distinctly formulated: It is not a general therapeutic exercise, as we are doing in order to just show that we should have an investigation for the sake of the investigation, but there is a purpose behind it. It might be good to start from what we can call the highest peak and see what kind of regulations we come up with there, and then consider– I won't go ahead – if you in the next step are going to move on. I see that there are many things that there may be reason to balance. But it is also a question of doing things in a thorough, workable and realistic way and not rushing away, so that once you do the work, you have to repeat certain parts of what you have put in the lake or to say that you have created a system that does not really withstand the confrontation with reality. These are the aspects that make us choose to move forward in this way. I don't think we have any fundamental differences of opinion, but perhaps the pace, the approach and the methodology. But at least we take this issue seriously and seriously and come back with more concrete ideas when the investigation has been carried out.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-136	Mr President, I would like to In order for there to be no misunderstanding, I will say that I do not think it takes too long if a government that has taken office after the 2014 elections is now taking the initiative on this issue. There is no problem with that, but when the initiative consists of reviewing the need for change. At this point, I think it should be quite clear that there is a need for change. This should be worded in a completely different way. Nevertheless, there is no reasonable good reason to first conduct an investigation by ministers and secretaries of state and then perhaps proceed with, for example, heads of government. That almost means you double-work. However, I am pleased that the Minister for Defence is willing to consider moving forward. But, as I said, it feels like one could have taken a slightly bigger and more distinctive approach to the issue after all the discussions that have been and all the recommendations that have been made from different quarters for a number of years. It has been discussed, the Riksdag has initiated, it has been in the Defence Committee and so on. Yet we are now going to investigate the need to make changes for the very small group of ministers and secretaries of state. In conclusion, I can make a travesty of what I started with here and say: In gentlemen, you do not travel so fast. What should be done should already be done.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-139	Mr President, I would like to Of course we can try to make fun of it. There are many things that would have to be both undone and done long ago in our society. I could list as many points as possible, and I am sure Stig Henriksson could do so. Unfortunately, the reality is that you stand and stomp where you are. You have to start from that position. And now we're starting from a position where there's still a lot to do. In addition to what I read earlier from the directive that it is important to ensure that conflicts of interest do not arise and that trust in the public administration is not damaged and so on, I would like to read out what is in the next sentence. It states: The Government has also previously noted that there is a need to review the need for and the possibility of introducing a withdrawal system for personnel leaving the state administration in favour of the security and defence industry. This is also provided for in the directive for this investigation. What Stig Henriksson thinks is a flaw is highlighted here and opens up for looking at future rules on this point as well. But, as I said, I don't anticipate an investigation. This will now take its course, and then we will get back to you when the results of the investigation are complete. Then we will have to take the necessary steps.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-142	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me what I mean by my statements on voluntary police, when I intend to introduce them and what powers they will then have. Roger Haddad has also asked me if I see any risks in introducing a three-year police training course in view of the police's acute skills supply problems. He has also asked me if I and the government are planning to solve the staff shortage in the police with volunteers and volunteer police. The police are already using volunteers, so-called volunteers. It is people who help the police in their free time, including in the local crime prevention work and in the work of supporting crime victims. Volunteers are not employed by the police and have no powers other than other citizens. Properly used, for example, security guards, security guards and volunteers can be a good complement to police operations. On this basis, there is no need to train "volunteer police" quickly and give them police powers. The Swedish police have shown during the past year that the agency has the flexibility and ability to solve many difficult tasks under difficult conditions. The transformation of the police into an authority is an important explanation for the fact that the Police Authority has been able to gather together to manage the autumn refugee flows. However, it is clear that, above all, the refugee situation has forced the Police Authority to set tough priorities in its activities. It is therefore reasonable to review the need for long-term resource reinforcements. In the budget base recently submitted to the Government by the Police Authority, the Authority has specified its resource needs. The government will normally prepare this within the framework of work on next year's draft budget. The police education investigation is tasked with proposing how police education can be transformed into a higher education programme and must report its assignment by 1 June 2016. The extension of current police training would, of course, require greater foresight in training and recruitment. However, I am convinced that this can be dealt with by the Police Authority.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-146	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Ygeman for the interpellation response. I was a little worried yesterday. Although there is nothing about it in the parliamentary order, we usually get the answers to the questions during the day. But by the time the clock had passed 4 p.m. yesterday, I had still not received an interpellation response. But it came about 18.15. This indicates that the government may have had some difficulty in formulating and reconnecting with us after the Government's response to the Liberals' interpellation. One reason I have put this interpellation is that the Liberals are very concerned about the situation in the legal system in Sweden, where the vast majority of the employees in the legal system work in the Swedish police. The largest budget line of the more than 30-40 billion goes to the Swedish police. And no one could have missed this debate and the situation that the Swedish police find themselves in. Some police chiefs choose to use the word emergency. I don't use that word, but I usually use the notion that the police are in a very stressed situation. I think that is a concern and a cause for concern in itself. The most important thing that we from the Liberals have brought forward at an early stage is to try to keep the police in the agency, to mitigate the drop-out and to attract back those who have gone to other authorities, but also to take stock not least of those pensioners who may have retired far too early but who are needed and who have skills. In other contexts, we see that the refugee situation has actually led to the success of adult education, preschool and school activities with the help of attracting back skilled retired employees. I have also put this interpellation in the light of the fact that the police submitted a report on vulnerable areas – 53 vulnerable areas and 14 – 15 particularly vulnerable areas. In the response we have received in the past on how to deal with this with visible and local police officers, the focus of the government's response has been the particularly vulnerable areas and not the vulnerable areas. However, there is a risk that we will see increased crime and drug sales in the vulnerable areas, which in turn can contribute to their being particularly vulnerable. We must prevent this. Another reason why I have put this interpellation is a statement from the Government, which not only I but several editorials have noted, in a major interview in the newspaper Dagens Samhälle. It's a very nice picture of the government there. It says that volunteer policemen can increase security. In the answer from the Government, he says that so-called volunteers already exist. But I have been involved in the discussions on these issues for so long that I know that there is a difference in terms of police volunteers and the statement in Today's Society where the Government is said to have been inspired by the Netherlands where it is supposed to have voluntary part-time employees, and their training should take place at a low pace. Then the question is: When are these volunteer policemen coming? What should the selection criteria be, and what powers should they have?
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-156	Mr President, I would like to The last three questions asked by Roger Haddad are difficult to answer given, as the article also shows, that the government has no plans to introduce voluntary police officers. What we have said, however, is that we do not intend to reintroduce the emergency police but that we are prepared to look at other types of intermediate forms between the highly educated and skilled police officers that we have in Sweden and, for example, volunteers. Then you can get inspiration in England, Holland or other countries, but this is more of an unconditional discussion about the future. How can we complement the police in the future? The foundation must always be a well-manned, highly educated, paid police force. That is why we want to move on to turning police education into higher education, and that is why we are spending more money on the police than ever. That is also why we have more policemen than under any bourgeois government.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-159	Mr President, I would like to As hastily as the Government had to come to this House to answer my interpellation, he has to finish his speeches and go sit down to taste the good coffee we have. This indicates that the government has no clear and clear information. However, it is written in the newspaper Dagens Samhälle – and I have also received excerpts from other editorial writers, and they have all clearly interpreted it so – that Anders Ygeman, Minister for the Interior, prepares and pronounces that we may need volunteer police officers. But the written interpellation response to Roger Haddad and the Liberals says that the police are already using volunteers. However, it is not the same. Police volunteers are truly volunteers; they are not employed. They know night hikes, and they can spread information from the police or the Crime Prevention Council. They may be support persons for victims by telephone. This particular sentence in the interpellation response is taken from the police website:" Volunteers are not employed by the police and have no powers other than other citizens. " But had the ministry officials continued and included the next sentence, which is not in the answer but which I have with me from the website, it would have said that volunteers are not allowed to act or intervene if a crime is committed. They can report. Neither are the volunteers my interpellation is about. We have been following them in Stockholm since 2005, and the Alliance has taken a somewhat broader approach to the issue around 2009– 2012. There are studies from Örebro University, a research report that came last year, which shows that it is a good business but that it is unclear what you can give them for assignments. It is unclear what their powers are. They do not contribute to a greater sense of security when compared to a uniformed, trained police officer. They can contribute a little bit, but it certainly cannot be compared to real, uniformed and also foot patrolling police. At least that's what this little report says. This shows that local crime prevention is very important. So this is not about police volunteers, it is about volunteer police. The government says he wants to open up to an unconditional discussion. Does that mean that the House can get some kind of answer today? Is this a work begun at the Ministry of Justice to develop an intermediate form of police training? I have no problem with any of this if it becomes clear what powers they have and what trade union views there are. There are even trade union criticisms about the police volunteers and security guards, and the Government knows that. Are they going to do police work? What powers do they have? Are they supposed to be paid or not? I think that one should be careful, for police operations and the crime prevention work – not least in those areas that are particularly vulnerable – must be able to feel that it is the state, society and police, not the White Power Movements and vigilantes we now see in Västra Götaland, Södermanland and Dalarna. It is very worrying, and it is in the light of what I think there must be clarity on these issues on the part of the government.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-165	Mr President, I would like to I certainly think I was clear in my previous speech, but I will try to be even clearer in the interests of the Liberals and Roger Haddad: the basis of a rule of law is well-trained, competent and paid police officers. That must be the foundation. That main mission cannot be handed over to anyone else. No work is being done at the Ministry of Justice to introduce volunteer police. On the other hand, we are conducting a dialogue at the somewhat more extreme events that have occurred over the past year. We used to have an emergency police force, which the bourgeois government abolished. The reason the bourgeois government did so was that it was not used. If there are intermediate forms between the ordinary citizen and the police that other countries have, which are interesting and which we could learn from in Sweden – for example England and Holland have been raised in the discussion – I am prepared to conduct that discussion with Roger Haddad and others. What's the best shape? What's the most useful thing for us? I am of course happy to have that discussion with the police union, which is usually a constructive part of developing Swedish police. In Holland, the police are fully trained but at a low speed, which means that they all have police officers' authority but have another job on the side. It is similar in that way to the part-time firemen we have in Sweden. It is interesting to look at, but we are also happy to look at England and other suggestions. However, it is – and I want to be clear here again – the well-trained and paid police force that must form the basis. It is therefore gratifying that the government has taken the initiative to improve police education and to gain proper university status, which strengthens the attractiveness of police officers in the rest of the labour market. It is therefore gratifying that today we have more policemen than any bourgeois government and that today we are spending more resources on the police than we have ever done before. It is a good basis for discussing other forms of police or police activities.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-169	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that it becomes unclear when Anders Ygeman in Dagens Samhälle, Norrlands-Kuriren and Smålandsposten say that we should have volunteer police. They're writing about the volunteer police statement. In the written reply to the interpellation, he claims that it is police volunteers he means. But now I hear here that it is not police volunteers he is talking about, but he is talking about an intermediate form. Then write it in the written answer! What's the problem? Yes, we increased the funds, and we increased the number of police officers. This is also stated in the article in Today's Society, on the third page. However, there is also a criticism that the increase in the number of police officers has not led to more solved crimes. It is a lack of quality that we are going to tackle. In the written answer I have received, there is also an indication that there is a need for additional resources and that we need more police officers. That is something the Liberals agree with. But today's Society of 25 February says: "More police officers do not solve the problem. " As I understand it, the Government Office and the Ministry of Justice have not submitted any corrections to the Society of Today. What's the deal? Do we need more cops or not? Will there be a new intermediate form or not?
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-172	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad's few are enough if he's going to engage in this kind of debate go to the trouble of reading more than one sentence at a time. It is, however, as Roger Haddad puts it, three pages where I am discussing different forms of development for Swedish police. I would like to say that it is quite clear to the reader of today's Society what kind of discussion I have had and that it is not possible to replace real, trained police officers with volunteers. The latter quote Roger Haddad reads about the fact that it is not enough just to add more police officers if you do not tackle the basic problems of the police organization. We must remove unnecessary tasks from the police, and we must have tools that enable the police to work better and smarter. We need to increase the clearance rate of crime. You can't just pour more cops. The Alliance added more police during its time in power, and I think that was good. It was a decision we supported. At the same time, however, the clearance rate fell, and then we have to conclude that we also have to do other things. It is good to add more emissions, but we also need to look at other parts of the police organisation in order to improve people's security and increase confidence in the rule of law.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-175	Mr President, I would like to Rasmus Ling and Leif Jakobsson have asked me what I intend to do to ensure that workers on the Danish side should not have worse conditions for the granting of mortgages than workers on the Swedish side. From a consumer perspective, it is important that employees have the opportunity to apply for mortgages with banks and other institutions that grant mortgages. On the other hand, it is up to institutions to carry out a proper credit assessment in accordance with the assessment criteria and credit risk established by the institution under the applicable rules. Precisely regulating how institutions' credit assessment is to be carried out is neither reasonable nor the right way to go. Before setting out the measures taken by the government, I would like to stress that several of the measures in the form of border and ID controls taken in the Öresund region due to the refugee situation are of a temporary nature, although they can be extended. With regard to the consumer perspective, which I initially touched upon, the government is working in several areas with the aim of, among other things, increasing the choice for customers. In Swedish law, creditors from other countries can already access data from the databases of credit information companies in Sweden. According to the so-called Mortgage Directive, which is now being implemented in Europe, Swedish creditors who provide home credit are also to have equivalent access to foreign databases. In addition, the Mortgage Directive contains specific provisions on mortgage credit in foreign currency. This means, among other things, that creditors should offer consumers taking out foreign currency loans protection against the exchange rate risks to which they are exposed and special warnings about such risks. Consumer protection in this area is now improving. Furthermore, on 10 December 2015, the European Commission published a Green Paper on retail financial services. The Green Paper seeks to identify and dismantle barriers with a view to creating a well-functioning internal market for retail financial services and products. The aim is to make it easier for companies and customers to operate across borders, leading to increased choice, better competition, more jobs and growth. The Commission is particularly interested in the potential of digitisation to facilitate cross-border trade. The government has welcomed the Commission's Green Paper and communicated its support for initiatives aimed at promoting cross-border trade, increasing competition, strengthening the internal market and increasing customer choice. Within the framework of the Green Paper, the Swedish Government is considering, among other things, the need and usefulness of more accessible personal and credit information systems. The Commission intends to present concrete proposals in the summer of 2016 but will discuss the consultation responses and the priority areas during the spring. Sweden is therefore very much involved in identifying and dismantling barriers in order to create a well-functioning internal market for financial services and products to, among others, private individuals.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-185	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the government is in favour of cross-border trade, commuting, services and choice. It is also good and important to see the potential of digitalisation, not least from the perspective of cross-border labour markets. It is also good to strengthen opportunities to live and work in different countries. Many people live on the Swedish side of Öresund and have a job in Denmark. Some time ago we could read in Sydsvenskan that the state bank SBAB no longer grants loans to customers working in Denmark. It was troubling to read this. It affects individuals in a decisive way. Being able to get a loan for your home is fundamental. It also sends negative and boring signals to those who do not work on the Danish side but who might consider doing so. That is why it is an important issue to deal with. The fact that the EU is taking the measures outlined by the Government is welcome. It is good that the government has welcomed the Green Paper launched by the Commission in December. I therefore expect the government to monitor developments closely. Mr President, I would like to Denmark has a partly different system in the labour market. It has a flexicurity model that combines greater flexibility with greater security. There are advantages and disadvantages to such a system. The disadvantage is that it is easier to quit someone or to be dismissed. The advantage is that the security system is more generous. For differences from Sweden you can get a ‐ checkout after a shorter period even if you choose to resign yourself. This has meant that Denmark has had easier access to the labour market for young and newcomers. However, Denmark has had greater difficulties in recovering from the financial crisis. Regardless of what the labour market systems look like, it is not a good idea to be disadvantaged by risking not being able to borrow from a home. I thank you for your reply and send the government to follow up the EU Green Paper carefully to facilitate cross-border financial services. The government will also facilitate trade, travel and work with our neighbours in various areas, whether it is the possibility to buy a house or apartment, travel smoothly and freely, run a business, study or other. We have a Minister for the Nordic Countries, but that does not mean that there is no perspective on such issues in all or at least the vast majority of ministers.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-194	Mr President, I would like to Border barriers are a priority for the government. There is active work in the form of a Border Barriers Council where, together with the other Nordic countries, people graze barriers after obstacles and look at what needs to be done concretely to get a smooth commuting at a distance that is actually like commuting from Uppsala to Stockholm. It is not about people who spend the week or who sometimes work in another country, but it is a daily commuting and a life where you will get together to pick up and leave your children, pay your bills and have contact with your bank – a normal everyday life. It is there to rejoice that the government prioritises to graze the border barriers. However, one priority which must also be clear is to ensure that new border barriers do not arise. Over the years, we have seen that, as we graze border barriers, new border barriers are added. There is now a structured work at the Government Office to ensure that new border barriers do not arise. That is very good, and I would like to thank the Government and the Minister in particular for that. When it comes to bringing together everyday life, this kind of action by individual actors makes it even more difficult to commute borders. This means that we risk losing out on the positive development that we can achieve by building a common region, for example around Öresund. I do not question the Minister's descriptions in the answer; that is a good answer. However, we need to have a strategy to deal with the issues that we cannot deal with through legislation. We must also have a strategy for how we, together with other actors, ensure that priority is given to those people who commute across borders and who thus contribute to the development of the whole country. It is good that the government prioritises the issue. It would also be useful for the Minister to send out a clear signal that the action we are now seeing makes cross-border commuting more difficult and that, in turn, it is worrying for the development of our border regions. It is good that we are both legislative and opinion-forming.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-201	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the interpellant and also Rikard Larsson for an important debate. It is excellent that these issues are highlighted in the Riksdag. In particular, I would like to thank you for your commitment to the Öresund region and integration into the Nordic region. It is very clear from the government that we want to further develop cooperation in the Nordic countries. We think that the good cooperation that has existed for a long time is very valuable. We want to continue to deepen cooperation and make it work more and more smoothly. Now we have ended up in a situation that has unfortunately forced us to take decisions on identity checks and border controls. The government realises that it unfortunately also has effects on commuting conditions in, for example, the Öresund region. In this respect, I would like to emphasise that it is a matter of temporary legislation. We hope that it will be possible to resolve this issue shortly. Of course, we need to create opportunities in other ways too. It is about people being able to live in one country and work and work in the other country and also have a functioning economy. It is clear from this that only some banks have taken these measures. When I have studied the argument behind it, it is precisely because it is a distance bank. It simply does not have offices in place and therefore cannot meet customers directly but depends on receiving information via, for example, the Enlightenment Centre or other channels. However, as a bank customer in the Öresund region, for example, you can choose which bank you go to. It is then possible to choose to go to several banks in order to obtain a loan. We in the government are constantly trying to create the best possible conditions for cross-border business and also service activities. This includes the work on the Mortgage Directive. It will be possible to obtain information on economic conditions in other countries so that you can feel secure in being able to provide loans. It is important to continue that work. It is a work that will not be done in a short time. There is a need to take many and comprehensive measures to remove some border barriers that unfortunately exist today. The Green Paper, which will now be published, states that cross-border financial services are very rare in Europe. This is about only a few percent of the financial transactions that take place with a customer in one country and a bank in another country. Here I think there are great opportunities to develop it further. The Commission has now begun work on the inclusion of proposals on what measures might be needed. Sweden has been active there. We will continue to work on deepening and improving the possibility of economic integration. It is about being able to get good living conditions even if you have your place of residence in one country but are active in another country. Of course, we will also continue to monitor developments and be deeply involved in the process that continues to bring Swedish perspectives in. This applies, for example, to the current circumstances in the Öresund region.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-210	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the government's response states that border and ID controls are of a temporary nature and that it hopes that they will soon be removed. It is important to point out in this House, too, the disadvantages that border and ID controls have brought to the Öresund region. There are costs for people in terms of time, irritation, uncertainty and hassle. As it takes so much longer, uncertainty arises as to whether people should be able to pick up children in preschool or have time for family or leisure activities. There are also costs for companies and costs for carriers. The easiest thing would be to remove the barrier that exists right now. I hope that it will also be possible to come back to this issue. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry presented a report on the cost of the ongoing measures. It is estimated that it is $3 million a day. In Malmö it has been estimated that one in ten people who have been on their way to work have gone over to the Danish side. Unfortunately, the share has fallen slightly in recent years. The number of people who do so is not only affected by the nature of the regulatory system, but also the economic situation plays a major role. Those who walk around in shops and visit restaurants at Kastrup, Copenhagen Airport, will likely meet with Swedes and not Danes among those who work. This also applies to jobs without the need for longer education. There are also many well-educated people who work in Copenhagen and elsewhere in Denmark. Municipalities that have many people working in another country also have lower unemployment than can be seen in the official statistics because people are not registered in the same way in the systems. This means that municipalities such as Malmö receive less tax revenue than they would have had if people had worked in their own municipality. The tax is paid in Denmark and enters a redistribution system under an agreement between the countries. The tax treaty that exists was signed in the 1990s. This is something that should be negotiated because it puts Sweden at a rather disadvantage compared to Denmark in a rather severe way. Mr President, I would like to Our intention to raise the issue of mortgage facilities was not that the government should precisely regulate how individual institutions should make their credit assessment. But we are opposed to people being completely rejected as borrowers because they have their employment in another country. They should not be discriminated against in such a way. There must, of course, be proper credit information. But it has to be based on other things than where people work. If proper credit information is not provided, there is a risk of other problems if this happens across the financial market.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-217	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to hear the Minister's commitment. A great deal of commitment is needed on these issues because they are not simple issues. It is often a matter of rules, legislation and agreements between several parties and several countries. It's not easy. I share the Minister's and the Government's assessment of the need for the identification checks and border controls. This gives even more reason to look quickly at the other border barriers that exist for work commuters. For a cross-border commuter, it is about the combined picture. It is the mortgages, kindergartens, commuting, insurance and tax systems. It is a very complex picture that people have to take into account when they commute borders. The easier we make it for border commuters to make their decisions, the better it is. It is partly about those who live on one side of the Strait and work on the other side of the Strait. But it is perhaps even more about those who are thinking of working on the other side of the strait. In a dynamic region, where they should be able to commute easily, it also wants them to make the decision to take a job on the other side of the strait feel confident that it will work. It is this kind of decision, of which in this case other actors than the state, that makes it risk tipping over to saying: No, I do not take the risk. It seems too complicated. It puts development in the region at a disadvantage, and it also puts development in Sweden at a disadvantage.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-223	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the additional comments in the debate. I am pleased that there is a great deal of consensus on the importance of these measures and that it is important that we ensure that economic integration between the countries of the Nordic region, including the Öresund region, can be continuously improved in the future. The measures in the Öresund region are temporary. The Act on Special Measures in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country, which entered into force on 21 December 2015, is limited in time and is valid for three years from its entry into force, i.e. until 21 December 2018. The law provides for the possibility for the government, during this period, to issue regulations on ID checks for up to six months at a time with a withdrawal period of two weeks between each time. As far as economic integration is concerned, I believe that there is much we can do. There is also work going on. The government has already put in considerable effort to create greater opportunities for financial transactions and transactions between countries and across borders. The Mortgage Directive, which is now being transposed and is to be implemented in Europe, means that Swedish creditors and banks that provide loans should be able to access foreign databases in terms of what economic activities individuals have and what their economy looks like. It is about income and debt, for example. The Mortgage Directive contains specific provisions on mortgage credit also in foreign currency. The fact that this is now properly regulated and that it is done in a similar way in all European countries means that it will be easier in the future, for example, to have loans in a bank in one country and have their jobs in another country. That is something I welcome, because I am a great friend of increased international cooperation. Not least in the Nordic countries, I see great opportunities to continue to increase collaboration. Here I think we have an important part of the solution that is already being implemented and implemented. The government and I are in favour of the work being done by the European Commission to review the possibilities for cross-border financial services. The Green Paper that has come is an excellent first step. As we see it, this offers very good opportunities to increase competition, for example on the Swedish financial market, where there are a few players who have a fairly large dominance in the financial markets. We can now bring in an increased number of players to improve competition. I also believe that Swedish banks, which are at the forefront of digitalisation, for example, and being able to offer services in a modern and efficient manner, can gain market shares in other financial markets across Europe. This is a work that the government will prioritise. We believe that it is essential to continue to dismantle border barriers and create opportunities for people, for example, to take out loans or carry out other economic activities in other countries of the European Union as well. The government will continue with the work, and we will make sure that with the funds available we try to make it easier for economic activities so that you can for example live in Sweden but have your job in another country. You should also be able to have a well-functioning economy and not be faced with unnecessary hassle.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-232	Mr President, I would like to The commitment of Per Bolund and the government in general to these issues is positive. They see the great potential that exists in the Öresund region and in other cross-border regions. Policy must seize the opportunities, including technological progress, so that political systems can be adapted to progress at all times. The single biggest success in recent months in the Öresund region has been that several telephone companies have removed the additional charges for surfing in the other country. Suddenly you can use your mobile in exactly the same way as you do if you walk on the streets of Stockholm or any other city in Sweden. This means that you can not least use Google Map's to find, to swis h a or other things that we take for granted and do all the time. But if they do not work or cost money, they suddenly become something difficult or more alien. It is therefore important that the policy should keep up with the developments that are taking place all the time so that it can be taken care of. It is also good, Mr President, that the government is pointing out the need for more players in the financial markets and that competition can be strengthened in different ways. The Mortgage Directive can be part of this, and the Green Paper can be a step towards improvements. With this, I would like to thank you very much for the interpellation response.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-237	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for an important interpellation and for a good discussion. As I said, both me and the government are happy about the good cooperation that exists in the Nordic countries. We see great opportunities to deepen it further for the future. We know that the Nordic region in relation to our population has an important role to play internationally. If we cooperate and cooperate further and more closely in the future, I think we have even greater opportunities to have a strong voice together. But this requires that we continue to deepen our cooperation, and that also applies in the economic field. I know that Minister Kristina Persson works every day to improve the conditions for cooperation and create even greater opportunities to cooperate. But also me and the other government members and ministers work every day to try to deepen integration and create greater opportunities for Nordic cooperation and cooperation within the European Union. In this respect, I believe that the mortgage directive, which is now being implemented in all European countries, and the further work announced by the Commission in the Green Paper that has been published is a clear indication that this is a work that will continue. Sweden will be a strong driver, because we see great opportunities here. By tearing down barriers and creating greater opportunities for economic activity across borders, we have opportunities for increased competitiveness for Sweden. It is also about ensuring that competition in the Swedish financial market is constantly improving. When the new mortgage directives, for example, come into force and are implemented, it will give access to credit information from other countries. I therefore hope that the barriers that we have now seen will be able to disappear in the future.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-242	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked the Minister for Defence if he intends to work for the Government to take a decision on an indoor facility for the Total Defence Protection Centre in Umeå. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The security policy situation in our neighbourhood has deteriorated, and against this background, a new defence policy has been decided by the Riksdag with a broad majority. The single most important thing in the coming period is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the collective capability of the total defence. Unfortunately, the new world situation also demonstrates the topicality of the threats posed by weapons of mass destruction, both nuclear and biological and chemical. The first CBRN company and Totalförsvarets protection centre in Umeå have an important role in the Swedish total defence. This, together with the activities of Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut in Umeå, means that there are already good conditions for the operation. As regards the construction of an indoor training facility in Umeå, the preparation of this matter is ongoing. When the Swedish Armed Forces or another authority needs changes in their premises or new premises, they turn to their existing landlord or to the open local market to bring about the change. In this case, the Swedish Armed Forces have addressed the Fortifications Agency, which is their landlord in the area in question. The Fortifications Agency then, in consultation with the Swedish Armed Forces, makes proposals for building solutions to meet the tenant's needs. If an investment is greater than SEK 20 million, the Fortificationsverket must turn to the regeri ngen with a request to carry out the investment. The present case, which concerns the construction of an indoor training facility for the Total Defence Protection Centre in Umeå, constitutes such an investment. Following a request from the Fortificationsverket, the previous government approved the investment within an investment framework of SEK 80 million by decision of 18 November 2010. Due to changes in conditions, the Fortificationsverket has since by letter to the Government Office on 19 December 2014 requested a renewed consent to the project with an additional cost of a maximum of SEK 48 million. An indoor training facility would further improve the conditions for developing the Swedish Armed Forces' capabilities in the field. However, the costs of such an investment must be balanced against all other investment needs of the military defence. I cannot, here and now, anticipate the preparation of this dossier.
i-8v6Bur5BgbjGbwPJjGhrWP	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As the Minister says in his reply, the Alliance Government approved in 2010 the Fortificationsverket's request to build a new indoor training facility for CBRN in Umeå within a framework of SEK 80 million. Shortly before Christmas 2014, after the new S- and MP government had taken office, the Fortifications Agency came with a new request for a renewed government consent to start building the training facility with an expanded framework, as described by the Minister. The Minister says that the matter is being prepared within the Government Office, and that is the background to my raising the issue in this House. It has been a very long time, and I think that the government should now speed up the handling of the matter so that we can start building this facility in Umeå. Sweden's competence centre for CBRN is located in Umeå. We have the Total Defence Protection Centre, Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut, the European Cbrne Centre and Umeå University. Together, they provide too much expertise in chemical, biological, radioactive and nuclear warfare and the fight against terrorism. Given today's security policy situation, it is necessary to have a high level of liquidity and rapid response preparedness to protect life and health in Sweden while assisting internationally when required. I am proud of all those who work with these questions in Umeå. They are good and have great knowledge. Their capacity for action is an important national resource. Today, the armed forces in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland travel to Canada to practice with expensive transport costs as a result of which we do not have an indoor training facility for CBRN in the immediate area. This also means that the other parts of the total defence cannot to the extent that we would like to be able to practice with these means. If we build a facility, the level of use of the defense might be between 75 and 80 percent. This would allow for a substantial increase in the competence of the other parts of the total defence system, which would be needed, for example, in the event of a crisis resulting from a terrorist attack. Then we would have better education and higher preparedness in our country. Let me say, however, that we already have a great deal of expertise in this area. We also have good response preparedness, but it could be much better. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new CBRN-indoor training facility in order to practice sharply. All that is needed for it to be built in Umeå is a decision from the government. I call on the Minister to urgently complete the preparations now under way at the Government Office and to take a positive decision on this matter.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-253	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Edward Riedl for the question. As I said in my answer, the government's view is that an indoor training facility would further improve the conditions for developing the Swedish Armed Forces' capabilities in this area. At the same time, the costs of an investment of this magnitude must always be balanced against the other investment needs that also exist in defence. In an overall perspective, it must also be a reasonable investment that comes about. Here, of course, we must start from the new defence policy direction that a broad majority has decided here in Parliament in June 2015. This approach shows that the single most important thing in defence policy in the coming years is to increase the operational capacity of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. We must also take into account the desire that has come to have an indoor training facility. This is an issue which we obviously think is important, but at the same time we must weigh the cost of this against the costs and needs of other areas. The alliance made a decision within a framework of SEK 80 million. After that, this project has been considerably increased. Then it is reasonable to re-evaluate and consider whether the fairly significantly increased cost nevertheless corresponds to the benefit that comes from having an indoor training facility like this. Cases of this nature require rather careful consideration which, in addition to an analysis of needs, may also include other considerations. So this is urgent. Unfortunately, I cannot give any precise information as to when a decision can be expected, but I can guarantee that my hope is that the matter will not drag out too long.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-257	Madam President, I would like In my first post, I briefly highlighted the arguments for urgently starting to build the new indoor training facility in Umeå, not least because of the current security situation in our surrounding world with terrorist threats that have become even more real. From a good level, as I said earlier, Sweden should rise further. It is precisely the changed state of security policy that is the background to the agreement between the Alliance and the government on increased defence appropriations, which is basically good and also provides the opportunity to strengthen competence in this area. It's very important. Two reasons for making the financial investment are not least the transport costs that we already have every year for transporting equipment and personnel to Canada to carry out this type of training and exercise with sharp means. It costs a lot of money, and it should of course be weighed against this investment. The fact that we do not have our own training facility means that the other parts of the total defense cannot practice with these sharp means. This means that such a facility would greatly increase our own ability within the borders of the kingdom in the rest of the total defense. That would be welcome, I mean, given the security policy situation. I think it is time to stop preparing this issue and actually go to decisions. I can understand that the Minister does not want to anticipate the preparation that is going on at the Government Office, and he is not going to do so either. But, Madam President, let me ask the Minister a few other questions. Does the Minister think – and in splendor he has answered yes – that this facility in Umeå is needed to further develop Swedish capabilities in the field of CBRN? The Minister was also aware that he cannot give an exact indication of how long it can take before we get a decision, but I wonder whether it will happen within the year or even within the term of office. What is the minister's time horizon for this? It is urgent to develop Swedish defence capabilities in this area. It takes time to build the facility, and it takes time to train and train the other parts of the total defense.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-263	Madam President, I would like I would like to answer the questions as far as I am able to do so. Regarding the issue of whether the facility is needed, both my view and the government's view are that an indoor training facility like this would further improve the conditions for developing the Swedish Armed Forces' capabilities in this particular area. I am just like Edward Riedl happy that there is such a high level of competence in this area in the Swedish Armed Forces. It provides security for all of us, because, of course, we all, I believe, are concerned about the effect that the use of this type of weapon could have on Swedish society and what damage it could cause. The government is keen that there is a high level of competence, and I am pleased that such competence already exists. Of course, our ambition is to create the best possible conditions for this business. At the same time, it is an ambitious defence policy that has now been adopted by the Swedish Parliament in broad agreement and which entails investment needs in many different areas. It is an extensive supply of equipment that is at hand, both within the air force and the navy and in other parts of the Swedish Armed Forces. Of course, it will also require investments from the Fortificationsverket for example in buildings, facilities and the like. Therefore, the Government has a great responsibility to carefully assess the various requests that come from different parts of the Armed Forces and the defence operations. We are responsible for ensuring that the money we spend and invest makes the most of it. We are doing everything we can to deal with the issues as quickly as possible and to make such an overall assessment. I can assure you that my ambition is that this matter should not drag on for too long. I cannot present a timetable for the exact moment when such a decision can be taken in this debate. But, as I said, the hope is to be able to come back with a reply on the matter as quickly as possible.
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-269	Madam President, I would like The minister himself is on it. In the end, it is about exactly that, that is, security in Swedish society. In the event of a terrorist attack or a major industrial accident in which chemical agents are spread in the air, we do not just need what is in Umeå. What's in there is good. There's a lot of know-how there. We have the capacity to respond to major attacks and international efforts. We can also contribute to what is happening in the world around us, even when it is to be measured and looked at whether chemical or biological weapons have been used, for example, in the conflict in Syria. There we have an important role to play. But it is also a matter of quickly having a great deal of knowledge in all parts of total defence throughout our country. Umeå can then contribute as a centre of expertise and with a training facility can ensure that the knowledge is spread far out into the different parts of the total defense. It is gratifying that the Minister has a positive view of getting the construction started in Umeå. I also take the Minister's reply as a whole as a positive one. I am sorry that there is no precise timetable. However, I have some understanding that the Minister cannot give such an answer in this House. Nevertheless, I urge the Minister to speed up the preparation. We need to raise skills in this area. I think it should happen this year. Otherwise, I will come back and we will have more debates on this. That is certainly very nice. But it would be even nicer if a training facility could be completed in Umeå so that we can raise the competence in the area. With that, I wish the President and the Minister a pleasant weekend!
i-d78c2c386ef90d85-275	Madam President, I would like I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Edward Riedl for the interpellation. It raises questions about an important area. Of course, we are very pleased that we are getting even better and increased competence in dealing with such threats. Unfortunately, they are a reality in the world in which we now live. We need to ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces have the ability to build and maintain competence in this area. When a project is increased in this way – it is a cost increase of more than 50% – one must re-evaluate the value and weigh it against other urgent investments that need to be made. However, we see that there is a need and that an indoor training facility could play an important role in further improving the capabilities of the Swedish Armed Forces in areas such as chemical weapons, chemical accidents and the like. We are working intensively to deal with the issue. I look forward to discussing this issue in the future. Hopefully, then, we can also give clear answers.
