i-6mDo7fp2WGQ5rTcFoNyvty	The motion is about helping the civilian population in Aleppo. The motion proposes announcements to the government on urgent measures to increase the Swedish emergency humanitarian aid to the affected civilian population in Aleppo and on specific interventions to affected children. The incident referred to is the acute humanitarian crisis for the civilian population from Eastern Aleppo. The motion was postponed at yesterday's sitting. After consulting the group leaders, I have concluded that there is no reason to wake up the exercise with the support of Chapter 9. Section 15, the Parliamentary Order. The House should therefore add the motion to the documents without reference to committees. As a reason for my assessment, I would like to state the following: the right to initiate exercise on account of an event of greater importance was introduced in connection with the 1974 constitutional reform. The draft Constitution underlined the exceptional nature of the proposed provision. Parliament has also applied the regulation restrictively. A prerequisite for a exercise to be awakened due to an event of greater weight is that the event could not be predicted or taken into account during the general exercise time or any other exercise time specified in Chapter 9. Parliament's order of business. After consulting the group leaders, I consider that the event referred to by the motionaries does not constitute an event which allows exercise rights under Chapter 9. Section 15, the Parliamentary Order. I therefore find that there are obstacles, according to Chapter 11. Section 7 The Parliamentary Order, against referring the motion to committees. I therefore propose that the House add the motion to the documents without reference to committees. Is this acceptable? The answer is yes.
i-579237035760c3c2-9	Ladies and gentlemen! It's been an intense autumn term. I have to say, it feels like time has passed very quickly. It is already time for some closing words in this House before we part before Christmas. During the autumn you have had a lot of debates in this House. I believe that the changes in the Rules of Procedure, Question Time and other things that we have made this year are familiar to you. We keep looking at the forms of work and making changes to find the best possible way for you to carry out your policies. But there are more news that is now coming, which you may not be fully familiar with yet. Work on developing a Code of Conduct for Members of Parliament has now come to an end and will start to apply on 1 January. The code of conduct has been adopted by me, the Vice-Presidents and the group leaders on behalf of all Members. Yesterday, you received the code of conduct sent to you by email, and you will receive more information at the beginning of 2017. The Code of Conduct has collected and described key regulatory frameworks that are relevant to the role of Members. It creates clarity for both the voters and the chosen ones. The Code of Conduct is a way of safeguarding confidence in the Riksdag. The code also introduces some new arrangements, such as the fact that some debts should now also be notified to the economic register. The obligation to notify applies from 1 January, but there is a period of four weeks from that date. Another innovation is the gift register, where members must report gifts above a certain value so that they are registered. It will be everywhere that they should be registered. Let me be clear, then, that what it means is that the gifts should be handed over to the parliamentary administration. So gifts of a certain value must not be retained; they must be recorded and handed over to the administration. If you then want to use a gift, you can collect it from the Riksdag administration and use it on one occasion. I know what the gifts we get as Members usually look like – I will say no more than that. However, in order for there to be no doubt, the Service Centre of the Riksdag Administration will help you in all these respects and thus also determine the value of the gift you have received. If it is necessary to register and submit or if it is not, you should not have to feel responsible for it, but rather the service centre of the Riksdag Administration. I would also like to emphasise that it is only a matter of gifts that come with the Member's mandate, that is, not Christmas gifts. Ladies and gentlemen! Recently we celebrated the 250 years of the Swedish Freedom of the Press Regulation. This was done with a seminar and with a solid book on the importance, development and history of the Freedom of the Press Regulation in Sweden and Finland – a solid work. The book can be ordered at rikslagen.se. Do it! We are also preparing the Parliament's celebration of the upcoming centenary of Swedish democracy. However, this celebration will be more prolonged than just a single day, because there is not a date on which it can be said that democracy was introduced in full at the time. No, it was an event that went on for a long time, which of course gives us a good reason to celebrate for several years. Starting in 2018 and ending in 2022, the Riksdag will pay attention to, discuss and celebrate democracy. All the suggestions and ideas that Members have about how this celebration should be done are received with gratitude. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for your good work and good debates in the autumn. I would also like to thank the Vice-Presidents, the group leaders and the members of the Riksdag Board for their good cooperation and the Director of Parliament and the administration for their work well done. I wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-579237035760c3c2-22	On behalf of Members and the administration, I would like to thank the President for the past year and wish him and his family a happy Christmas and a happy New Year.
i-579237035760c3c2-23	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Pethrus has asked me the reasons for the government's decision to phase out the form of employment traineeships for asylum seekers and whether I can give you any information as to whether the 15 000 traineeships for which the Migration Agency has drawn up agreements can be implemented. Furthermore, I have been asked whether there is a risk that interrupted traineeships may delay the entry of newcomers into the labour market. The number of people applying for asylum in the EU and Sweden in 2015 exceeded all forecasts. For 2014 and 2015, the total number of asylum seekers per capita was the highest ever registered in an OECD country. In the next few years, many new arrivals will become established in Sweden. The situation in which Sweden finds itself poses huge challenges but at the same time opportunities. It is important that the time when the individual is in the asylum process can be taken into account and used in a meaningful way. This is particularly to facilitate and speed up the future establishment in the labour market and in the social life of the person granted a residence permit, but also to avoid, for example, mental illness or social unrest in connection with construction housing. The need for early intervention for asylum seekers and persons who have a residence permit but live in the Finnish Immigration Service's housing facilities has increased, partly as a result of the sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers and longer processing times in the agency's review activities. The mission of the Finnish Immigration Service has included offering organised employment to asylum seekers. The Government announced already in the 2016 spring bill and further proposes in the 2017 budget proposal that a new structure for early intervention for asylum seekers and for persons with residence permits living in the Finnish Immigration Service's housing establishments be introduced from 2017. The county administrative boards are given responsibility for coordinating and organising early interventions, which are aimed, among other things, at strengthening asylum seekers' knowledge of Swedish and Swedish society, and for other start-up measures. The details of how to deal with organised employment for asylum seekers are currently being prepared in the Government Office. It is positive that employers have shown a commitment to introducing asylum seekers into the Swedish labour market. In addition, many asylum seekers are expected to be granted a residence permit in the near future, and a large proportion of these will thus be covered by the employment agency's establishment mandate. In a joint press release from Arbetsförmedlingen and the Finnish Immigration Service in early December, it was announced that the Swedish Immigration Service's letter of intent on internships with a number of major employers will be taken over by Arbetsförmedlingen. The Employment Service has already started discussions with these employers on how the agreements can be used so that the agency has access to more internships.
i-579237035760c3c2-30	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I wrote the interpellation because the issue of traineeships and finding some kind of employment for asylum seekers engages us Christian Democrats. It is not good to go and wait in passivity for a long time. We know that it affects the activity of long-term sick people when it comes, for example, to seeking another job. It's easy to get into an alienation. We know that the establishment of the labour market takes a very long time for the people who come here. There are about 140 000 people waiting for answers to their asylum application. The Migration Agency, which has managed to shake up more internships than the Employment Service for this group, has produced 15 000 internships through various private companies. Now it is said that this should not continue. That is a shame, because employment is needed from day one. In its reply, the Government says that the county boards are given responsibility for coordinating and organising early interventions. Do these early interventions also involve internships? Will the county administrative boards ensure that people are employed? The Government goes on to say that the details of how to handle organised employment for asylum seekers are currently being prepared in the Government Office. What does that mean? What's being prepared? The Government then says: a letter of intent by the Finnish Immigration Service about internships with a number of major employers will be taken over by Arbetsförmedlingen. Does it apply to asylum seekers or those who are in the start-up phase and have already been granted a residence permit? Then we still miss the goal of reaching asylum seekers from day one. It is unfortunate if the government thinks that it is okay with passivity, although the Migration Board's investigation times will decrease.
i-579237035760c3c2-37	Mr President, I would like to That is a good question, Mrs Pethrus, and I will try to answer a little more clearly in this House. I obviously share the view that passivity is harmful. It is very important that, even during the period of asylum, activities are started, both to start establishment and to avoid ill-health and social unrest. We are in an extremely strained situation. We have had several debates about it in the past, and also yesterday. The challenge we face in getting people into the labour market can hardly be overestimated. It's very big. The number of people in Arbetsförmedlingen's systems will increase dramatically. The Finnish Immigration Service has given high priority in order to be able to shorten the processing times. It has taken some time in the run-in and training of new employees. However, there is now a very high rate of processing asylum cases, with a target of 100,000 completed cases this year. This means that we are moving towards a situation where we may already be down in six months' time to normal processing times of three months. At the same time, we get a lot of people who are granted a residence permit and who are to be taken care of in the second system. This means that the government considers that we need to shift the focus from the asylum period to the start-up efforts in terms of work. However, there is still a great need for asylum seekers to have employment, start with Swedish from day one, be able to participate in various activities, be able to make study visits to workplaces, learn about Swedish society, be able to participate in various non-profit organisations' activities and be able to get in touch with employers and the world of work in different ways. It is precisely the internships that are organised so that it is a special law that affects how the work environment law and other laws apply to those who do the internship, and it is special insurance that applies. The Finnish Immigration Service is responsible for this. The Finnish Immigration Service currently has 4,800 people in practice. This will not be interrupted in any dramatic way, but the Migration Agency will continue to decide on new internships until 31 December. This means that there will continue to be internships under the auspices of the Migration Agency and with current insurance policies during the first half of 2017. It will be a phase-out while, we expect, processing times will be dramatically reduced. Désirée Pethrus asks what is being prepared. The regulation that governs how resources for early intervention can be used cannot be decided by the government until the Parliament has put the budget together, as you have just done. Only after this can the government decide on the regulation, and I therefore replied that the regulation is being prepared. That's what we do before we can make decisions. The Finnish Immigration Service states that declarations of intent have been made with employers of 15,000 seats. It's amazing. These employers' contacts take over the Employment Service, and it is already quite advanced to contact the various employers. There is a great willingness on the part of employers to make traineeships available to new arrivals. It is, of course, among them that the need for various efforts to get to work will increase dramatically. With regard to the 15 000 seats mentioned, among other things, in the media, 10 000 are made up of the fact that Linkedin has offered to advertise. There are thus 5 000 fixed traineeships available. The Employment Service is currently working on contacting these employers.
i-579237035760c3c2-48	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer, but I do not feel really satisfied. The answer I get from the Government is in principle that internships will be offered to new arrivals, i.e. those who have the asylum period behind them. We don't know what the future will look like. The future is uncertain when it comes to, for example, Aleppo and how the migration and influx of asylum seekers into Sweden becomes. I think that we must therefore maintain some form of employment actively while we are asylum seekers. Swedish education and social orientation have unfortunately not been compulsory. For example, many women have not received it because men have not found it okay. Unfortunately, I sometimes get signals that women do not come out on activities at all, but are almost trapped in asylum homes. I think we need to have a much greater focus on what the situation looks like on asylum accommodations and increase activity and get people started already there. As in our proposal for an asylum programme, it may be compulsory to read Swedish from day one. I think Denmark is starting to learn the language right away. You should learn about Swedish social values and how Swedish society works. There should also be employment. This employment may be to participate in the activities of the accommodation, have an internship, get a job or be activated through an organisation active in these matters. As I said, I am not quite satisfied with the Minister's reply. It has turned out that several private companies have withdrawn their offers because they feel that they have not received a good response from either Arbetsförmedlingen or the Migration Agency when it comes to what it should look like after New Year. I would like to hear the Minister say clearly that we are going to have a type of employment and that we are going to have the ambition that people should be active during the asylum process.
i-579237035760c3c2-56	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to give a direct answer to this: yes, we shall have a very high level of ambition in terms of activities and employment during the period of asylum. The recent budget shows that we are increasing the resources for early intervention in order to make even more use of civil society, not least, and to ensure that all asylum seekers in a region are covered. This also applies to Swedish education. I can tell Désirée Pethrus that after our migration agreement we have looked at the possibility of compulsory Swedish education and social orientation. There are directives for this. I think it is precisely today that the other parties in the migration settlement are being contacted on this issue to see if we have understood things in the same way so that we can decide to proceed with this. I think it is very important. You should definitely be active, have contact with working life and be busy. I fully share this view and we need to raise the level of ambition there. However, we should also be aware that when two different authorities contact the same employer about traineeships for asylum seekers or new arrivals, it is not easy for employers to understand the difference and know what is what. We have made the assessment that we must now focus on those who have been granted a residence permit. There are a lot of people at the moment that you have to work with. I have not been informed that employers have withdrawn. On the contrary, according to the reports I have received so far, after the Employment Service has taken over contacts, employers have replied: yes, the important thing for us is that we can make a contribution and that it contributes to our recruitment. It is clear that there is a further increase in the likelihood of working with people who have been granted a residence permit. We have also been in contact with organizations such as Jobpånget and others who make important efforts to find smooth transitions. My view is that there is a positive approach from the various actors in this. Finally, it is true, Mrs Pethrus, that the future is uncertain. We may need to make changes again. That's it. It is important to look at how we can best use society's resources to meet the challenges we face in many areas. At the moment, we see that the time in the asylum process is being shortened, while the number of people in the start-up phase is increasing dramatically. We know how extremely important it is to get into the labour market and get in direct contact with employers and that there will be early action during the asylum period and more focus on direct work for those who have been granted a residence permit.
i-KCCaDhsqRTzxjALwQmbw3A	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I do not feel completely convinced about what the future will be and whether there will be an active asylum examination period in terms of employment. As for what I referred to earlier about private companies, I saw in the Entrepreneur newspaper an interview with the CEO of Ambea, who will now withdraw from their ambitious internship plans. That is what I have heard, and I do not know whether the Minister has received other signals about these internships. The main thing is that the Minister says that they want activities during this phase. I can't quite see it in the Minister's answer. Finally, I have a question. Mikael Ribbenvik, acting Director General of the Migration Agency, has said in a press release that with the short processing time now expected, there is no longer a need for internships, but will concentrate on the core business. Then there is not so much employment, sfi and so on, but one thinks of something quite different. How does the Government view this?
i-579237035760c3c2-68	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to Ambea, I won't swear I have the right information. The information I have is that it has been stated that it wants trainees to be able, above all, to recruit staff. It is clear that the likelihood of getting the right contributions for trainees increases once they have received their residence permit and can receive support from the Public Employment Service in the form of additional training and other things. My picture is that Ambea welcomes to receive people with a residence permit. It is true that the Migration Agency will end with early efforts, but we move it all to the county boards, which coordinate all the efforts made by peoples' education with Swedish from day one and all the efforts made by NGOs and others. We are expanding the county boards' resources for this. The Migration Agency focuses on its part. It is not a reduction in ambition but, on the contrary, an increase in ambition when it comes to early intervention during the asylum process. On the other hand, an internship, which is often in six months, may not be as relevant anymore when processing times are hopefully shortened. If there were to be a completely different development, we would have to be prepared to make new decisions. I would like to wish Mrs Pethrus a Merry Christmas and thank him for the debate.
i-579237035760c3c2-72	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me if I and the government are prepared to decide on a slower migration rate from the Migration Agency's housing to municipalities with a large housing shortage and whether I and the government intend to take measures to allow municipalities to take back apartment contracts in municipal housing companies from the Migration Agency. Gunilla Nordgren has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative as a matter of urgency to introduce a break in the Migration Board's instructions for refugees to the municipalities. The Constitution Act entered into force on 1 March this year after a decision by a large majority in the Riksdag. I am pleased that we agree that all municipalities must be involved in taking responsibility for the reception of new arrivals. Through the Housing Act, we have laid the foundations for a reception that can contribute to better conditions for the establishment of new arrivals in Sweden. One consequence of the Housing Act is that municipalities must take into account the reception of new arrivals in their planning of housing provision in the municipality. Municipalities that have not built dwellings for many years can no longer refrain from receiving new arrivals on the grounds that there is no housing. It is no alternative that people who have been granted a residence permit stay in the Finnish Immigration Service's accommodation instead of being received in a municipality and starting their establishment in Sweden. The combination of several years of low housing and a record number of asylum seekers last autumn means that it is now a major challenge for municipalities to cope with reception. The government has recently announced measures to facilitate the emergency situation. In order to give municipalities time to arrange accommodation for new arrivals, the Government intends to make it possible to extend the period from the instruction decision to the reception in the municipality for a maximum of four months for the instruction decision taken in 2016. As before, instructions for 2017 apply that reception in the municipality must take place no later than two months from the decision on instructions. In addition, the Government intends to lower the county figures for 2017 against the background of the Migration Agency's new lower forecast for reception needs. When calculating the county figures, the municipality's reception of new arrivals who live on their own should have a greater impact. The Government also conducts a dialogue with the Finnish Immigration Service on the importance of municipalities receiving information about the ongoing decommissioning of temporary housing and where they are located.
i-579237035760c3c2-80	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I wrote the interpellation to the Government just over a month ago. The reason for this was, of course, that it is currently a very strained situation in many of Sweden's municipalities. The difficulties in finding good housing at reasonable cost for people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden are described from various sources. The City of Stockholm has launched a procurement of hotel rooms and has also prepared dormitories. In Jönköping, new arrivals have lived in wooden stalls in a former car hall. There are several municipalities, not just Stockholm, who warn that both tents and gymnasiums may be relevant. In parallel with this situation, the Migration Agency is dismantling fully functioning asylum accommodations. This decommissioning is, of course, associated with very high costs. Only this year, more than SEK 200 million has been paid by the Migration Agency to external companies for unused locations. All of this is, of course, quite unreasonable and not an effective use of our common resources. I believe there are strong reasons to slow down the move-in. I noted, both in the answer now and earlier when the government and the minister held a press conference, that there is a certain brake on some municipalities. I think it's going to have to go a little longer. Many municipalities are now in a situation that is extremely strained and extremely stressful. In Malmö, many residential apartments have recently been purchased for large amounts of money. It takes place around many municipalities. I can understand that some municipalities feel that they are resorting to this type of tool to deal with the situation. But in the long run, I think it is very unfortunate. It really doesn't feel good that large municipalities in Sweden go in and shop for residential apartments in a very hot housing market. Of course, this automatically affects pricing. In addition, it creates unnecessary frictions between groups in society. Mr President, I would like to I got an answer to a question in my interpellation. It was just about braking. I also asked the Minister another very specific question about all the rental contracts that the Migration Agency has around Sweden, and often in the public interest. There are a little different data on this. According to SKL, it is accommodation for 32,000. It could be something lower. But there are many apartments that create many places for asylum seekers right now. I think a lot about how reasonable it is that the Migration Agency has apartments in the public good when so many people now need a dwelling. It's not just new arrivals who need a place to live. A lot of people need to leave home. People who separate need a place to live. People need housing for many reasons, and the housing situation is so acute. I think it is wrong to allow the Migration Agency, which is the government's authority and which governs, to rent apartments on the market to asylum seekers. My question, to which I have not received an answer but to which I would like an answer, is what the government intends to do with these apartments. Is the government prepared to hand over these contracts to the municipalities that are now in a very strained situation?
i-579237035760c3c2-89	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The large number of asylum seekers who came to Sweden mainly in 2015 will affect our society for a long time to come. We all remember when the Migration Board had to set up camp camps and house people, for example, in the exhibition halls in Malmö. I also visited Trelleborg, where people slept on beds half a meter apart. To now arrange housing is not something you solve in 15 minutes. A lot of action is needed if we are to succeed. The Minister now writes in his reply that, with this residence law, municipalities should include this in their housing plan. It is true that it is included in a plan, but it takes time to get the housing. After a decision on a residence permit, it is a government matter for these people to have a place of residence in order for integration to work well. But all this needs to be resolved locally in the municipalities. County councils and health care are also greatly affected as the number of people and patients increases drastically. In the debate, the Minister has worked hard on some moderate-led municipalities around Stockholm for not being able to receive more. But Sweden consists of more municipalities than these. Many municipalities have great problems reaching their instructional level. The problem is the housing shortage, and this applies to municipalities regardless of political governance. The lack of housing is greatest in Stockholm and the surrounding area as well as in Skåne and Västra Götaland. Municipalities such as Stockholm, Malmö, Gothenburg, Lund, Mölnlycke and Gällivare show that it is not the political color of leadership that matters. Malmö, Lund and several municipalities are preparing dormitories. In Jönköping, new arrivals, as we heard here, live in an old car hall. In Malmö, new arrivals are planned to live in dormitories, churches and mosques. The municipalities are already heavily strained, perhaps mainly in schools and in social services. In addition, the Migration Agency owes the municipalities up to 10 billion, and only in Skåne is it about up to 2 billion, despite promises that one should be caught up by the end of the year. With two weeks left of 2016, just over 50 of the country's municipalities have reached their instructions. At the end of November, the County Administrative Board had a meeting with all 33 municipalities in Skåne, and it was a crisis meeting. This is not because you are not trying to build, but because it takes a long time to get the construction going. I wrote the interpellation to get an answer if you can try to pause, so that the municipalities have a reasonable chance to catch up and avoid inappropriate accommodation. Several council presidents have in letters appealed to the minister to give them the tools to do their job, including my successor in my small municipality of residence. It is a fairly small municipality – next door to Malmö – with 20,000 inhabitants. The municipal real estate company, where I am Vice-Chairman, builds rental apartments so that it is lovely. There's 5,000 in the housing queue. Maybe not everyone is actively searching. But it is perhaps 2 000 – 2 500 who are, that is, 10 percent of the population. It is also not easy to find companies that are prepared to build rental apartments. Building today is expensive, and there is a shortage of labour in the construction industry. This means that rents are high in the newly produced stock. What we must hope for is that the migration chains will free up housing. At the same time it is planned for temporary accommodation in pavilions, caravans etcetera, and then there will be other problems. One of the problems is to have a building permit granted. And if you get it, it will in principle be unconditionally appealed. We Moderates have called for regulatory simplifications, and some will enter into force only on 1 July. It is true that the Minister recently extended the instruction period by two months, but that is not enough. Should I take the Minister's answer as saying that she is not prepared to pause at the direction and that the Migration Board is slowing down? It says in the answer that it is not an option. Then I would like to ask: what is the alternative?
i-579237035760c3c2-106	Mr President, I would like to I was on the Social Security Committee for the last parliamentary term, where we dealt with migration issues. For four years, we repeatedly asked the former Minister for Migration about how to work from the Migration Agency with its own asylum accommodation. It was a question that was completely dismissed from the previous government. We pointed out that the number of asylum seekers was constantly increasing. In 2015, 163 000 people applied for asylum, in 2014 it was 80 000, in 2013 it was 50 000 and in 2012 it was 40 000. So it is nothing new that people have come here. If you're going to build housing, you have to do it in the long term. The former government became known for setting up so many studies on housing construction that one could almost have built a house out of these investigations. But there wasn't much housing. As has been said earlier, the reception is very unevenly distributed. Hällefors and Ljusnarsberg, two municipalities in my county, receive 10 refugees per 1,000 inhabitants. Svedala, Nacka, Lidingö and Täby, to name a few, receive less than one refugee per 1 000 inhabitants. It is clear that this is a great strain, especially for those municipalities that have actually received many refugees. What these figures do not say is that many asylum seekers are also received in these municipalities. Ljusnarsberg, a municipality with 5,000 inhabitants, has had nearly 1 000 asylum seekers, in addition to a large refugee reception. So you take a big responsibility. The previous government also did not want to do anything about the issue of EBO. There were very many settlements in Malmö, Stockholm, Örebro and Södertälje, which of course also affects. So it is a good thing to get the housing building going. This government has done so, but the previous government did not. My question to Elisabeth Svantesson and Gunilla Nordgren is: Do you not think it is important that all municipalities take responsibility? I have heard your party leader stand in the debate and say, at least in the past, that the whole of Europe must take joint responsibility. But where is the responsibility of your party and your representatives in the various municipalities for the construction of rental apartments, so that the municipalities do not have to buy hotel apartments and do not have to sell out the commons?
i-579237035760c3c2-113	Mr President, I would like to I think we can all agree that the situation is very strained. This is really tough for the municipalities. From the outset, we have a housing shortage in 240 of the country's municipalities. For many years, a deficit of housing has been built up. This is a huge concern from the outset, and on top of that we now have a record reception of asylum. Of course this is difficult. I therefore believe that there are no easy ways of remedying the problem. It simply has to be dealt with. I'll explain why I'm saying it's not an option to stay at the Migration Agency's facilities. As Eva-Lena Jansson mentioned, the settlement of new arrivals has been extremely misallocated in Sweden for many years. Some municipalities have taken a huge responsibility while others have taken almost no responsibility at all. This means that the new arrivals who come here look for which municipalities there are relatives or compatriots they know, and it is misallocated – it is in municipalities such as Södertälje, Ljusnarsberg and Botkyrka, municipalities that have taken a very large responsibility, as one might have a relative or acquaintance. What happens is that some people remain in the facility and do not get their municipality's place while the residence permit, which is often 13 months, is ticking. Of course, they are in a hurry to start their establishment and get out into society. They want to get into Arbetsförmedlingen and participate in various efforts to start making their own money, and the months are ticking. If you are stuck in your facility for a long time and do not get your municipality's place, the risk is very great that you will settle in your own home. That right has people. Then you will settle in a way that reinforces the misallocation of new arrivals in Sweden, and it is a very high price that I am not prepared to pay. I admit that I am already taking a risk by extending the planning period to four months for 2016. It is a very temporary extension, but there is always a risk that people will instead settle on their own. Then we have not solved the problem at all, but then we have only solved the problem for those municipalities that already received few new arrivals and passed it on to those municipalities that already have very big problems. We know today that there are EBO settlements that are in poor social condition. There are examples of two or three families sharing a two- or three-bedroom, on condition that children have no chance of doing homework or schoolwork and that families' privacy is seriously hampered at all. This leads to general stress and pressure and is a poor living environment for people, which makes it difficult to establish. We don't want to end up there. That's why I'm saying it's not an option to stay in the facility. This risks leading to problems with many self-residences in municipalities that have already taken the greatest responsibility. As far as the Finnish Immigration Service's apartments are concerned, it is not a simple matter, because we still have asylum seekers. The Finnish Immigration Service prioritises placing families with children in apartments while unaccompanied men are placed in construction housing, precisely in order for the children to have better conditions during the time they are asylum seekers. When people leave their homes, regular contact is made with the municipalities in order for them to have the opportunity to take over. When it comes to apartments, it is a difficult issue because people need housing even during the period of asylum.
i-579237035760c3c2-120	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to my second question. No, this is really not easy. None of it is simple, but problems are there to be solved. And at a time when we have the most difficult situation we have ever had when it comes to new arrivals – we have never had so many new arrivals that are now going out in the country's municipalities – it would still be reasonable for the apartments the state rents from the municipalities through the Migration Agency to be handed over to those who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden. We have well-functioning asylum accommodations where asylum seekers can live. It is not simple; I am very well aware of it. But it is also the case that many of the apartments are actually empty. I think it is up to 1,900 places of residence that are completely empty and that the Migration Board is holding right now. It makes no sense to me that this opportunity is not being used. Of course all municipalities will do their part. For those who listen to the debate and do not know it, it is quite obvious that I share the view that all municipalities must play their part in this. We Moderates are also behind the agreement we reached just over a year ago, where the instruction law was also negotiated. It means that instructions should be given to all municipalities, and that is absolutely the case. We're behind it. However, what I am calling for and have called for in the autumn is that the government will also provide the municipalities with the necessary conditions to carry out the task. I believe that the government must do more to provide the conditions. In fact, it is quite incomprehensible to me how the state was able last year to simplify building rules for all the state's own housing but not for the municipalities. This applies, for example, to asylum accommodations and concerns some simplifications of accessibility, fire protection and other requirements; it was simplified very quickly in order to be able to convert various properties into asylum accommodation. When it comes to the municipalities, however, it is another matter. Not until November came the memorandum on simplified rules for movable dwellings. It took just over a year after our agreement before your memorandum came out... just for that particular issue. I believe that the state cannot say, on the one hand, that all municipalities must do more and impose a law on them, but, on the other hand, be slow to give them the conditions they need. We can talk about history as much as we like, Eva-Lena Jansson, but now we are where we are. Just to repeat: You are welcome to throw colors in my face when it comes to which municipalities do what, but I am not going to do the same. I see that municipalities of all colours now find it difficult to do their job. Our task is to ensure that all municipalities can do this. The Government has a responsibility to facilitate the municipalities. The government rules the kingdom. We have an agreement, but it must also be kept precisely when it comes to giving the municipalities the conditions. How can it be so long? That is my next question to the Government. How can it be as long as 1 July next year, for example, to get through what I just mentioned, namely simplified rules for mobile housing? After all, it took only a few months to simplify so that the state's own property could become asylum homes.
i-579237035760c3c2-128	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, it's a tough situation. We fully agree on that. We also agreed that all municipalities would assume their responsibilities – even the minister said that in his interpellation response – so I don't really understand what Eva-Lena Jansson is after. Eva-Lena Jansson also goes into a specific municipality, and I know that municipality. We work hard to achieve the figure we have received from the Migration Agency. But there's an appeal, and we don't get a building permit. The regulatory simplifications haven't gone through. As Elisabeth mentioned, the state's own housing was doing well, but the municipalities will not be relieved until 1 July next year. Then it's time. What is being called for in municipalities is dialogue and flexibility. Cooperation is needed, not counter-work and threats of sanctions. Nothing is better at threatening sanctions, which must also be decided in this House. What is being called for is precisely more regulatory simplifications or a break so that we can offer reasonable housing. We may think what we want if it has historically been built too little, but that is the reality we are living in today. Then the alternative is dormitories. The government therefore intends to allow the instructions to continue at a rapid pace, with two months' planning time. Municipalities must not know what kind of household they are – whether they are single households or large families. It is therefore difficult to know whether it is one-bedroom or larger apartments that are needed. It's an impossible situation. Surely the Minister does not think that this problem will be solved because it gives four months of planning time for the decisions from 2016 and then goes down to two months again? For example, a number of municipalities will have to build preschools and schools at very high costs. That's what you borrow for today, and it's okay with this interest rate situation. But the interest rate goes up eventually – that's something we can be sure of – and then the municipalities will face high interest costs. Tax revenues from municipalities will also not increase at the pace previously thought. Part of this is due to the fact that the population aged 0 – 18 and 80 plus are growing faster than the population of working age. This means that the group that pays the bulk of income tax does not increase as much as the group that pays less. After all, Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, SKL, has been talking about this for quite some time now. SKL writes that it may be required up to SEK 2 in tax increase. Along with all other tax increases, there is less left in the wallet for more people, and then you consume less. What I am calling for is cooperation and the end of picking on the municipalities, regardless of the colour of the political leadership. I call for a job that ensures that you have a reasonable chance of meeting your mandates and offering sensible forms of housing. We also have a housing benefit system that I have discussed with Annika Strandhäll and which counteracts, for example, sharing an apartment. I just want to ask, is it better to live in dormitories? That is the reality in which we live. There are so many municipalities that bear witness to this. There's no point talking about what happened back in time, now we're talking ahead. Here's a big problem. We must help to resolve the situation in a sensible way.
i-579237035760c3c2-136	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it is good to look in the rearview mirror to be able to move forward in a good way. That's why I told you about the story. It is not something new that we have received refugees in Sweden. I didn't bring up any political colors. I listed a number of municipalities that have received very few refugees. Then I brought up some municipalities in my own county that take a very big responsibility. It is important to talk about solidarity and housing construction here. It is not news that housing is needed in Sweden. What I described was that the previous government did nothing more than present the housing inquiry after the housing investigation. With regard to sanctions, I would like to say to Gunilla Nordgren: yes, sanctions are an important issue. At least your party leader has said this about the reception of refugees in Europe. Then you may have to have that opportunity here in our country too. I think it is important for the municipalities to assume their responsibilities, because this is a joint responsibility. It is about solidarity to build housing, to receive people who are on the run and to make an effort. We believe that Sweden will be better if we do things together and if we give each other strength. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that, if nothing is done, there will be pressure on the municipalities that have already taken a great deal of responsibility. Then it is reasonable for municipalities to make efforts. For those municipalities that have problems with housing construction, I say: Welcome to Örebro! We are building a record number of homes there, and we have been doing that for quite some time. All municipalities that have problems with housing construction are welcome to see how to do it.
i-579237035760c3c2-141	Mr President, I would like to To Elisabeth Svantesson I would like to say that it sounds very strange that the Migration Agency has empty apartments that are not used. I promise I'll get in touch with the Minister for Migration and ask him to look at that question. I think it sounds very strange. The housing company in Gothenburg has terminated the apartments of the Migration Agency, and that question is now being examined, as far as I know, in the rent board. It will be exciting to see how it will fall out. There is a great need for regulatory simplification. I regret that it took longer to get the proposal that is now being referred for temporary building permits in the municipalities. It is clear that it is a major responsibility to implement changes in the regulatory framework that will apply in just every municipality throughout Sweden. But it is necessary, and it is good that it is in the pipeline. I read in the newspaper today that Boverket will be positive in its referral, which is welcome, so that we can get simpler rules. We also need to look at how existing rules are applied. An important issue in the dialogue that I have ongoing with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils is that the county boards make very different assessments of appeals to the Planning and Construction Act. Therefore, the government is now making special training efforts for both the administrators in the municipalities and the administrators on the county boards to ensure that they are no more difficult than they need with the legislation in force. When you look at different assessments, it's an impression that you get. So there are things to do in the shorter term. It is also possible to share accommodation. There are a number of municipalities, not least municipalities with a large proportion of villas, that have gone out and asked if anyone can not imagine renting out a wind, a basement, perhaps a friggebod or Attefallssstugan that is decorated on the plot. Here I think there's more to be done. The municipalities could be even more active, because it is a way to develop housing solutions very quickly. Of course, this does not mean that you should stay there for the rest of your life, but for a period of time it can be good while waiting for other accommodations to become relevant. It is not at all that I am in any way involved in whipping municipalities, on the contrary. My most important answer to the municipalities, which I have repeated many times, is: Thank you! The municipalities have set up fantastically. There was an enormous amount of effort that Sweden experienced last autumn. It would never have been possible to cope if the municipalities had not been able to do as they did. And they keep running. I have to say that this is an amazing job going on in the municipalities. It is my view that I have very good cooperation with the local government sector on these issues, and I intend to continue to do so. It's extremely important. The problems we have are not a contradiction between the state and the municipalities, but the difficult issues are the contradiction between municipalities. That's where I have reason to act a little harshly. I do not want a situation in which wealthy municipalities that have previously taken very little or no responsibility should be able to pass on responsibility to municipalities that are already very heavily burdened. An example of this is what Gunilla Nordgren raised with schools. The municipalities that have many asylum seekers and children of them have immediately arranged for pre-school and school to them without any planning horizon. There is no point in these municipalities taking even greater responsibility.
i-579237035760c3c2-151	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to make a very brief contribution. This debate will probably continue. It is an issue that will affect us in Sweden for a very long time to come and that we have to deal with and solve. I am not problem-focused in this area, but we need to find solutions, that is quite obvious. Something has to be done, Eva-Lena Jansson. That's exactly why I put this interpellation to the minister. Something needs to be done in the short and long term. In the short term, there are several measures that can be put in place to facilitate and improve the conditions for municipalities. I would like to thank the Government for this debate. As I said, we will see each other further on this issue. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the officials, everyone who has participated in the debate and the Government a Merry Christmas. Thank you for the interpellation debate!
i-579237035760c3c2-155	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good debate. Sure, you should look back. But 2015 was especially with 160 000 coming over a year. Then you go to the municipalities and say that they should take their responsibility. But if the municipalities get their instructions and work hard with them, I think that municipality takes its responsibility. So don't bring it! It is also difficult to give too many forwards, for it creates contradictions when there are long queues. The training was very good. Appeals in which the county boards are opposed are a major concern. That is the reality in which we live. This of going out to everyone, yes, we have. Unfortunately, we did not get many answers. But we have sent out that the municipal real estate company guarantees the rent payment. We have sent this out to all citizens. We are faced with a situation that we must resolve together. We should not threaten and fight, but we need cooperation, not counterwork. It applies to all municipalities. My municipality of residence has not said that you should stop accepting asylum seekers, if that is what Eva-Lena Jansson thinks. On the contrary, but we have a huge job to do it, if we're going to avoid dormitories. We don't want that. Getting a building permit for a caravan or pavilion like this is not easy. If it is not the citizens, it is the county administrative board that has views. That's reality! Thank you for a great debate. I think we're gonna have to discuss this for a long time to come. I'd like to say hello to a Merry Christmas, too.
i-579237035760c3c2-163	Mr President, I would like to I too would like to wish my fellow debaters a Merry Christmas and thank them for the debate. I fully share the view that cooperation must shape the work ahead. We are in the middle of a very big challenge for Sweden and therefore of course for all municipalities. It is necessary for municipalities to cooperate among themselves and for the state to cooperate with the municipalities. Mr President, I would like to I would like to address a special thank you and wish a Merry Christmas to my main opponent and challenger Elisabeth Svantesson. In my experience, she is a reliable person to cooperate with in important and difficult issues for Sweden. Merry Christmas!
i-579237035760c3c2-166	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me whether I still believe that the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 is realistic to achieve. The government's objective is that the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy should increase so that Sweden reaches the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. An employment policy framework with a clear objective is an important part of achieving results. The objective clarifies the priorities and governs economic policy. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag with further proposals that may contribute to an increase in employment and a decrease in unemployment. At the same time, the conditions for achieving the lowest unemployment target in the EU 2020 have become more challenging since it was first presented. One reason for this is that the number of asylum seekers to Sweden increased in autumn 2015 to historically high levels. These developments obviously affect the conditions in which it takes time for newcomers to enter the labour market, and when the labour market changes, measures and measures need to be adapted. The government is now halfway into the mandate and has come a long way towards the goal. Labour market developments are strong. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people, and more than half of the growth has occurred among foreign-borns. Unemployment has been pushed below 7%, and among young people we see the lowest unemployment rate in 13 years. At the same time, the government continues to work for more jobs to be created and for new arrivals to get to work quickly. The target of the lowest unemployment rate by 2020 is very ambitious, but it is, of course, achievable.
i-579237035760c3c2-171	Mr President, I would like to I don't know exactly where to start, but I feel like the government has lost its grip on the country. We have the security issue, the queues in health care, the integration process and the housing issue. The government feels very passive on many of these issues. The government says that unemployment has decreased and is decreasing, and yes, it is. This is quite normal in a boom, but – there's always one-but-it doesn't apply to everyone. The government's objective is to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate, which is a very tricky target because we depend on what it looks like in other countries. Unemployment can be reduced without achieving the target. It may also be the other way round that we achieve the objective despite the rise in unemployment. Mr President, I would like to One might wonder who came up with the brilliant idea of setting such a tricky goal. Was it the Prime Minister or the Minister for Labour? To me, the goal is completely incomprehensible. It is as incomprehensible as innovation captions and industrial chancellors. It's just a lot of words, and there's really no plan for how Sweden will become more competitive. Now the government will also reduce the impact on small businesses as a result of the revision of the 3:12 rules. Taxes will increase by billions. It has been forgotten that four out of five jobs are being created in small businesses. Now, then, the government is making sure that the tax is increased for these job creators, and the Social Democrats think that this is a good thing. In Sweden it should always pay to work and not go on grants. Now the government is choosing to increase the contributions, and it will be more expensive to work because there will be new tax increases on jobs. The Moderates stand for a policy where jobs are at the forefront – not the subsidies, which S prioritises. We are proposing a ceiling to stop this development. We have a plan for Sweden. The government doesn't. Mr President, I would like to The government does not see SMEs. As usual, it is only interested in the great dragons. I think it's based on a vision of history that's out of date today. In the past, large trade unions were able to flourish and thus increase the contributions to LO and ultimately to the Social Democratic Party. Now it looks good, but several assessors, including the government's own authority Konjunkturinstitutet, believe that unemployment will rise from 2019. Then it will be very difficult to achieve the government's goals. Given the refugee crisis, the situation is obviously more strained now than it was in 2014. But even before 2014 it was difficult for new arrivals to get into work. The development is really bad, and something in the integration process does not seem to work. Much is about making work pay more than going on benefits. Swedish authorities have to talk about what applies in Sweden right from the start. They can say, "You are welcome here, but it is expected of you that you are working and doing the right thing for yourself. If you get sick and can't work, we have a safety net to help. But for it to work, everyone who can work must contribute to the common welfare. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister how the government will achieve the lowest unemployment target in the EU by 2020. What reforms has the government made that have led to a reduction in unemployment?
i-579237035760c3c2-180	Mr President, I would like to I think Erik Andersson listed all of the Moderates' points. I think it is good that we have a government that has an ambitious unemployment target. It would be shameful if one did not have a goal of reducing unemployment and having a low unemployment rate. We will compare ourselves with the countries that we normally do in all other contexts. My question to Erik Andersson is: What do you think is realistic? What unemployment target do the Moderates think is realistic? That would be interesting to hear. If the Moderates do not think it is important to have the EU's lowest unemployment target, then I wonder what they want to achieve. You have to be able to describe that. What's the opposite? What are your suggestions? It is important to work with unemployment and to create new jobs. I do not really know where Erik Andersson has stayed before and whether he has heard the Minister for Economic Affairs describe our industrial strategy. The export industry is very important to our country, and it creates many jobs. This contributes to higher tax revenues, which may ultimately lead to more employees in the municipal sector. There's a record building now. Of course, much more can be built, as we have just talked about. It is important to have white jobs in Sweden, for example when purchasing in the public sector. Erik Andersson is opposed to us imposing collective agreement requirements on the companies that will participate in procurements. He has voted against this, and as a result we will perhaps have more people with lower wages, resulting in less tax revenue and less money to distribute to welfare. Erik Andersson should be able to answer the question as to the unemployment target of the Moderates. There's got to be something. You must have written down something more than the points you listed, Erik.
i-579237035760c3c2-186	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I cannot take responsibility for Erik Andersson's emotional life. However, I note that Sweden has changed direction. Now many curves point in the right direction. We have strong growth for both bnp and jobs. Unemployment is falling. School results are finally turning in the right direction, although there is still a long way to go to levels you can be satisfied with. Housing construction in apartments reaches levels that we have not seen since the days of the million-dollar programme. Sweden has very strong competitiveness and stands well in various international comparisons of competitiveness and innovation capacity. I understand that Erik Andersson wants to describe this as something that the government does not have a grip on. But maybe we do. The government has changed direction. I am not saying that this is only the government's credit, but the government has actually changed direction for Sweden. We are now seeing the results. Now we are leaving the time for cuts, tax cuts and unemployment and moving towards investment, justice and jobs. Erik Andersson calls for proposals from the government to strengthen this development. I would like to remind you that only a few hours ago Erik Andersson was here in the Chamber when such proposals were passed. It is about investment in infrastructure and housing construction. It's about promoting exports. It is about the renewal of the industry. It is about skills development, training initiatives and research. It is about welfare billions for more employees and higher quality in school, health care and care. Of course, these are also more modern ways of using labour market policy. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Erik Andersson a question. He said it's important that there's incentive to go from allowance to work, if I understood him correctly. The Moderates propose that those who go unemployed and receive benefits from unemployment insurance should receive lower compensation than is currently the case, while those who are unemployed and who receive start-up benefits as new arrivals should be able to have double benefits, which is not possible today. Why? I have heard the argument that both things should be incentives for taking work. Why, Erik Andersson, is it that those who are unemployed and receive their livelihood from unemployment insurance should be given an incentive to take the job through reduced compensation, while those who are unemployed and new arrivals and receive their livelihood through the establishment allowance should have the incentive not to lose any compensation at all, even though they start working and making money? According to the Moderates, what incentive does it really work for people to get to work?
i-579237035760c3c2-191	Mr President, I would like to Eva-Lena Jansson! I'll write my own speeches. It's rude to say that I'm standing here playing up points of speech. But, of course, we are elected by a party, and when we are in the chair, it is clear that we are in favour of that policy. That's no wonder. You're standing here talking about Social Democratic politics. Or is it only your own opinions that apply? Objectives are good, and full employment is good. Of course we'll have it. But what we are discussing in this debate is that it is an objective in relation to other countries. Even if unemployment increases, we could actually achieve that objective. And even if unemployment decreases, we may not achieve it at all. That is what is the trickyness of a goal that is related to others. The Social Democrats are obsessed with taxes. They believe that increased taxes are fair. But it depends on what view you have of man. Is the tax state money right from the start, or is it citizens' money that they have given to the state in order for us to have a common welfare? These are two completely different approaches. If you have too high taxes, it is clear that it is not profitable to work. That's it. It's nothing weird. The Social Democrats always want to raise taxes. Now, for example, taxes on alcohol and tobacco have been increased. Why do you do that? Well, you do it because you want people not to consume these products very much. It's exactly the same with work. If you have too high taxes on labour, it is clear that people work less. You know what, Mr President? I have a friend who works in health care here in Stockholm. In principle, he can't work extra, although there is a need for more hands in health care. If he works so much that he comes up to the level of government tax, he won't get much over. For example, a thousand dollars left to him. Then he feels it's better to be free. That's what I'm talking about. Increased taxes make it less profitable to work. Then we've got this Laffer Curve thing. You have to find an optimal location. It may even be the case that tax revenue increases if taxes on labour are reduced. Several studies have shown this. Unfortunately, however, I do not believe that the Social Democrats are listening with those ears. It is great that unemployment is falling. We're very happy about that. We're all happy about that. But, of course, it is not just the credit of this government. It has to do with the world economy, previous governments and future prospects – what the future will be like. Unfortunately, however, this does not apply to everyone. For example, we have women born outside Europe who do not enter the labour market. It is a waste that these very women cannot get a foothold into the labour market. That is why we believe, for example, that the Swedish Public Employment Service should be given a clearer mandate to reverse this negative trend. In Sweden we have a society where we work for the equal value and equality of all, including between the sexes. It is a failure that we do not get women born outside Europe into the labour market, for example. My question remains. Which reforms of this government have led to a reduction in unemployment, Mr President?
i-579237035760c3c2-199	Mr President, I would like to I have not questioned the fact that Erik Andersson writes his own speeches. I just said that I think it's moderate points of speech he's using. It can't be negative to use moderate points of speech if you're moderate, can it? I am, of course, speaking for the Social Democrats, and I am also talking about social democratic politics. For four minutes, Erik Andersson did not even manage to answer the question of the target of the Moderates and Erik Andersson for unemployment. Nor was he able to answer the question of the Minister for Labour. However, I think it is relevant to answer my question. If you question the government's objective, you have to have your own goal. What are Erik Andersson's and Moderate's targets for unemployment? Is it that it should be constant as it is, or what is it about? When it comes to taxes, I understand that Erik Andersson finds it difficult that both he and I have to pay a little more tax. I, for my part, think it's a good thing. It is a fair distribution that we who earn a lot also pay a little more, while those who are low-paid do not pay at all as much tax as we do. It is a redistribution that we stand for. It is Social Democratic policy, and I am quite proud of it. But back to the question, Erik Andersson! What is your objective for unemployment? Where do you think Sweden should be in 2018 – the highest in the EU, or perhaps the lowest in the EU? Is it bad to have as an ambition to have very low unemployment? That is really the goal. But I have not understood that Erik Andersson has specified what the Moderates' goal is. Perhaps he can explain this in this Chamber.
i-579237035760c3c2-203	Mr President, I would like to Is Raised Treasures Justice? asks Erik Andersson, but he avoids answering the question I asked. No, increased taxes are not fair, but order in the economy is a very important prerequisite for being able to have justice. When the Moderates ruled the Ministry of Finance, we went from a surplus of SEK 70 billion in public finances to a deficit of SEK 60 billion. This has made Sweden weaker. This has made Sweden more difficult to cope with unforeseen events, and unforeseen events always occur. It risks not having money for what is most important and for those who are most vulnerable. Now we get back to order and settle our finances, and we get out of the deficits. But we have to have tax revenue that matches spending. Otherwise, both Sweden and justice are at stake. Believe me! I've been there before and I've seen it happen. Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson avoids answering my question. Instead, he talks about incentives in the tax system. But that's not what I asked you. The Moderates have put forward very clear proposals in their budget, which, of course, did not go through. The proposals are as follows: If you are unemployed and have unemployment benefit, you should receive a reduction in unemployment benefit on the grounds that you then get a greater incentive to take a job. Those who are new arrivals and unemployed and receive start-up benefits should instead be able to earn double income by keeping the entire start-up allowance ungraved if you start working. So you get both salary and compensation. The motivation is that it will increase incentives for jobs. How does this go together, Erik Andersson? What, in fact, is the Moderates' view of incentives for job creation and unemployment benefits?
i-579237035760c3c2-206	Mr President, I would like to Few countries in the world tax low incomes as much as we do in Sweden. Eva-Lena Jansson stands here and says that it is fair that those who earn more pay more in tax. You might think so. But why do we tax them with low incomes as much as we do in this country? It's all wrong. The government stands and says that the government has cleaned up the economy. As I can see in the Social Democratic and Environmental Party budget, billions are being borrowed in a boom. It does not collect in the famous barns that the Minister of Finance spoke of earlier. We do so in the Moderates' budget. We gather in the barns in a boom just to be able to parry a recession that will come. Even the government's own institutions know it will come. But you choose to waste taxpayers' money and borrow in a boom. The intervention is about the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Unfortunately, I do not have time to answer all the questions, Mr President, because my speaking time is running out. There is a lack of a plan for Sweden, where we see that much is going in the wrong direction. It is perhaps the only electoral promise that the government has kept, that Sweden is breaking down. We have a police officer who cannot guarantee the security of the citizens. Leagues may act freely in alienated areas. Nevertheless, I wish the Government: A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year! This also applies to Eva-Lena Jansson.
i-579237035760c3c2-211	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates gather in the barns in opposition. In a government position, every time, you have destroyed the economy. That's your conclusion. It is remarkable, Mr President, how difficult Erik Andersson has to answer the question. Is it perhaps that the Moderates do not really know what incentives work for people to get to work? Is it that you have double compensation that makes you have more desire to work? Or is it that you have lower remuneration that makes you feel more like working in the world of Moderates? Let us return to that question, Erik Andersson. Mr President, I would like to I would now like to thank the President, all the officials in this House and my co-debaters for the past year and wish: Merry Christmas! This applies especially to Erik Andersson, who has gilded so many of my Fridays during the past year. I hope you get a nice Christmas, and I'll see you on the new year!
i-579237035760c3c2-214	Mr President, I would like to Rickard Nordin has asked me how I see the Supreme Administrative Court ruling at risk of destroying the entire drone industry and whether I will act to change the legislation. The question is raised in the light of the fact that the Supreme Administrative Court has ruled in a judgment that a camera mounted on a drone requires permission under the Camera Surveillance Act. As Rickard Nordin points out, drone technology has many potential uses, for example in forestry and agriculture and rescue work and for journalistic purposes. At the same time, drones can be used in a way that exposes individuals to privacy-depleting surveillance. It is therefore important that we have a regulatory framework that takes both aspects into account. In November 2015, the Government appointed an investigation to review the 2013 Camera Surveillance Act. Although the law was relatively new, the government was already able to conclude that there was a need to investigate how it relates to the use of new technology, such as camera-equipped drones. This issue was therefore specifically pointed out in the mission to the investigation. The investigation will also analyse, among other things, how the law should be adapted to the new EU data protection regulation that will start to apply in spring 2018. The new EU regulation provides for further harmonisation and reduces the scope for national legislation, particularly in the private sector. The investigation will report on its mission in June 2017. At the same time, I am well aware that the situation that has arisen is difficult for many companies. The Ministry of Justice is therefore investigating the possibility of getting a faster answer to the drone question.
i-579237035760c3c2-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. After a ruling by the Supreme Administrative Court, a drone with a camera is classified as a surveillance camera. This means that regardless of what you have planned to use it for, you need to have a separate permit from the County Administrative Board for each individual photo occasion. It is costly and takes a long time to get, and it creates unnecessary bureaucracy. This applies not least because the Swedish Transport Agency already grants permits for flights. This could include the privacy aspect, as of course all serious actors already do. These are companies that run a serious and active business. They have the technical conditions for erasing faces, plates and other things. It already exists. That's exactly what you do. Those who have looked at Google Street View, for example, know this, where you delete those data. There's technology. It is a matter of course to protect personal integrity. The problem is that you should now apply for a permit for camera surveillance for all drones, even though you do not apply any type of camera surveillance. That's not what you do. You want to fly to take photos to do a lot of exciting things. The interesting thing is that with this judgment the problem of border drawing becomes a little interesting. Filming in a public place is allowed if you are holding a mobile camera. However, if you would like to put your camera on a stand with a remote trigger, it is not within your hand's reach and is thus illegal. It will also be illegal to use tripod, the tripods that we see on all infrastructure projects when you are measuring, filming and taking pictures with them. The m can also be filmed and photographed with. They also become illegal according to this judgment. It's pretty fast becoming quite absurd. It is almost even the case that the selfie stick, since it is also not within the reach of the arm, also becomes illegal. I would like to see those who go out and try to deal with this problem. It's easy to ralli over it. The point is that it threatens a completely budding, very future-proof industry. In a short time it has become possible to look for people with thermal cameras. You can get an overview of forest fires. I myself know examples at home in Småland where I come from where the rescue services have benefited from private individuals who have been present and have been able to show pictures directly. You can't apply for a permit for it a couple of months in advance. You don't know when it's gonna happen. If civil protection itself provides it, you need to take those investment costs and do all those things yourself instead of being able to get help quickly and easily from private individuals. There are countless examples of things that can be done with this. We can streamline construction processes. There are an incredible number of research areas where you can benefit from this. You can precision in agriculture, get an overview after storms, and so on. There are lots of exciting possibilities for this which in a single club team is deleted. We are talking about 8 000 – 10 000 jobs in Sweden. Compare that with the 3,000 jobs Ericsson has announced. It's gigantic. The focus must be to punish the bad behaviour. Of course, we should take into account people's personal integrity. It is the same with regard to traffic. We are not banning the car, that is, the technology. We forbid bad behaviour, insecure driving in different ways. It must be the same here. We must ban the offensive photography and not the technology that can be used for it. It is good that the Minister points out that the Ministry of Justice is investigating the possibility of getting a faster answer to the drone question. That's good. It has now been two months since the judgment came. What ideas are being worked on, and what is the time perspective for that work?
i-579237035760c3c2-232	Mr President, I would like to Progress has been fast in recent years. The camera surveillance legislation itself is not so terribly old; it came in 2013. It was the old government that processed it. Of course you might think that even then you should have considered the drone issue, because the drones were not some unknown technology at that time. But this was not done, but the legislation was drawn up without taking into account the aspects of drones. It is this legislation that the Supreme Administrative Court has interpreted. When we took office as a government, we were proactive in this part. We set up a new camera surveillance investigation. In our interests, for example, there was to make it easier to conduct camera surveillance in particularly criminal places but also a few other aspects that we wanted to take into account. We also thought that the issue of drones is going to be a matter for us, perhaps faster than we can imagine. That's why we said, "We'll put it in the mission for the investigation as well." In this respect, the government was anticipating. But it turned out that things can go even faster, perhaps even faster than we thought at the time. The ruling of 21 October in the Supreme Administrative Court concludes that, under the current legislation, this type of use will be subject to authorisation, which, as Rickard Nordin points out, raises the right major problems for ordinary users and, of course, for the industry. At the same time, we had an additional process, namely the one dealing with the EU Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force in May 2018. As we assess it now, this Data Protection Regulation will solve the problem when it enters into force in May 2018, because then this type of technology, if exercised within the limits of the General Data Protection Regulation, will not be subject to authorisation in the way it is now for private individuals. Even after May 2018, one must of course stay within the usual regulations, of which Rickard Nordin points to, for example, offensive photography. Seizing according to the Criminal Code may also be considered. When the regulation enters into force in May 2018, the issue will be resolved. The concern then arises: What should we do in the meantime, in the gap where we stand today, throughout 2017 and into May 2018? I am pleased to say to Rickard Nordin that we have been working at the Ministry of Justice in the months that have passed since 21 October in trying to find such a solution. We are just finished with this, and we will shortly – probably and hopefully already next week – submit such a proposal. Then we will be able to go to Parliament as soon as possible, and of course after the usual consultation. My message to Rickard Nordin is: The government is working on the issue, and we have been doing it since October 21st. I can see that we will be able to solve this and that we will then have looked at this fast track.
i-579237035760c3c2-238	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it was anyone who anticipated the consequences of the law when it was clubbed in Parliament. The Minister's party also voted in favour of it, and I do not believe that there were any follow-up movements which specifically addressed the drone problem. I don't think you could see that it would fall within this framework. It really matters less who voted how, on what or why at the time, because that is now the problem. I am therefore pleased to hear the Minister say that a referral is being prepared for next week. There is good news both for the drone industry and for us who are interested in these issues. The Minister is absolutely right that we cannot wait until May 2018 to solve the problems, because then things can run away. I hope that we will get a quick round of referrals and a quick reading in the Swedish Parliament too so that we may be able to resolve this already in the spring. That would be amazing. The interesting thing is that the verdict has exciting consequences, and perhaps even the President is a little at risk here. We've got video cameras around us shooting us right now. There are seven of them placed around this Chamber. They are permanently set up. They are not operated in place, but are controlled from a control room. They have sufficient quality to identify people, and they are able to target places where the public has access, that is, up in our stands. They therefore fall under the new law and would therefore also be illegal. We in Parliament may have to be a little careful about the consequences of this law, too! This is a bit interesting, and I know there are several people who have pointed out that there are no permits for these cameras. The point is that technology has also created good opportunities. But I also know of companies that have been shut down after the judgment came. These are companies that, for example, would have worked to improve the efficiency of agriculture and forestry. I am pleased to hear that the Minister has taken this seriously and that there will be some kind of solution to the issue until May 2018. I am very pleased, and I simply see it as an early Christmas present. I thank the Minister for that.
i-579237035760c3c2-242	Mr President, I would like to Well, that's one way to see it! The final point is simply that sometimes things happen that you have to try to solve a little faster than you might have imagined. It may well be that in 2013 this had not been considered. My point in my previous post was that we also weighed up this issue from the beginning when we set up the investigation. If so, we will have to resolve this in special order. In the meantime, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has given information on some issues that you feel you want to solve more quickly, such as being able to use drones when searching for people. Among other things, it has been a question that Missing People has raised. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has given some guidance on that part and how to interpret the ruling. Such an activity could probably be authorised if sought. I also realise that, in the light of the new ruling, we must ensure that we have a stable legal basis to stand on during the period until May 2018. We are working on this, and we will return to Parliament as soon as the process is completed.
i-579237035760c3c2-245	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope that the proposal that will come next week is broader than just focusing on this with emergency services, searching for people and so on. I hope that the opportunities offered by the drones will be removed from this problem. It is good that the Swedish Data Protection Authority has given some guidance, but it is not enough with it; it needs to be broader than that. I hope this is also included in the proposal. With this, I would like to thank you for the debate and for the new information. I'm glad to hear this. It is not always so straightforward and clear-cut in interpellation debates, but I appreciate that very much. I wish both Morgan Johansson and the President a Merry Christmas.
i-579237035760c3c2-247	Mr President, I would like to The whole thing is, of course, broader than that. I just pointed out that for this use, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has provided this guidance in order to resolve this particular situation. As has been said, what we are moving forward with and about to refer is broader. It's about usage as a whole. I hope we can resolve this as soon as possible. I also wish Rickard Nordin a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I'll see you in the New Year!
i-579237035760c3c2-250	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me if I am prepared to take any action to ensure that, when there are reasons, the Migration Agency will assess age to over 18 years. He has also asked whether I am prepared to take any initiative to enable prosecutors and courts to make medical age determinations when there are reasons not to accept the individual's duties. In addition, he has asked whether it is my position that a court order should not be reopened if new information comes to light on the age of a criminal who would have given more severe punishment and if so for what reasons. Finally, he has asked whether I intend, regardless of the forthcoming Supreme Court ruling, to have these important issues investigated so that current uncertainties for the authorities and courts are clarified. The fact that medical age assessments can be carried out is of great importance both in asylum and criminal matters. The Government has taken several initiatives to ensure that medical age assessments within the framework of residence permit applications can be carried out in Sweden. Among other things, the National Board of Forensic Medicine has been tasked with increasing its capacity to carry out medical age assessments and to develop its capabilities in this area. In carrying out the mission, the Agency shall pay particular attention to scientific requirements, proven experience, legal certainty, ethics and the specific rights of children under international conventions. Medical age assessments shall be carried out in full respect of personal dignity. In asylum matters, it is the asylum seeker who has the burden of proof that he or she is under the age of 18. Medical age assessment is a means of proof that individuals can use to make their age likely. In cases where there is doubt about the age and the asylum seeker is not likely to be a child and does not agree to medical age assessment, many times the Migration Agency's assessment remains and the person is assessed as an adult. The government is also currently preparing a proposal that will make it possible to make age assessments earlier in the asylum process. In the criminal proceedings, it is often absolutely crucial that fair age assessments can be made in cases where age is unclear. The age is important, among other things, for whether the suspect is of criminal age and for the penalty. So far, body inspection has been used to make medical age assessments. Now the District Court and the Court of Appeal have said in one case that it is not possible. The decision has been appealed to the Supreme Court, which has granted leave to appeal. The government is prepared to propose legislative changes if necessary. Once a sentence has legal force, the starting point is that it should stand firm. It is therefore important that the age of the suspect can be investigated during the ordinary criminal proceedings. With regard to the appeal to the detriment of the defendant, the interest in the final outcome of the proceedings is not to be re-examined. It therefore takes very strong reasons for the appeal to be granted to the detriment of a defendant, and this should also be the case. It is important that the rules a about rising are appropriate and well balanced and stand over time.
i-579237035760c3c2-255	Mr President, I would like to Government! I have raised, I mean, a very important issue that has been seriously mismanaged for several years by the Migration Agency, but where also courts have been strangely passive. I have used the word legal scandal about how the Migration Agency has failed to determine age since 2011 – 2012. It has passively accepted the individual's own data. I only have ten minutes for my case here. Anyone who wants to see my deeper analysis is referred to my blog and label. If you Google my name, you'll find the blog. One can also discuss with me on the Facebook group with the name Political Center debate. In my interpellation I write: In 2015, nearly 90 000 unaccompanied asylum seekers came to the EU who claimed to be children under the age of 18. Of these, about 40%, over 35 000, chose to apply for asylum in Sweden, which has 2% of the EU population. If over 10 000 of the unaccompanied minors who have applied for asylum in Sweden in recent years have probably been adult men between the ages of 20 and 30, and the state costs for them up to the age of 21 are several million SEK more than if they have instead received asylum as adults, this extra cost to the state of tens of billions, while the injustice to those who stated the correct age is great. It is also very serious that adult men have been placed in HVB homes and other accommodations throughout Sweden together with children under 18 years of age, which, according to consistent data, has caused significant disruption for both children and staff. I believe that the Migration Agency has seriously failed to take its authority's responsibility to determine the age when the boycott of the professions of pediatricians and lawyers has been passively allowed to determine Sweden's migration policy in this respect with the major negative effects I have presented here. I have therefore asked the Ombudsman for Justice to review the actions of the Migration Agency. Perhaps the responsibility of governments, which have accepted the actions of the Migration Agency, should also be examined. It was an excerpt from my interpellation. Although I have three times notified the leadership of the Finnish Immigration Service of the failure to determine age with the consequences I have described here, the Ombudsman for Justice has had no reminder after just a few weeks. I find it extremely remarkable. Of course, all asylum seekers should be granted asylum in Sweden regardless of whether they are children, young people or adults. UN rules grant children special rights, and children are all under the age of 18. I may think that rights should be greater if you are 5, 10 or 15 years old and then escalated by something, but that is not the case. Therefore, it has great benefits to have your age defined as under 18 years, and it is likely that thousands of unaccompanied persons between 20 and 30 years of age in recent years have received from the Migration Board who have accepted their claims. I thank the Minister for Migration for the short and diplomatic response that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs could not have done better. It is very good that the Minister of Justice has commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to establish age and that those who are dissatisfied can request a medical assessment. It is also good that age should be assessed early after arrival and not after more than a year. After all, it has been absurd that the individual has been able to determine his or her own age until asylum decisions are taken without any control. With regard to age assessment in criminal cases where prison sentences can be reduced by three to four years if you lie about your age, courts have unimaginably prohibited age assessment. I thank the government for its clear and positive statement that legislative changes should be proposed if necessary.
i-579237035760c3c2-265	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Staffan Danielsson that this issue has been seriously mismanaged, but I do not agree that the blame should be placed on the Migration Agency. This issue was handled very seriously by the previous government. What happened under the previous government was that the National Board of Health and Welfare gave new guidelines on how to make medical age assessment. In practice, as an effect, children's doctors were given the right to veto whether it would work at all. At that time there was great opposition to this in many pediatricians and there was simply no involvement from the critical side of the method. Instead of trying to dissolve the knots on that issue, the old government chose to do nothing. The National Board of Health and Welfare's guidelines came in 2012. The Alliance government did nothing in 2012. Nothing was done in 2013. Nothing was done in 2014. That question came to the new government when we took over at the end of 2014. We had to deal with this, and we did. As Mr Danielsson notes, we have now started such work. We gave a commission to the National Board of Forensic Medicine, and the procurement of the capacity needed to start with the medical age assessment is completed these days. We will be able to get started on this shortly after the end of the year. We have put in place a system in which the operators are in fact in agreement. I spoke not so long ago with the chairman of the Swedish Children's Association Bärtås, and she said that they have great confidence in the National Board of Forensics and the process that is now taking place. We've loosened those knots. In addition, we are in the final stage of preparation when it comes to submitting a proposal to the Riksdag to bring forward age assessments so that they can take place earlier in the process and not when you may have already been in an HVB home and waited for a long time, because that is when the risks arise. The proposal is therefore about bringing forward, and we come to Parliament with a proposal for such legislation. That is how, I think, a responsible government should act when faced with such issues that can actually be both ethically complicated, infected and sensitive. We have dissolved the knots and now have a new process in progress. I would also like to say that it is not the individual who decides. Even if you are in the absence of medical age assessment, it is not the individual who decides. During this year alone, the Migration Board has written up the ages of nearly 2,000 cases of unaccompanied minors. It has therefore been possible to make an assessment even in the absence of a medical age assessment. As far as criminal investigations are concerned, the legal basis has previously been that of the right to body inspection. Now we have a ruling from the District Court and the Court of Appeal saying that there was not enough legal support for it. The Attorney General has appealed this to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court has granted leave to appeal. If that assessment stands, that is to say that there is not enough legal support for this, we are prepared to act immediately to get to Parliament with legislation so that we arrange the legality. We have already prepared such a legislative process. We took on the medical age assessments, we have a process in progress and we are prepared to act also on the matter of body inspection.
i-579237035760c3c2-274	Mr President, I would like to Many have been passive for years. Where has the investigative journalism been? It's been doing other things. But what did the Migration Board do? Has any request been made to the government and pointed out the new situation and so on? As far as I've seen, no action was taken. I am highly critical of the Migration Agency. I would like to develop a little bit on the data on the new practice, which the Minister also mentioned. In short: Over the past five years, 45 000 asylum seekers in Sweden have declared themselves to be children under the age of 18. Swedish Radio, Dagens Eko, has produced statistics for 2014 in the Nordic countries. There were 197 unaccompanied minors in Finland, 818 in Denmark and 1 204 in Norway – 2 219 in total. In Sweden came 7 049. In Denmark and Finland, a medical age assessment was carried out on one in three asylum seekers who claimed to be children. In Norway it was done on three out of four. Most were children, but many were grown men. In Norway, one in three unaccompanied minors were classified as likely adults, in Denmark one in four and in Finland one in five. In Sweden, in 2014 medical age assessments were made of only 3 per cent of the unaccompanied persons, and one in 20, i.e. 5 per cent, had their age adjusted from children to adults. This is despite the fact that probably a significantly higher proportion of those who applied for asylum in Sweden were actually adult men, because they and their smugglers knew about Sweden's almost non-existent control. This explains to a significant extent why 40% of all unaccompanied children who applied for asylum in any EU country chose to do so in Sweden. This is what I mean is a legal scandal, that so many adult men have clearly received asylum in Sweden as a child, received social security numbers as a child and received benefits as a child and pushed children away from places that are for children. I do not blame those who risk having asylum as a child; I place full responsibility on the authority which, for reasons of legal certainty, is to control age but has failed to do so. Thanks to the fact that the Minister of Justice ordered the Finnish Immigration Service to determine age in cases of doubt, statistics have been produced for the current year, 2016, as the Minister of Justice said. The Finnish Immigration Service states that only in September and October the age of 1,077 persons changed. During the first eleven months of the year, the Finnish Immigration Service has dealt with 7 000 applications for asylum for children and persons who have claimed to be children under the age of 18. 2,500 of these, 35 percent, were thought to be adult men and not children. Compare it with 2014, when it was 5 percent! My gross extra cost estimate, that it has cost billions of dollars not to set age, is correct. However, thanks to the government's instructions to the Migration Board that age should be assessed, which was not done before, the amount will now be significantly reduced. That's good work. How does the Minister of Justice view the Migration Agency's failure to determine age for several years with the legal uncertainty and cost explosion and the risks for children and staff at HVB homes that this has involved? I am aware that it is a shared responsibility between the government and the authorities, but I am actually placing the responsibility on the responsible authority, which assesses age, sees the effects and has taken decisions in all these cases, where it has been fully aware that adult men have been given asylum as children.
i-579237035760c3c2-282	Mr President, I would like to It is convenient for Staffan Danielsson to blame the authority, because then he will not have to criticise the government of his own party. But just as I said in my previous post, that was where the problems started. In 2012, the new guidelines came from the National Board of Health and Welfare. Then things started to get harder. The Finnish Immigration Service pointed this out to the government. The old government did nothing – not 2012, 2013 or 2014. It was a question that we had to resolve. Don't blame the Migration Agency! Blame the old government! I may well ask what Staffan Danielsson did to dissolve these knots or to point this out? After all, he was in the Parliament last parliamentary term. Now we have in place a new system for medical age assessments. In addition, we will have a system in which we can make age assessments earlier. We have also, as Staffan Danielsson pointed out, already acted to ensure that the Migration Agency can do this even if there is no possibility of medical age assessment. This has already happened in over 2 000 cases so far. Let me address the issue of body inspection, and now we are talking about the crime process. Sometimes you get a little annoyed by the way debates are conducted. We knew that this would be discussed today. In today's Svenska Dagbladet, the Moderatens have written a debate article about age assessment in criminal proceedings. Moderates Tomas Tobé and Beatrice Ask write as follows: Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson (S) must give his view and the government's view on the matter and ensure that new legislation is presented to Parliament. They know very well what the process looks like! I can't act until the court proceedings are over and the Supreme Court has taken a decision on the matter. We know that the case has been appealed to HD and that it has been granted leave to appeal. The Supreme Court's decision will come shortly, probably before the end of the year. We have already prepared legislation in the event that the Court of Appeal's position is confirmed and it would therefore be said that there is no legal basis for body inspection. Then we have already prepared a proposal that we can quickly refer and go to the Riksdag with. But sometimes you get disappointed by politicians who should know better and see what the process looks like before they accuse us of passivity. We will act on this issue when we have constitutional opportunities to do so. That is what we have after the Supreme Court has delivered its ruling.
i-579237035760c3c2-288	Mr President, I would like to The responsibility for this legal scandal, which I believe it is, lies with authorities – for example, the National Board of Health and Welfare acted very strangely – but also with the government. It's done. Morgan Johansson has points in what he says. I wrote in April 2012 at the DN Debate a full page on this issue. I've written on social media. Read my blog! I've been trying to run opinion. So I do not blame those asylum seekers who are willing to receive much more favourable asylum treatment with more permanent residence permits, good man, housing at HVB homes and bringing their relatives here and more. I hold the authorities and the government accountable, who have failed their control responsibilities and have not acted. I also think that investigative journalism has been very absent. Let me say this one more time: of course, those who apply for asylum in Sweden and for asylum reasons, whether they are children or adults, should receive asylum. However, it is not reasonable for adult men to be given asylum as a child, and that this has been the case for several years through lots of decisions at the Migration Board, where one has seen what has been going on, is unreasonable. Thank you for this debate. As has been pointed out, I think that Morgan Johansson and the government have actually acted vigorously on this issue, and that has been a good thing. The Children's Association and the Bar Association, professional groups, have been given the mandate to dictate the terms and conditions. The National Board of Health and Welfare has bent. The Migration Board has bent, and the government also bowed down. I find it outrageous. It should also be examined, which has not happened. It is possible to assess age, but, of course, with reasonable safety intervals. This is done worldwide, in the EU and in the rest of the Nordic countries. Thanks to Morgan Johansson it is also done in Sweden. It's on, and it's good. Thank you for the debate.
i-579237035760c3c2-294	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Staffan Danielsson, for your final words. I think we have the same entry into this: children should be treated as children, and adults should be treated as adults. Children should live with children, if they are unaccompanied, and adults should live in adult housing. If you start mixing those groups, you risk getting into difficult situations and also putting children at risk. That is why it has been important to ensure that there is a system in place. We gave the Forensics Agency this assignment. The knots that existed a few years ago are dissolved, I would say. There is now great confidence in the process with, for example, the Children's Medical Association and the National Board of Health and Welfare. We are developing some of the most modern methods to ensure that there is a great degree of certainty in the assessments made. We also go to the Riksdag with the opportunity to bring forward the assessments so that they are not made at the end of the asylum process, but at the beginning, i.e. before you have lived in the accommodations for a long time. Then there was the question of the criminal proceedings. As soon as the Supreme Court has decided the matter, we will see what assessments are made regarding body inspection. If it becomes necessary for the government to act, we are prepared to do so, and then we will proceed quickly. I thank Staffan Danielsson for the debate, and I wish him a Merry Christmas, a Happy New Year and a pleasant stay during the weekend.
i-579237035760c3c2-298	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked whether my position on whether the proposal on the residence permit for young people in high school can contribute to the maintenance of regulated immigration, with a clear distinction between those who have protection reasons and those who do not have protection grounds. We have regulated immigration in Sweden, which means, among other things, that a person who has no grounds for protection or other grounds for staying in Sweden should return to the country from which the person comes. In the case of an unaccompanied minor, according to the EU Return Directive, we are obliged to ensure that there is an orderly reception at the time of return in the home Member State. This is the order we have had for a long time in Sweden. Due to the extraordinary situation prevailing in particular in the autumn of 2015, the Government took a number of steps to bring order to the reception, including through temporary identification and border controls and the so-called temporary law, while improving the capacity of reception and establishment. The temporary law was adopted by the Riksdag during the spring and entered into force this summer. The law provides for the possibility of a permanent residence permit for a person who can make a living through work or business activities. In order to prevent young people who need to go to school from dropping out of school instead of trying to find work, the Temporary Act introduced a requirement that a person under the age of 25 must have completed an upper secondary education or equivalent education in order to obtain a permanent residence permit on this basis. In view of this limitation, the proposal to the Temporary Act also announced that the Government would return with a proposal for an extension of the residence permit for upper secondary school students for those young people who carry out their studies and an opportunity for them to obtain a permanent residence permit after completing their studies if they subsequently get a job. On 28 November, the Ministry of Justice referred to a proposal for a temporary residence permit for young people studying at upper secondary level. The proposal initially covers those groups that receive their residence permits for a limited period of time under the Temporary Act. This is therefore the case for persons in need of protection, those who are granted a residence permit on the grounds of special or particularly distressing circumstances and those with permanent enforcement obstacles. In addition, there are proposals concerning unaccompanied minors who cannot be expelled or expelled due to the lack of an orderly reception in their home country. These are very vulnerable children who, because it is not possible to execute a removal decision, will stay in Sweden for a long time and who will then go to school here. The proposal now before us will give young people under the age of 25 the opportunity to complete upper secondary school and establish themselves in the labour market. A person who is able to make a living through work or business can obtain a permanent residence permit if the studies have been completed and the person does not pose a threat to public order and security. The proposal for a permanent residence permit is in line with last autumn's agreed efforts in response to the refugee crisis between the government and the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats that at the end of a temporary residence permit, even if the reasons for protection have ceased, a permanent residence permit should be granted if the person can show a taxed income at a level on which to make a living. If, after the temporary residence permit, the person has no grounds for protection or has not received a residence permit on a different basis, for example because of the connection to Sweden, the main rule is that the person should leave the country. I do not believe that the proposal deviates from the long-standing Swedish view on how to uphold the principle of regulated immigration. The Government is now awaiting the views of the consultation bodies on the proposal. The referral deadline is 9 January 2017.
i-579237035760c3c2-308	Mr President, I would like to I followed with great interest the previous interpellation debate with my alliance colleague Staffan Danielsson. The debate focused on the important issue of medical age assessments. In a few years' time, we will look at the issue and describe it as nothing more than a great scandal that has hit many people in a deeply problematic way. It also teaches us something about the future, namely that disorder is not the same as humanism. It's just the opposite. Order and order are a prerequisite for being able to keep track of migration policy, in order to provide long-term and security. Otherwise there will be major problems, and there will be problems with popular acceptance. That is what we are experiencing right now. Very well! This is another interpellation. I wrote it in the light of the fact that it has not only been but is still a refugee crisis in the world. It's well known to a lot of people. For two years Sweden has received 250 000 people. The remarkable is the large number. A ten-year average has been that about 30 000 per year has arrived in Sweden. What we have experienced now is something quite different. It is not even comparable to what happened during the Yugoslavian War. So many people have come to Sweden in such a short time. Of course, Sweden should take great responsibility. We do, and we are well placed to do so. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that there are a wide range of problems, which are quite obvious to most people. As far as school is concerned, the most recent note is that some ninety municipalities have declared themselves because they are no longer able to meet the commitments of the law. There is an obvious housing crisis in a wide range of municipalities of varying political colours. The major problem lies ahead of us, namely integration. How are we to ensure that the large number of people who have come to Sweden get an entrance into Swedish society, can establish themselves here, can find housing, make friends, manage jobs and get a livelihood? That being said, how are we to avoid a world that is on fire becoming even more fires in our suburbs? That's the risk. That is why I believe that there is a need for strict rules in migration policy. They're supposed to be in line with what's going on in the world around us. We also need a long-term perspective. If we return soon to the rules that applied earlier, which I am not in favour of, I wonder what we have learned from the last two years. Against this background, the government has put forward proposals linked to unaccompanied minors. They mean that a person who turns 18 and has no grounds for protection should have his or her temporary residence permit extended until he or she has completed upper secondary school. Then a new trial will take place. In particular, Morgan Johansson's government colleague Gustav Fridolin has clearly stated that there is much to suggest that the person concerned will be granted a residence permit on the basis of a connection with Sweden. It is people who – I repeat – do not have grounds for asylum. I find this problematic in the light of the very long series of problems we see around Sweden in the municipalities. In that situation, we shall not only give good reception to those who actually have asylum grounds, who are refugees or alternatively need protection, but we shall also give this reception to those who do not have these reasons. How does it rhyme with the principle that Sweden should have regulated immigration?
i-579237035760c3c2-318	Mr President, I would like to The government and the bourgeois parties agreed a little over a year ago on a total of 21 points to facilitate the reception and, in a sense, tighten up the legislation. In terms of facilitating reception, we agreed on 10 billion more for the local government sector so that the municipalities will meet the big challenge. We made an agreement on the instruction law, i.e. that all municipalities should actually take responsibility. When we face a major integration challenge, everyone must share that task. One of the points we agreed was the transition to temporary residence permits in certain respects. This is linked to the fact that if you receive a temporary residence permit, then get a job and establish yourself in the labour market, you can refer to this and receive a permanent residence permit. If you can present a taxed income that allows you to support yourself, you should be able to receive a permanent residence permit – even if the reasons for protection are gone. The departures that Johan Forssell is talking about when it comes to regulated immigration are really: the job PUT, that is, you can stay even though the protection reasons have ended if you have a job. When we sent this out for a referral, almost all of the suggestions were met with strong criticism of referrals. The strongest was that if minors were to be included in this, they would not want to stay on the school bench for a single day, but then a 17-year-old or an 18-year-old would immediately go into the labour market to try to find a job as soon as possible. We should have driven out some of the minors in child labour. Then we said this, it doesn't make sense. That's completely unreasonable. In that case, we must ensure that we find a structure within the job-permanent residence permit that we have today where they can be allowed to remain in high school for a certain period of time so that they have a chance to complete high school and then establish themselves in the labour market. That's what the construction looks like now. The possibility of these residence permits will cover a total of four years and then six months in order to be able to enter the labour market. This is to avoid the situation where minors are being driven out into child labour. I think it is absolutely necessary to give these young people a chance in the future. I think it's going to go pretty well. I basically have a rather optimistic view right now. So far this year we have granted residence permits for almost 60 000 of those who have arrived. Of course, a lot of people are from Syria. Almost 100% of those from Syria that we are examining are granted a residence permit. I think it's going to go well for most people. Why do I think that? Because they are now in the strongest labour market we have had in many years of falling unemployment, falling youth unemployment, falling long-term unemployment, 100,000 job vacancies – the highest ever – and 120,000 new jobs in just two years. I believe that this is what integration is basically about, that is, the opportunity to make a living. We are only going to solve the housing problem and get the housing building up further. This year, new production of over 60 000 apartments starts – the highest figure in 40 years. We may have to get up a little bit more, but if we just solve it, it will probably go well for the vast majority who are now receiving a residence permit.
i-2Xrx4opYaq6QeFbUEsZF4U	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have said that if they can find jobs, employment, self-support, that is one thing. Then you should have the opportunity to stay in Sweden if you want to build a future here. But here we are talking about something else. We are talking about granting temporary residence permits to go to school in Sweden. That is not what we have agreed. I do not think that is justified in the light, I repeat, of the very big problems that we have. The problem is not just in the reception chain, where we still have almost 100 000 people waiting for information on asylum. I think the big problem that lies ahead is on the integration side, linked to housing, schooling, social services and jobs. The Minister for Migration points to a very positive picture. I have met many who have come to Sweden as unaccompanied minors. I am impressed by the drive, the power and the energy that many have mobilized to succeed across the globe, from Afghanistan in many cases, to Sweden. But it is not possible to turn a blind eye to the very large exclusion in the group of new arrivals. I believe that 54% of those enrolled in the Employment Service today are born abroad. You have to see it, too. If you don't see those problems – it's not just challenges but also problems we have today; it's a split in the labour market – I think it's going to be difficult to manage to fix them. We have the situation we have. This is the result of Sweden having pursued a migration policy that has not been long-term. It has not been sustainable. We have not been able to have a sensible discussion on these issues. For example, we have not been able to discuss how many people Sweden is able to integrate in a very limited time. In that situation, to say that we should not focus our resources solely on those who have asylum reasons and who are to receive a good reception without the country's municipalities also being able to provide schooling etc. to people who do not have asylum grounds may seem legitimate, but we must ask whether it is a priority. Is it really? I would also like to emphasise that most of the people in this relatively large group will be of age. You should see this in the light of it. Against this background, I think it is justified to maintain a clear and clear line. There should be a difference between yes and no in the asylum process. If you can arrange your own livelihood and get a job, you should be able to build a future in Sweden. But if you can't do it, you should go home. It is a principle that has been clear in Swedish migration policy historically. If we are to learn anything from the refugee crisis, we must stick to it in the future. Unfortunately, I have to express great scepticism about this proposal, and I want to make it clear that I do not believe it is in line with the migration agreement. That is not what we have agreed.
i-579237035760c3c2-336	Mr President, I would like to Again, we do not deviate from the basic principle. If, at the end of this residence permit, you no longer have grounds for protection, the basic principle is that you should return home. It's just like I said in the answer. I can say that if there are deviations from the principle that Johan Forssell is looking for is actually the job-PUT:en a major deviation, because it includes that if you do not have protection reasons but have managed to get a job you can still be allowed to stay. It is a much greater deviation, and it also affects much larger groups. In practice, it concerns all adults who are granted a residence permit. This is only about the unaccompanied minors. The choice for them I think is basically about either child labour with Johan Forssell's solution or school and a real job with the government. That's what we have to deal with. If they were to be covered by the job-permanent residence permit scheme, they would not want to remain in school for a single day. You have school duty until you're 16 years old. This means that we would immediately get quite large groups that stand and wash in the taverns of Old Town when they turn 16, 17 instead of going to school. Then Johan Forssell says: Shall we arrange schooling for these? That's gonna be a real pain in the ass for the local authorities. They're already in school. That's how it is. We have taken care of everyone who came last year – the 35 000 go to school today. The restrictions we have made – including the ID controls, which Johan Forssell also abstained on last autumn – have meant that we currently have a much lower influx. Now comes a 25, 30 unaccompanied persons per week. It is not difficult to cope with them as well when it comes to schooling and the following. This proposal will make little difference – more than the fact that the young people concerned are given the opportunity to go to school and thus have the opportunity to subsequently enter the labour market. The basic question of integration is whether this will go well or not. My view is that the vast majority of these young people, just as Johan Forssell said, have a very strong driving force and are very motivated in school. I think it's going to go well for most people. It is clear that if they can also meet an environment where youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years, they have even greater opportunities to enter and become a part of Sweden in a good way. But the labour market is only part of it. The second major part is the housing market. It may be the big challenge ahead – the labour market is starting to feel more and more secure with it. Although we have increased the number of new constructions, we need to rise further, from 60 000 up to a 70 000, over a period of years to meet the major challenge. But we're working on it. After all, right now we have the highest production in 40 years.
i-579237035760c3c2-346	Mr President, I would like to I shall repeat the Moderates' proposal to the Minister for Migration, in the light of the claims on child labour: we are therefore proposing this possibility for persons up to 25 years of age. I think it's a little strange to say that 25-year-olds would be children. I wonder if they themselves would appreciate being described that way. My experience is that most 25-year-olds wouldn't think it was very funny. As I have explained in the interpellation, today we see a wide range of challenges, not to say problems, and I think we have to choose. Where do we put the resources? Should we focus on being able to provide a good reception, good support and good entrances to Swedish society for people who have protection reasons? Or should we also give schooling etc. to people who lack protection? In this context, I would like to remind the Minister of Migration of his own words: we cannot accept all teenage boys in the Middle East, I think that was. There's something in it. But if it is to be more than words, we must also honour that principle in practical policy. At least for us Moderates there is a big difference, and we have made a clear choice. Let us concentrate our resources on those who actually have protection reasons! Then I think that the big issue in the future, linked to precisely the migration policy, will be: are we able to be long-term? Are we able to keep up the changes that have taken place over a longer period of time, or are we going to return very soon to the old rules? After all, they helped to put Sweden in a very problematic situation and meant that we still have big problems: 100 000 people waiting for a decision on asylum. There we, the Moderates, have been very clear: we should not go back to this. I certainly do not understand that the government has given a similar message.
i-579237035760c3c2-351	Mr President, I would like to It will be exciting to see what an alliance position in migration policy will look like as we approach the elections. While Johan Forssell and the Moderates pull further and further out on the right, the Center pulls further and further out on the other edge. You are on completely different planets, and you do not have a common migration policy today. And if you don't, you don't have a government capacity. It is only to be noted after the negotiations we had last year: if there had been a bourgeois government then you would not be able to meet that challenge. You would not have been able to bring about the necessary decisions we took – the border controls, the ID checks and the new legislation. Although they were difficult, I am convinced that they were absolutely necessary for us to cope with the situation. This year we receive about 30 000 asylum seekers. We haven't closed our borders. People continue to come to Sweden, and we continue to give people protection. But we are doing it now to an extent that we can actually do, and we are also cutting off the queues. This year, the Finnish Immigration Service will make over 100,000 decisions. Some of those affected will stay, about 55 - 60 percent. The others will be rejected. That also applies to this group. We do not upset the basic principle: If you receive a refusal, you must also be prepared to go home. But then there must also be someone on the other side who receives the unaccompanied ones. We can't send minors home unless there's a reception. I think that principle is also supported by Johan Forssell. We did this after the strong criticism of referrals, precisely to avoid a situation in which many minors would be pushed out into child labour. We don't want that.
i-579237035760c3c2-356	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me what measures the government intends to take to ensure that people receive decisions on new temporary residence permits in such time that there is no gap between the expiry of the previous residence permit and the entry into force of the new permit. Let me first make it clear that the gap between granted residence permits referred to by Johan Forssell is directly linked to the Finnish Immigration Service's processing times, which can be expected to be unusually long for a long time to come as a result of last autumn's large number of asylum seekers in Sweden. The Government has provided the Migration Agency with additional funding to prioritise the processing of asylum and permit matters and has commissioned the Agency to improve the efficiency of all types of permit cases. Even when drawing up the temporary law, the Government noted that in cases where a decision on a residence permit extension cannot be made before the expiry of a previous permit, questions may arise regarding, for example, the benefits to which the persons concerned are entitled. This summer, a decision came from the Supreme Administrative Court, which means that the payment of benefits will end when a residence permit expires, even if the person concerned has applied for a continued permit and is waiting for a reply from the Finnish Immigration Service. The Government predicted that the current regulations, combined with the current processing times, risk that a person who has received a temporary residence permit will not be able to obtain a decision on a residence permit extension until the first permit has expired. Such a situation would pose a number of economic and practical problems for the individual as well as for the municipalities and certain authorities. The purpose of the Temporary Act was not to impair the reception and establishment of persons granted a residence permit. It was for this reason that the government proposed that the temporary residence permits should be valid for at least 13 months so that persons granted such a permit would be entitled to benefits such as child benefit, maintenance allowance and housing allowance. The Government continues to consider that the temporary law should not lead to a person returning to the reception system or being forced to waive benefits or establishment measures for the sole reason that his or her application for a residence permit extension has not yet been examined. In view of this, the Ministry of Justice will shortly refer a proposal containing the necessary constitutional changes. The overall principle behind the amendments is that those who have been granted a residence permit and started their establishment in society should not risk having to interrupt that process. The constitutional changes are intended to enter into force on 1 August 2017, i.e. in time before the expiry of the first residence permits limited in time under the Temporary Act.
i-579237035760c3c2-364	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. I have written this interpellation in the light of the fact that the main rule of the new legislation on migration is temporary residence permits, as the Moderates have been asking for for a long time. Three years is the time for those who receive refugee status, and 13 months for those who are classified as alternative protection. At the same time, we are still in a situation with very long processing times at the Migration Agency. The agency says that there will be more than 15 000 extension cases in 2017, and I believe that the processing time will soon be 15 months, perhaps even longer; we will see. This is also at first instance. That is what I understand unclear exactly how resource-intensive the processing will be. In addition, some of the cases will need to be assessed on the basis of both an asylum and a labour market perspective. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast is based on the fact that the persons are not covered by LMA and need to be entered into the reception system only when a possible refusal has gained legal force. According to the Authority, this requires changes to the law. The risk is that a person who receives a 13-month short-term residence permit will apply for an extension and continue to have protection reasons but will not be able to obtain a decision on a new short-term residence permit before the first expires. The question is what happens in that situation. I have written this interpellation in part with regard to the people concerned. There is a need for clarity so that they know what applies and do not get caught between different time limits. The background, however, is also what we discussed in connection with the previous interpellation, namely that we must have order and order in the reception. We have not had that in Sweden. It has improved now that the situation is less strained, but there are still very big problems: 100 000 people are waiting for decisions on asylum and some 90 municipalities have declared themselves because they do not meet the commitments under the law, mainly linked to the unaccompanied. The question is who is responsible for these people when it comes to housing, for example, especially in the big cities. What happens to the costs? Who will be responsible for them, and how big will they be? Nevertheless, I welcome the message given by the Minister for Migration in the debate. It is a good thing that new legislation is being produced. If I understood it correctly, it would come sometime this summer. I just want to double-check to be sure: is the assessment really that the legislation will come into force before this type of case becomes a reality so that people do not have to get caught between the different deadlines?
i-579237035760c3c2-372	Mr President, I would like to The short answer to that question is yes. That is our assessment. As I say in the answer, we are in the final stages of the internal process in the Government Office. We will refer, as it says, shortly. I would say that we will probably be able to refer a proposal like this to you as early as next week. If we do, we also keep the timetable for what I am pointing to, that is to say, the entry into force on 1 August. Then we can also handle the situation with the glitch. We also need to keep working on the processing times. It is no longer the case that there are 100,000 waiting. We have grazed some of the long queues, so now there are a little over 80 000 waiting while in January there were almost 150 000 people waiting to be told. The Finnish Immigration Service has worked extremely intensively and will make up to 115,000 decisions this year. Only 15 000 decisions were made in November. Both the annual figure and the November figure are of course all time high. There has never been such a high rate of production when it comes to decisions before, and this is due both to the fact that we have strengthened the Migration Agency and more than doubled the number of employees in a few years' time and to the increased productivity of the Migration Agency. So you do more per employee than you have done in previous years, and that is also very important. As far as the processing times are concerned, the November figures that came the other day show that the average processing time for the decisions taken during the year is now 10.8 months. There is a risk that it will continue to increase slightly, but I believe that this increase will not be so terrible in the present rate of production and efficiency. From the point of view of integration, it is of course important for people to be able to make decisions more quickly, but this also applies to the gap, otherwise there will be a discussion on the extension dossiers that will begin next year. I appreciate that Johan Forssell said that it is better now, that you have better control of the business and that the efficiency is better. I can assure you that we in the government will make it easier for the Migration Agency and provide them with support as best we can and also, of course, put pressure on the Migration Agency in the sense that they will continue to deliver in the way they have done in the past. The gap will be fixed, and the new legislation will enter into force by 1 August next year.
i-579237035760c3c2-379	Mr President, I would like to We will look at the legislation when it reaches Parliament, and we look forward with excitement to this. For a number of reasons, I cannot stress enough the importance of increasing the efficiency and productivity of the Migration Agency, both in order to ensure that the individual does not have to wait unnecessarily long for a declaration of asylum, and also because this is an authority funded by taxpayers' money. There has been a substantial increase in funds in recent years, which has been justified in the light of the exceptional situation. But it is also important that taxpayers' money is used effectively. That's where I think there's more to be done. To begin with, I would like to say that I am convinced that those who work at the Migration Agency, all decision-makers in different positions, are doing their utmost and that they want well. However, I can also note that the internal audit report has pointed out a number of problems which I find worrying, such as the fact that each annual labour force makes an average decision every week compared with three at the beginning of the 2000s. We can be inspired by our neighbour country in the east, Finland, where I believe that each annual workforce makes four decisions on average. It is clear that there is a huge potential here to both shorten processing times and use taxpayers' money more effectively by just increasing the number of decisions taken. The report was problematic, too, because it described a culture where negative decisions were not dared to be made. They wanted to lift to a senior manager because it was uncomfortable. I can understand that. At the same time, this is not just a service facility, it is the exercise of authority. It is a matter of making both positive and negative decisions, and I think it is important that this process is very clear. There, the government of course has a responsibility both when it comes to pressing this in the regulatory letters ahead and when it comes to the Migration Agency's need for a long-term management. After all, it is now a acting Director-General. I hope that a permanent Director-General can be put in place as soon as possible, because I do not believe that these changes are being made simply by allocating a little more money. There is a need for systematic work from clear management, and I think it is important that it should be put in place as soon as possible. I would like to say once again that we must have a long-term perspective not only at the Migration Agency but in migration policy as a whole. We will learn from what we have experienced in recent years. We need a long-term and sustainable migration policy. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have made it clear that we should not go back to the previous rules. We want to make a new law that takes on where the old law expires. Then it is obvious to us that it should contain, for example, temporary residence permits and a sharp supply requirement in the event of family immigration. A new law will simply make migration policy work. We had to leave the time when Sweden had completely different rules from what was in our world without thinking about the consequences. I note that Morgan Johansson is happy to talk about what the opposition thinks and thinks on this issue. But the question is what the government thinks. There is certainly work going on within the EU, but if the Swedish Government wants to influence this work, it will actually make it easier if you have a clear position of your own.
i-579237035760c3c2-389	Mr President, I would like to Here at home, the Migration Agency will make more decisions this year than ever before, up to 115,000 decisions this year – all time high. Efficiency and productivity have increased, i.e. more decisions are made per case officer than in the past. Productivity is actually higher this year than it was in the last year of the alliance government, 2014. Although we have had so much else to do with a lot of people who have come, we have managed to increase productivity. So far this year, more than 100 000 decisions have been taken, and the approval rate until November is 59%. It is clear that there is a great deal of difference between different groups. Those who come from the Balkans hardly ever get a residence permit. Each case is examined separately to see if there can be individual reasons, but it is very low granting rates for them, while those who come from Syria and who we test have granting rates of up to 100%. The same is true of those who come from Eritrea, one of the world's hardest military dictatorships. The granting rate is somewhat lower for those coming from Iraq or Afghanistan. When you look at the grant rate for different months, it is important to understand that at different stages you sometimes treat different groups, and then the grant rates may differ. The degree of granting depends mainly on individual circumstances and from which country you come. Johan Forssell talked about what lessons we can learn from last year. I think we can learn two lessons. One is that a small country can do an incredible amount. Since 2011, when the war in Syria broke out, we have provided shelter for 148 000 Syrians. These are people who otherwise could well have perished in some bomb plot in Aleppo, Homs or Damascus. 148,000 Syrians — Men, Women, and Children! It is a fantastic task and our greatest humanitarian effort since the Second World War. The white buses saved 25,000 from the concentration camps. During these five years, we have saved 148 000 Syrians, who have come to Sweden. We've given them protection. A small country can do an incredible amount. But the second lesson is: A small country cannot do everything. If we are to cope with an international refugee crisis as large as we have – there are 65 million people on the run – we must help each other. That is exactly what we are doing in the EU context, which Johan Forssell was on. In Sweden, we drive that all municipalities must take responsibility. We are also pushing that all EU countries must be prepared to take responsibility. They're not always, at least not all of them. It is a rather tough negotiation with some countries to bring this about. There has been a meeting of Heads of State or Government in the European Council these days. I saw last night that there had been news that they had decided to finally try to get a new European asylum system and new asylum rules in place by 1 July next year, that is, during the Maltese Presidency. If so, that is very good news for us, because we have pushed for this. I believe that this is absolutely essential if we are to be able to do this properly in Europe.
i-579237035760c3c2-396	Mr President, I would like to It is of course gratifying that the Migration Agency is making more decisions now than before, but it is perhaps not surprising given that we have many more asylum seekers than before and that the resources have been strengthened to the agency. I think it's pretty obvious. It is good if efficiency or productivity has gone up a little bit. But I'm saying it's just not enough. It has to work better. There is a great opportunity here to shorten processing times but also to spend taxpayers' money even more effectively. In this context, I would like to highlight what I said in my previous speech. This is the exercise of authority. It's about making positive decisions when it's called for and making negative decisions for the individual – you get a no on your application – when it's called for. It is important that the authority has this process and does not take shortcuts to shorten the processing times. It is simply a matter of being thorough. A yes should be a yes, and a no should be a no. I assume the government will keep an eye on that in the future. Then there are lessons to be learned. How do we avoid getting into new situations with this long processing times? I share the view that a small country can do much but not everything. That is precisely why I believe that there must be a long-term perspective and clarity, not only against the state and against the municipalities, but also against the individual. One should know which rules apply in Sweden when considering which country to apply for asylum in etc. There is work going on, and I would like to conclude by giving the Minister for Migration the opportunity to be clear about whether he believes that Sweden should have temporary residence permits in the future – yes or no. I'd like to wish you a Merry Christmas, but it's so happy that we'll see you next week, for a new interpellation debate, so it'll have to wait until then.
i-579237035760c3c2-402	Mr President, I would like to Yes, some of us have the privilege of working right up to the last. My last working day is actually Christmas Eve, Friday next week. And I'll see you for an interpellation debate on Tuesday, I think. Is it surprising or not with the Finnish Immigration Service's production and efficiency? It is not surprising that more decisions are made when more people are working. But what is perhaps a little surprising is that efficiency has increased. When you go in with a lot of resources and employ a lot of new staff, there is a risk that productivity actually falls, at least initially. We haven't seen that. On the contrary, it has managed to increase its productivity in these years, from 2014 onwards. I think that is a fundamentally good rating for the Migration Agency. The average duration of proceedings for decisions taken this year is 10.8 months. The average rises a little month by month. But that's still where it is. Given how much you have to work with, I think that's acceptable. 15 000 decisions were made just last month. Actually, it's more than I expected, I'd say. Nor do I have the impression that the Migration Agency is backtracking to make negative decisions. As I said, there were 100,000 decisions and 59% of the grant rate. This means that almost 59 000 positive decisions have been taken. But there are also 41 000 negative decisions. I can't see it's very startling. It simply depends on what the world looks like and what the cases you handle look like. I am sure we will have to come back next week with further discussions on this. As usual, it'll be nice.
i-579237035760c3c2-407	Mr President, I would like to Christina Örnebjär has asked me when I plan to make proposals based on the proposal of the Children's Rights Investigation. Christina Örnebjär has also asked me which of the Children's Rights Investigation proposals I intend to continue to work on. I welcome the issues and appreciate that we share the ambition to move forward in the work to strengthen children's rights. The Government intends to propose to the Riksdag that the Convention on the Rights of the Child be made law. As early as in the 2014 Government Declaration, Prime Minister Löfven announced that work on making the Convention on the Rights of the Child would begin. One of the government's objectives is that Sweden should be one of the world's best countries to grow up in. Making the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law is an important part of its implementation. In order for the rights of the child to have an impact on every child in any situation, it is necessary for decision-makers and professionals to take the Convention on the Rights of the Child seriously. As a government, we therefore have a great responsibility to give the Convention on the Rights of the Child a strong position in Sweden. In February 2015, the Government decided to extend the mandate of the Child Rights Investigation to include a proposal for the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The government is thus working on and developing the initiative taken by the previous government. In March of this year, I received the report of the Children's Rights Investigation, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, becomes Swedish law. The report proposes a law on the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The report also presents the assessment of measures that need to be taken in the event of incorporation, as well as a number of other legislative proposals to strengthen the rights of the child in Swedish law. Consultation responses have recently been received from a large number of consultation bodies around the country, including civil society, authorities, municipalities and county councils. It is positive that there is a great deal of commitment to this issue. In the referrals there is very valuable knowledge that we take with us in the further work. In view of the fact that the proposals of the Children's Rights Committee and the views of the consultation bodies are now being prepared in the Reger ing Parliament, I cannot anticipate the preparation process by explaining what proposals we intend to proceed with. The Government intends to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law during its term of office. I hope that there is also strong support from the parliamentary parties to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. Experience from other countries shows that incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child into national law raises questions about how the rights of the child can and should be put into practice by public actors at national, regional and local level.
i-579237035760c3c2-415	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am very pleased that the Government is so clear about saying that the aim is for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become a law during its term of office. We are more than halfway through the parliamentary term, and it takes time to prepare such a dossier, because it is quite large. That's why I asked these questions. Much of what came out of the Children's Rights investigation is something that can be started without having to be prepared in this way. The study contains a series of proposals which, irrespective of the issue of incorporation, would strengthen the position and rights of children. Among other things, this includes a knowledge boost to raise skills in the context of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to make public authorities aware of their activities, accessible and adapted to children, and to make clearer links with the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Code of Administrative Procedures, the Aliens Act and, not least, the LSS. In a recent survey, 131 municipalities responded if they had started work on identifying the measures they need to take to meet the commitments proposed by the other Children's Rights investigation. Six out of ten municipalities answered no, some municipalities could not answer at all and only three out of ten answered yes. The Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law was something the Prime Minister mentioned in the 2014 Government Declaration. This is over two years ago. In other words, that the government wants to work on this is nothing new, either for us here in Parliament or in the municipalities. Waiting for the Children's Rights investigation is one thing, but now I think things should start happening. What the investigation points to is the need for a boost in knowledge. There is a need to improve the competence of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we in the Liberals have also exercised over several years. You need to show that the authorities exist. They need to be accessible to children and make their activities known, and the activity needs to be child-friendly. This too has been highlighted on several occasions, and this is not something we need to wait to do. On the contrary, this should have been done a long time ago, which I think the Government agrees with. Whether the Convention on the Rights of the Child is law or not, we are nevertheless committed to it. While several consultation bodies say that we have such a strong law on the rights of children that the Convention on the Rights of the Child does not have to be made law, Sweden last year received sharp criticism from the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child for failing to comply adequately with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Nor is that criticism new. These are criticisms that we have received for several years in various areas. Here in Parliament, we also adopt laws that run counter to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, for example regarding family reunifications, from which I wish we could back off. As I understand it, there is fairly broad support here in Parliament for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become a law. I sincerely hope that there is very broad support for children's rights. Either way, there are things that the Government can do, initiate and support. She can do this in part to prepare ground for this to become law, but mostly because children's rights need to be strengthened on many levels, here and now. This applies not least to our own authorities. What steps does the Government intend to take in this area?
i-579237035760c3c2-425	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Christina Örnebjär for her commitment during the year, so that I do not forget to do so. It is important to discuss these issues. When we talk about making the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law – as in other matters, such as gender equality – we are talking about transferring power. We need to talk a lot about this, and we need to remind ourselves of the importance of it, because there is always resistance to it when it comes to the end. We're working on this. This is a pioneer work in Sweden, for which I have great respect. Of course, we're going to move on with this. The Convention on the Rights of the Child will become law during its term of office, as we have said before. Now we've had a consultation round. There has been strong support for making the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law, but there have also been objections. I have great respect both for the well-prepared objections and for the support that exists for this proposal. We will endeavour to put forward as good, useful and predictable a proposal as possible. We have examples of quite close quarters, from Norway, where this has been done. The fact that one has such a law, and the process that led to it, has made children's voices more heard, both in legal proceedings and when officials make decisions concerning children. You hear children more and you look more to the good of children, which I take to heart. Knowledge has increased in Norwegian society and in Norwegian authorities and judicial bodies with the law, and the transformation has also accelerated. I hope that this will also happen in Sweden. We shall continue to transform, that is to say that we shall reflect this law in other legislation and not just make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law. That is why we will continue to raise our knowledge in Sweden as well, and within a very short time we will make concrete decisions on how this should be done. We will come back to the issue of authorities. I will come back to it very soon, when it comes to the regulatory letters for next year. Exactly what this looks like, I will go through then, but just as the honourable Member says, this is important. We have also set up a delegation on the Rights of the Child, which is primarily responsible for monitoring the work on the handling of the recommendations from the UN review of Sweden's work on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This delegation consists of non-governmental organisations with which we consult, both in dealing with the recommendations of the UN and in this preparatory work. We will contribute and support municipalities, county councils and authorities in their work on the knowledge of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We know that it is important, and that is why we are taking it seriously.
i-579237035760c3c2-435	Mr President, I would like to Competence is an extremely important issue. I also think it is a good thing that the Government mentions the authorities, because several of the referrals that came in were a little worrying. There were purely factual errors in the opinion that came from the JO, which was later backed up a little bit and tried to explain and clarify. It was said that there may be differences of opinion as to whether the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be seen in all its parts as a Convention on Human Rights. This is a little crazy, to put it mildly, because it is clear that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is in all its parts a Convention on Human Rights and should be seen as a whole. I am concerned that, among others, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen believe that certain elements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are unclear and that they would not act as a law. This is, of course, a convention, and it is written as a convention and not as a law, so it is clear that the text is then. But just as the Government says, this has been done in Norway, and the same objections were there. Then I might think that our authorities would have knowledge of this and not have to make the same mistakes again. We should be able to learn from there. In fact, Norway is running away from us in this area. They have come a very long way in terms of children's rights. There were several gaps in existing legislation that have now been closed. I would like to make another point related to this. It is sad and rather unfortunate that the amendments were not included in the Children's Rights Investigation Directives. We from the Liberals are glad that we got to the investigation at all when we were in government. It was not easy – as the Government has probably experienced, one must both give and take in a coalition government. However, it would have been good to include the additional protocols. The Additional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child clarify the risks to which children may be exposed in modern times. The Additional Protocols are simply several steps in the development of the Convention. One example that has been highlighted by Bris, Children's Rights in society, is that children are at risk of being recruited for armed conflicts even here in Sweden. It is believed that the first additional protocol only concerns children in other countries, but it is about children in Sweden who are at risk of being recruited and going abroad. It is both about boys who go off to fight and about girls who get married and are subjected to terrible abuse. This is stated in the first additional protocol of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It also states that the state should take all practicable measures to prevent such recruitment, and on this point we have failed. No one really wants to take responsibility for these children and for what happens. Vivalla in Örebro is an area that is pointed out. I grew up there myself and naturally feel very much about this. Instead of thinking about who is responsible, we need to do something. We need to act now. The same goes for when the kids come back home, who's in charge? I think that this too is something that we should be able to do at once instead of waiting. I feel that the Government is nevertheless pointing out that it is working in this direction, which includes several of the things that the Child Rights Investigation is proposing, and I am pleased about that. If the idea is for the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be proposed to become a law during its term of office, it is very short of time to start other things in the meantime. Can the Government develop this with the time span a little bit?
i-579237035760c3c2-448	Mr President, I would like to We're working hard on this. We do everything at once, but try to do it with high quality. I think there was a question on the subject of the Minutes. After all, we intend to do one thing at a time. The first important step is to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law in a good way. We are doing this now, and the second issue is being reviewed. As far as certain issues are concerned, I fully agree with them. We work with these too. Something that I have devoted quite a lot to during the two years and two months that I have had this mission is to strengthen social care for children and young people. It is of great importance to the most vulnerable children in Sweden, who have no one else to trust but social services, who may have the greatest confidence in these situations. This is what we are working on. We also have a national coordinator in this area who proposes various improvement measures and reports to me every three months. I have reinforced her mission in terms of concreteness, reporting, staffing and so on. We have talked about this in other interpellation debates, so we can address this in a different context. If you increase knowledge of children's rights in society and in several authorities, it is my hope that you will have more collaborations, for example between social services and the police. I have visited Vivalla and know that there you try to be visible, get to know families, find good ways to understand what children and young people say and so on. If there is then social services and police present who work with good conditions, you can do things already now. We must do this at all levels, on the part of the government and the municipalities and the authorities. Then I think that we have dealt with important issues. For example, we have recently submitted a letter on violence against women, and we have already set up a study on the legal status of children when they are in sheltered housing. Some time in a year the children who live in sheltered housing are more than the adults, usually mothers, but they are still a pretty invisible group. The investigation will look at the children's legal status and what needs to be improved. It will also look at quality of life in general. It is also about the right to education. We know that these children are being picked up from friends, sports activities and, above all, from school, something that they really haven't chosen, and end up in rather difficult situations. These are examples of things you need to do more about all the time and I hope you will see because you have children's glasses on. But we need to do more for more people to have them.
i-579237035760c3c2-456	Mr President, I would like to I fully share what the Government addresses about children with sheltered housing. We also want children who experience violence to be seen as victims of crime. I think that would strengthen the legal position of the children. The increase in skills in society and among our own authorities is indeed of paramount importance. As I said, we saw this not least in the consultation document. As I understand it, the Government is not particularly surprised that I raised the issue, that we have this interpellation debate at all and that I am on the subject of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child. Nor is it news that we want the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law; we have wanted that for a long time. Children's rights issues are very important to me. I would therefore like to thank the Government for its answers and for a good debate. I am in favour of the Council of State taking up the regulatory letters and hope that the issue of strengthening the work of the authorities on the Convention on the Rights of the Child was raised when it decided yesterday on the regulatory letters at the Government meeting. I assume, of course, that children's rights permeate all regulatory letters, especially as the Government was so sympathetic to that in the debate. With this I would like to conclude with a great thank you to the Government for the answers. I think we will come back again to these questions. I think we're gonna stand here more times and talk about this. It's important to both of us. I would like to thank the President and the entire Chamber for this year and wish you a really happy Christmas, as well as the Council of State. Many thanks and Merry Christmas!
i-579237035760c3c2-461	Mr President, I would like to Interpellation debates may have different characteristics. The fact that we represent different parties but have the same goals is good for the people who are staying in this country and who are affected by the decisions we make. Unfortunately, human rights are not as high on the global agenda as many of us would like. That is why we need to work together in our various networks and with the contacts we have in order to spread the message of how important they are. The questions are, of course, within the UN, and it is very interesting that is happening there now. Sweden will take over the Presidency of the Security Council in just a few weeks. There, Sweden will lead a formal working group dealing with children in armed conflicts. Many people look at what Sweden is doing on these issues, and I feel that there is a longing among many children's rights organisations and activists for examples that you can move forward positions. It is positive that we can work together, even if we do not agree on all the details. That is why I also appreciate this debate and look forward to working on this after the Christmas holidays. I thank you very much and wish you a Merry Christmas. As far as I know, I have no more interpellations to answer this year, so I have to thank you very much for the cooperation we have had this year and look forward to new questions and interpellations.
i-579237035760c3c2-466	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Cecilie-Toftby has asked me, firstly, whether it is my intention and the Government's intention to introduce a kilometre tax and, secondly, what measures I intend to take to mitigate the negative effects of such a tax in the interpellation and, secondly, what measures I intend to take to ensure that Sweden is competitive with other countries. The Government's ambition is for a road wear tax to be introduced. An investigation is working on producing a proposal for road wear tax and will submit its report by 28 February 2017. The structure of the tax is part of the study's mission to analyse, as well as the impact of the proposed tax on different sectors and regions. Once the report has been submitted, it will be prepared in the usual order.
i-579237035760c3c2-468	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, for your answer! The only problem is that the Minister for Finance's answer does not contain any substance at all. I can understand that the Minister of Finance does not want to make any strong statements as long as an investigation is under way. Nevertheless, it is reasonable, on the basis of the questions I have asked, to expect that the Minister of Finance, who belongs to a government that claims to safeguard Swedish competitiveness and jobs, would in any case mention that these two elements will weigh heavily when the decision is to be made on a penalty tax at a distance. I am very concerned about what the silence of the Minister of Finance about precisely work and competitiveness means in this matter. During the budget debate on 23 November, the Environmental Party's representatives explained that the kilometre tax is, among other things, something that improves competition for Swedish hauliers. It was not the first time I heard this from red-green representatives, so I chose to check out what the industry organisation Sweden's Åkeri companies think. They say that they absolutely do not want a kilometre tax and that it is detrimental to the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry and the Swedish industry. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson says in his reply that the Government will analyse the impact of the proposed tax on different sectors and regions. Although the Minister for Finance's answer today lacks all substance, I think today's debate is necessary and relevant. It is now that the Minister for Finance and the government have the opportunity to take on board the concern for jobs and competitiveness that the threat of a tax on penalties from a distance creates out there among those who will be affected. Therefore, I ask again: Is the Minister of Finance's intention to impose criminal tax at a distance even though it would be a threat to Swedish jobs, companies and competitiveness?
i-579237035760c3c2-474	Mr President, I would like to As I said in the interpellation response, it is the Government's ambition to introduce a road wear tax. The impact of such a tax on different sectors or regions is not yet clear, as can be seen from listening to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby. This is because we do not yet know what the proposal the investigation will have on how the tax is to be designed. Nor do we know what impact assessment the investigation is doing with regard to the effects of such a tax. The Moderates have often warned against the consequences of the tax changes that the government has made and said that they will hit jobs and growth. But when the tax has been introduced, the Moderates have after a year considered the tax to be good. We see that the consequences of government policy are that we have more jobs, higher growth and lower unemployment than when the Moderates ruled the country.
i-579237035760c3c2-478	Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson has previously said that you do not know what form the penalty tax will take from a distance and that you do not know what the consequences will be. It is now before the tax is introduced that you have the opportunity to take on board what they really say out there. Exactly a week ago I made three company visits to Södra Älvsborg. I visited Emballator, which is a successful industrial company in Ulricehamn, Hotell Bogesund, which is a nice and well-run hotel in Ulricehamn and Borås Car Charter, which is a family-owned haulage company in Borås. Everyone is a company with a proud tradition, plans for the future and a desire to succeed. They are three quite different companies but with it in common that they all depend on logistics and transport to survive, grow and develop. In this particular area, it is totally dependent, among other things, on truck transport. Emballator, which produces sheet metal packaging, must get its goods on the international market. On a direct question to Emballator's CEO Mats Nilsson about what will be crucial for his company in the future, he answers: well-functioning logistics at competitive prices. The CEO of Hotel Bogesund Camilla Ferm proudly tells us about the business and says that it is not the tourists but those who visit the industrial companies in the district who provide the guest nights. Borås Car freight, which has been run by the Nilsson family for three generations and which transports much of Emballator's goods into the world market, is concerned about the threat of a penalty tax and asks: Who is prepared to take the increased costs for this? Will Emballator and other industrial companies want to stay if transport costs are raised? If industry moves closer to its export markets, who will stay overnight at Camilla Ferm at Hotel Bogesund? Whose goods will Borås Car Freight transport?
i-579237035760c3c2-487	I understand that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is waiting for another investigation, but it does not hurt to go there where people are worried here and now about the government's tax shock and listen to their arguments. What do the companies and entrepreneurs that create jobs in Sweden need to want to grow and develop? The signal I've been given is that it's not a tax from a distance. Listening to reality is beneficial. You can get a pretty good answer to how the challenges of today and the future should be solved. Therefore, Mr President, I ask the Minister of Finance again: if it should turn out that the penalty tax at a distance is detrimental to Sweden's jobs and competitiveness, what does the government do? Are you willing to back off what the Minister of Finance has said about introducing a criminal tax from a distance?
i-579237035760c3c2-491	Mr President, I would like to I am grateful for the Minister's reply – although, as we have heard, it was not an answer, but an investigation has been set up. What is interesting is that, before this investigation is completed, it has decided to introduce a kilometre tax, i.e. a new tax on Swedish haulage industry and our companies. In the figures that figure together, it is about everything from SEK 4 billion up to SEK 10 billion that Swedish haulage companies and companies must pay. It speaks of a mile of tax of up to $25 miles [26 km]. It is not small money, and it endangers both the haulage industry and our transport in the country. This puts Sweden in a worse competitive position than we have ever been when it comes to our transport. It's strange that you don't make an impact statement before you decide to move on. The worst part is that the government has already started to tax the haulage industry. The tax on diesel has been increased by 50 øre, which means that a trucker who drives between 10 000 and 20 000 km per year already has to pay between 15 000 and 30 000 SEK extra tax per car per year. This is to be seen in relation to the fact that we already have the highest diesel tax in Europe today. In addition, the government intends to introduce a truck tax. Should it be so bad that the tax lands at 26 mil it means up to half a million kronor for a haulage company that drives 20,000 km a year. Everyone understands that if you put such taxes on Swedish haulage industry and companies, they will stop. Business and jobs are moving out of the country. The bottom line is that we get less tax than we would if we had skipped new taxes. Mr President, I would like to Instead, the government should tackle the major problem in the haulage industry and remove illegal traffic. We should introduce the customer responsibility that Parliament has asked for. We should put up the alcoboms in the ports that Parliament has been asking for, and we should ensure that we can trample for more than 24 hours. But this stuff the government has jumped over and not introduced. Thus, they intend to charge up to SEK 10 billion in taxes on Swedish companies and the Swedish haulage industry. You give back SEK 25 million in an increased investment in the police. That's about 30 cops working out on the road. Already today we have too few traffic police because the government has largely dismantled the traffic police in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is good that the 25 million are added to control, but that is not enough. We need more cops. Above all, we need better control on our roads, because that is where we have the cheating. Instead of dealing with the major problems, the government chooses to impose additional taxes on the industry and to collect even more taxes for its empty barns.
i-579237035760c3c2-502	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden thinks that you should make an impact statement before setting up an investigation. However, it is a bit difficult to make an impact assessment of a tax that is not even proposed for the design of it. But the Moderates can probably make impact descriptions because the Moderates generally think that all tax increases are bad when the government proposes them. But the following year, the Moderates tend to think they're fantastically good. What we hear in the speaker's chair is once again two moderate Members of Parliament who are evil about the terrible effects a tax change would have. I have heard that for the last two years, hour and hour in, in this speaker's chair. We see the consequences of government policy: good growth. We have higher growth than the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom and the highest growth in the entire Nordic region, despite the tax increases that the government has made and, as the Moderates have said, would have terrible consequences. We have the highest employment rate ever measured in an EU country, we have a falling unemployment rate and we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, even though we have increased taxes and even though the Moderates have said that our tax changes would lead to a reduced willingness to employ and to a deterioration in growth. The Moderates usually accept the tax change the following year. This also applies to the diesel tax, which Sten Bergheden mentioned. There, the Moderates have accepted most of the increase in their budget bill. There are a number of countries that have road wear taxes: Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Belgium and Switzerland, to name a few, but also countries that, like Sweden, have long distances, such as Oregon in the United States and New Zealand. There is an opportunity here to make a climate-enhancing tax change, and tax revenues should of course be used in a way that benefits jobs and growth. This is important to point out: all taxes collected affect the behaviour of companies and residents, but the way in which we use tax money also affects. We know that the lack of infrastructure is a major problem for many transport companies. Opportunities to use increased tax revenues to improve infrastructure or hire more police so that there is more order and order on our roads are also demanded by companies. It is important that the investigation is completed. We need to have an impact assessment, and then the government will make decisions and see how to proceed with the tax. But one thing has been clear since the government took office: we have managed to pursue a policy that ensures that we have good growth and good job and employment opportunities around the country.
i-579237035760c3c2-512	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that the government has promised to introduce a tax even if an impact assessment would show that the tax threatens Swedish jobs and companies. That is what today's debate should be about: whether the impact assessment is taken into account at all. I understand that the penalty tax from a distance will bring in money to the treasury which is glaring nicely in the purse of the Minister for Finance, but we must not forget that this money is being taken from anywhere. The question that the Minister for Finance and the Government should ask themselves is whether this money will not be more useful in the companies that create jobs and growth in Sweden. I do not know whether the Minister for Finance is aware that they are eroding their own tax base. You cut off the branch you're sitting on by punishing companies and jobs. Let me return to last Friday's visit, Mr President. Emballator, which produces sheet metal packaging – Mr President's gingerbread jar may come from there – has 30 trucks leaving the company every week. If you only count the transports from there to the border out of Sweden, a kilometre fee of SEK 24 mil would increase their transport costs by over a million. For Borås Car freight, which has 18 cars that together drive 227 000 km per year, the cost increase is 5 1⁄2 million. I therefore repeat the question put to me by the owner of Borås Bilfrukter Carl-Carl-Johan Nilsson: Who will bear the cost? Borås Car freight can't do it. Emballator clearly says that logistics costs are crucial for the future. Hotel Bogesund is dependent on the guest nights of a vibrant industry in Ulricehamn. Does the Minister of Finance not share the concerns of these companies?
i-579237035760c3c2-517	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer I received! It is clear that the Minister does not take on board criticism from the entire haulage industry, companies in Sweden, the forestry industry and others who are extremely concerned about the tax shock planned for Swedish haulage industry and Swedish companies. It has decided to introduce the tax regardless of the outcome of the investigation. It is planned to raise this money – SEK 10 billion – in one way or another. With 26 mil, it can be half a million for a haulage company that has a car if they drive 20,000 miles [20,000 km] a year. This tax is placed directly on production in Sweden and makes our distance so expensive that companies will consider moving from the country. This puts our jobs and our tax revenues at risk in the long term, but it is clearly prepared to go ahead and push it through. It goes without saying that this may not be the best proposal of the Social Democrats ever, but they are simply driven by the Green Party to move in that direction. They are prepared to sacrifice Swedish haulage industry in order for the Green Party and the Social Democrats to remain in power in Sweden. We have not put up for the increase in taxes on diesel and petrol, and we have said no to the indexation that the government has presented. These are new taxes that are planned in addition to the others, and on top of everything you put another truck tax. Once again, the major problems are not addressed, namely that we do not have traffic police and illegal traffic on our roads. This is where the requirements and gunpowder should be laid, not on taxing Swedish haulage industry.
i-579237035760c3c2-524	Mr President, I would like to I would like to make one point. When you listen to Sten Bergheden, it sounds like the investigation is already complete and you know both what proposal they make and what impact assessment they have done. I would like to point out that we do not yet know what the investigation will propose, nor what the consequences will be. We will receive the investigation. We will send it to you for a referral, which will give everyone the opportunity to express their views on the proposal. It is widely circulated to companies, business associations and business organisations as well as to trade unions and a number of others, who will have the opportunity to express their views on the proposal. Then the government will take a stand. But, of course, we have not set up this investigation without the intention of trying to find a solution. One advantage of a road wear tax is that it can control more goods to rail and boat in those parts of the country where such alternatives are possible. Another point is that it can steer towards more environmentally friendly lorries because it is possible to steer the tax in that way. In addition, if you have a GPS solution, you can increase traffic monitoring. In this way, through increased monitoring, there will be better opportunities to work against illegal lorry traffic, including in the case of illegal cabotage. One point of the tax may also be that it is also paid by the foreign hauliers. Unlike the diesel tax increase that the Moderates have accepted and now think is good policy and that strikes a lot against Swedish hauliers, because foreign hauliers often bring their own diesel, a road wear tax would be an opportunity for the foreign hauliers to contribute to the financing of our Swedish rail network. We know that the Moderates are against this tax now, but just with the vast majority of tax changes the Moderates will in a few years' time be for this tax too. That's the story. Merry Christmas!
i-579237035760c3c2-529	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked the Minister for Higher Education and Research if she intends to take any action on the grounds that there are differences in the structure and elements of the current police training depending on the higher education institution, and whether she intends to take any measures to improve the quality of police training conducted at Södertörn University. Furthermore, Roger Haddad has asked who are the Government's plans for Sörentorp, not least in view of the need for better practice in the practical field. Finally, Roger Haddad has asked whether the Government will pursue its policy of making police education academic and three-year-old. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Police Authority is the principal of the three universities that are currently engaged in police training. It is therefore primarily the Police Authority that should follow up that the training is conducted according to mandate. The commissioned education at Södertörn University is relatively new and still under construction. The first students there started their studies in January 2015. According to the Police Authority, it is somewhat premature to assess the level of police training there, as no students have yet completed the education. The fact that certain variations in the same type of education between higher education institutions can occur in themselves is not unusual. Variations in education, of course within reasonable limits and with sufficient quality, can enrich and strengthen police training as a whole. As regards the question of how to use the area around Sörentorp, contractual negotiations are ongoing at the level of the authorities, so that the area can continue to be exploited. Södertörn University may make use of the exercises available there. Some activities, such as national fort- and training, the task force and bomb protection, within the Police Authority, can also continue to use the area for their activities. In the spring of 2015, the government appointed an investigation into how a reshaping of police training into a higher education system could look like. The report of the investigation Police in the future (SOU 2016:39) was submitted in May this year and is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-579237035760c3c2-533	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister Ygeman for his response to the interpellation. I am not exaggerating when I say that the police authorities have great challenges and a lot of problems. This applies not only to activities and resources in local police areas. We have also seen that police training is particularly interesting in view of the objectives announced by the government and, not least, the claims made by the Liberals and the other alliance parties in relation to the budget. We want to increase the number of police officers by 2,500 by 2020. Evidence and reports show that there are significant quality variations in police training at these universities. And we have received indications that there are a lot of changes in police training, including at Södertörn University in favour of, for example, Växjö. It is important that the government takes these factors into account and examines whether it is the availability of practical elements that make some after admission choose to drop out of education in one place for the benefit of another. I do not think I have an answer to that. We have also asked questions about Sörentorp. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for that part of the answer. It is very important that the area in Sörentorp, where police training in itself is being phased out to be completely transferred to Södertörn University, can still be used for the practical aspects. This applies, in particular, to shooting routes, bomb protection, the Security Service and the National Task Force. This is an important area, and I hope that this function will remain. My last question, which I have also raised in the interpellation, concerns the Government's plans and promise to carry out an academicisation of police training at, among other things, the three universities that have been carrying out commissioned education since 2009. I have been in the inquiry into this as a reference Member of Parliament and not as an investigator. That is why we have not been able to reserve ourselves, but we have had views on the content of the investigator's proposal. Some measures proposed by the investigator would, for example, make it more expensive for the student by having to take out CSN loans. They can also influence the search pressure and the desire to become a police officer. It is also proposed that talent tests and personality tests should be abolished. This is taking place in the light of the fact that we already have a great deal of concern in recruiting and filling the places we have today in our commissioned work. I would like to repeat my question in the intergroup: will the government, S and MP, present a proposal to Parliament to academy police training?
i-579237035760c3c2-541	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad asked me two questions. The first concerns the quality of the various universities that the police have commissioned to conduct police university education. My answer is that it is the police who are the clients. It is also the police that must review the quality and ensure that the quality at the various universities is both high and equal. They do not need to be the same, but they must be equal. The second question from Roger Haddad was how I look at what he calls the academy of police training. I want to be very clear about saying that police education is academic. It's a college education. Today you get credits for the large part of the modules at all three higher education institutions a. As far as the question is concerned, whether you should also be able to assimilate credits for the practical aspects of higher education in the same way as a dental student or a medical student can do for their practical parts. The police profession is neither more nor less academic nor more or less practical than the dental profession. In this interpellation debate, I do not want to lock myself up on this or that proposal from the investigation. I have noted that the opposition in Parliament wants to participate and have views on how the education should be conducted in the future. I would be happy to sit down with both Roger Haddad and representatives of the other bourgeois parties and discuss whether there are ways of ensuring that the police can also take advantage of the practical elements of higher education, that we can safeguard a great deal of pressure in police training and that we can guarantee that we will have enough high-quality police officers to continue. Irrespective of what budget is voted through, we are seeing a rather large increase in the number of police officers. Then it is important that the education that we have is attractive, that it is of high quality and that it prepares police students for the reality that they are to face as police officers. Then I think it would be unfortunate that before we conduct these talks – I have had talks in the past with both Roger Haddad and other representatives – we are locking ourselves up for the exact form of higher education education. I think we should discuss it in peace and quiet. Maybe we can get along, maybe we can't. But it would be foolish not to take the chance to try to agree on what future police training should look like.
i-579237035760c3c2-545	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation actually covers an even greater problem, namely the problem of recruiting qualitative and skilled police officers for one of the most important missions of our democracy. Last year – 2015 – Sweden received 646 new police officers. But during the same period, 832 policemen chose to quit. It's a net loss of 186 police officers. According to information provided by the Recruiting Authority and the Police Authority, 140 seats have not been occupied in the spring. Both these authorities, but not least the Police Authority, who is the client of this mission, say that we will not be able to expand police operations with 1,500 police officers. This takes place in parallel with the Police Authority reducing the requirements for adoption, from level four to level three, in certain steps. There is also, once again, a process in parallel. An investigator has put forward a proposal directly on the basis of the Government's directive that we should have a three-year academic education – a higher education. That is what the directive says, and the investigator has done nothing but deliver what the Minister of the Interior has ordered. So she's done her job. We regret that the expansion of police training is not consistent with the criticism of the practical steps that the National Police Board could demonstrate a year earlier. Instead, it is proposed to extend the theoretical elements. And no, the Home Secretary-- it's not a college education. It is located in Sweden's higher education institutions, but it is not a university education according to the Higher Education Act. They do not comply with the Higher Education Act, and they have completely different requirements for recruitment, admission and eligibility compared to the real higher education institutions in Swedish higher education institutions and universities. So it's a parallel track. The Police College is a variant where you try to handle what is basically a vocational education but where students get credits for college-like points. Students receive a police degree after two and a half years, of which one semester is aspirant education. Today, the aspirants are guaranteed jobs, and they even have wages during the aspirant period. However, if there is a higher education programme, students will not be guaranteed jobs, and they will not receive money during that period. Instead, they are referred to the Central Student Support Board. So there are many questions and critical points that I think will exacerbate the situation we are already in. I'm glad I got word about Sörentorp. I am a little worried that the government only refers quality monitoring to the Police Authority, because ultimately it is the government – whether it is the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Justice – that is the client of police training at Växjö, Umeå and Södertörn University. I think it is very important for the government to follow the quality closely. I also think it is important that the government should not be hasty, given that police training places will not be successfully occupied. It will not achieve the Politice's own goal of increasing the number of police officers by 1,500, and that is a matter of great concern to us in the Liberals.
i-579237035760c3c2-552	Mr President, I would like to If Roger Haddad is possessed by what he claims to be animated by, namely that we should make the police profession and the police education more attractive, I think he should be careful not to claim that the Police College is not a real university education and that, in Roger Haddad's words, it is college-like points you get. I really don't understand what Roger Haddad is after. I think it's important that we ensure a good quality at the Police College. I also think it is important that you can assimilate credits for the education you receive at the Police College. If we want to recruit more police officers, I do not think it is an accessible way to pretend that you do not get a higher education degree or that these points would be less than the points other students in higher education receive. I think that would greatly complicate recruitment to the police profession. I think we need to broaden recruitment to the police profession. The recruitment basis looks considerably narrower than the population at large, and this means that we are missing out on important skills that could be involved in strengthening the Swedish police. There is still a far too low proportion of women among those who choose to apply to become a police officer. There is still a far too low proportion of people with one or two foreign-born parents who choose to apply to become a police officer, even though they have the necessary qualifications. We need to be much better there if we are to secure the supply of skills. As regards recruitment, places and retirements in the police force, Roger Haddad's figures are, of course, quite correct. However, two thirds of those who have left the police have left either because they have retired or because they have applied for police services within the Security Service, which was previously part of the Police Authority. There will therefore be a numerical difference but no difference in reality. Of course, we need more police officers, and we need more admitted to police training. But we have a higher rate now than when Roger Haddad's party was in government. It may still be worth noting. It may also be worth noting that we had more qualified applicants to the places than they were able to take in, and that was because they have a bad system of replacement places in the training. So it was not the case that applicants were missing; there were 8 000 applications to 800 places. Nor was there a lack of qualified applicants; the number of applicants who met all the requirements was greater than the number of seats. Instead, the lack in this round of admissions was that there was a back-up system that was poorly adapted. It needs to be improved and recruitment needs to be broadened. When it comes to the future of education, I do not share the image of Roger Haddad. I am also unsure whether Roger Haddad and his party are really expressing this picture of the future of education. We know that we have a police organization, a police management and police colleges that want this to be a higher education. We know that the police employees and the police union want it to be a college education. We now also have an investigation basis that points to a way to make police education a higher education. I know that Roger Haddad and others on the Parliamentary Committee of Justice have raised objections to some of the investigator's proposals. Therefore, I think it is wise to listen to both the proposals made by the investigator and the proposals made by Roger Haddad and the other bourgeois parties in the Riksdag – to see if it is actually possible to agree on the future of police college education.
i-579237035760c3c2-560	Mr President, I would like to According to the 2015 annual report of the police, there were 16 000 applicants for police training in 2011. Now we're down to half, i.e. 8,000. Responsible chief recruiter Betty Rohdin tells P4 Kronoberg that 2 000 of these more than 8 000 were not quite eligible to apply. But 6 000 were eligible, and to quote Betty Rohdin : Yet we have 140 vacancies in the police training until spring. Nevertheless, the government must be able to make any comment. Why is it that despite reduced demands, more places and so on, there are empty places in police training? Since it does not seem to have reached the government, I would like to repeat that in 2015 there were 646 new police officers but that 832 chose to quit. There's a net loss of 186 police officers. Even this year, we have seen that about three police officers stop every day, Mr President – and no, not everyone goes to the Security Service or retires. With regard to academic education, it is interesting that the government does not fully support its promises of an academic three-year university education. It is not I who claim that it is not an academic university education, but it is so in the formal sense. There is no higher education, and it says on different types of websites that it is college-like points. Education should not be academised, salaries for external service must be raised and the working environment must be improved – there are several things you can do to keep people and stop the drop-out, but the quality of police education will be an important part. Thank you for today, and Merry Christmas!
i-579237035760c3c2-565	Mr President, I would like to For the record, Betty Rohdin is not the head of police recruitment. Betty Rohdin is prefect at Växjö University and responsible for police training there. She is, moreover, a strong supporter of making police training a high school education – as well as police management, the police union and the police staff. Perhaps it would be time for the Liberals and Roger Haddad to step back and consider whether there is anything in the opinion expressed by the police union and the police authorities. Perhaps there is something in what all the colleges that run this education say. Perhaps it could strengthen the police profession and make it more attractive if you actually got a university degree when you become a police officer. Perhaps Roger Haddad would come with me to City Hall sometime to see the hundreds of newly trained policemen who proudly wear their blue shirts. I'm sure there would have been a point in that they had to take a real police degree. Perhaps it would attract more people to want to become police officers and do the important work they do in this country every day. Mr President, I would like to With those words, I would like to wish Roger Haddad a really merry Christmas.
i-579237035760c3c2-569	Mr President, I would like to Krister Hammarbergh has asked me how I see the possibility of introducing a system of part-time police officers, as proposed by the Moderates to strengthen police capabilities especially in rural and sparsely populated areas. Krister Hammarbergh has also asked if I and thereby the government intend to take some initiatives to investigate the conditions for introducing a system of part-time police officers in Sweden. The government will provide the police with the conditions to carry out their mission in the best possible way. An important measure is to allow for an extension of the human resource. The Government has therefore proposed in the budget proposal for 2017 that the Swedish Police Authority be added more than SEK 2 billion during the period 2017 – 2020. Statskontoret's first interim report on the reorganisation concludes that the political authority's operational capacity at national level has been strengthened. Resources can now be used more flexibly, and opportunities for coordination have been improved. Another starting point of the reform is a police force closer to the citizens. Efforts to strengthen local activity are under way, particularly in particularly vulnerable areas. Municipal emergency services, organised with part-time firefighters, are of great importance to ensure that emergency facilities are available that can quickly assist in the event of accidents throughout the country. However, there are several challenges within that system and the issue is under review. I am no stranger to taking measures to promote good police activity. Statskontoret's ongoing evaluation of the reorganisation gives us valuable information about its course and what may need to be changed. It is important that the transformation and analysis work be given time before any new major changes are decided upon. In the meantime, the focus will be on continuing to promote strong and effective police activities within the framework of ongoing reform.
i-579237035760c3c2-574	Mr President, I would like to It is becoming a tradition that I and the Minister for the Interior are having an interpellation debate on the same day that this House has finished its activities this autumn. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Swedish police have big problems is not much exaggeration. In the past, both I and the Minister for the Interior have noted that far too many crimes, including violent crimes, are being written off, even though they are subject to investigation. Cops resign, which is quite a new situation. This is partly due to an uneven pay seat. And places at the Police College are not added – not because of too few applicants, but because of shortcomings that cannot be linked to the reorganisation. In addition, it looks like we will have a heavily underfunded police force in the coming years. It is not a question of 2 billion this parliamentary term, which was mentioned in the interpellation response. It's less than 1 billion. And it looks like the police next year are at great risk of actually starting to go on credit, which is serious. Meanwhile, the government spends most of its time on watch politics. Now, however, we are going to discuss part-time police. This is a concept that we proposed during the exercise period. It is not about working full or part-time in your regular employment, but we have simply taken inspiration from the part-time rescue service. It is therefore not about today's mess in the ordinary police. It is not a question of trying to resolve the situation with the reorganisation; it must be completed soon so that the ordinary police can work. It is more a matter of concern that we will still have, even with a well-functioning police officer. We have low staffing in the countryside and in sparsely populated areas. These are long tension times. And that's a problem, especially at the prio 1 alarms and summer time. This isn't easy to solve. We also have problems with the fact that, in the event of special events, we cannot release additional resources. Previously we had a system of emergency police in Sweden. It was used a few times. It depended on how it was organized. It was organized as a war unit, and it was difficult to reach the people once they were needed. We therefore want to look at a model and an opportunity – without locking ourselves in on whether or not to implement it. It takes a pretty thorough insight. But with a glance at how part - time rescue services work, you may be able to get extra resources when needed. This is brought up to date in a situation where we have police officers resigning. If you stop being a cop, you're not a cop anymore. It would certainly be desirable to have a leg in the police force in some way, even if you are looking for a new career, and to be able to intervene in specific events. This applies, for example, to the ID controls, but we have also had riots earlier this year. There is reason to look at the system used by the Swedish Armed Forces when it comes to reserve officers. Nor should we underestimate the possibility that older police officers, still with full ability and extensive experience, can enter the service, for example when the pile of investigations is large in different places. I'll thank you for your answer. It's not very clear. It may be clearer in the next speech how the Minister for the Interior sees the possibilities. We should not link it to today's situation, but it should be a complement to a strong Swedish national police. That is our starting point.
i-579237035760c3c2-583	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by affirming that it can be a Christmas tradition that me and Krister Hammarbergh will be seen on the run-up to discuss Swedish police. It would be a good Christmas tradition. To respond to the claims Krister Hammarbergh made at the outset, I would like to say that we are now investing more resources than ever in Swedish police and that we have more employees in Swedish police than we have ever had before. That's what I'm saying. I would like to acknowledge the perspectives that Krister Hammarbergh highlights in the debate. I think we should look quite broadly at how other professional groups could assist the police, in sparsely populated areas and in extreme situations. Some tasks may even be removed from the police and carried out by other parts of the blue light. We should also look at how we can make more use of the police training given to people who have been police officers. All three perspectives are interesting. Could certain events, for example, involve better trained security officers? They're still under the police officer's command today. Could you use emergency services, which have a good geographical spread across the country, for some other things? They may be used to a greater extent in traffic accidents, for example. They are usually first in place. Could you have more volunteers in the police, either fully educated – in the way that you have in Holland – or with a lower level of education but in such a way that they could still play a role in special situations? All those perspectives are worth considering. I am happy to take part in such a debate and discussion. It is important that in this discussion we also bring representatives of the unions within the police so that we can develop the profession in a way that the police and police unions can be proud of. The aim is not to replace any police force today, but to get more resources from those who are trained as police officers and to increase the collective impact of society – not least in sparsely populated areas. It is in danger of being eroded by the exodus that has taken place in the past. But now the sparsely populated areas have still had a positive population development in many places in Sweden. For the future, however, I think it is important to use every tax chandelier as efficiently as possible, in order to get the maximum impact.
i-579237035760c3c2-590	Mr President, I would like to I just want to say a few words about the economy. Because I'm very worried about it. There is an increase next year of SEK 83 million. At the same time, the chief of police said a few days ago that he will spend 1 billion more. Even the total appropriations that have not been used up in the past are not enough. But we're leaving it there now. I welcome the fact that the Minister for the Interior is positive. As he says, it is not a question of replacing something that exists today. We're gonna use the cops we have to the fullest. We will also try to achieve greater efficiency in the organisation that exists. There's a deal. This is about when we cannot cope with all the situations and that we should ensure that we develop the resources where we find it difficult to man up. There we have the same view. I also think that we should see whether it is possible to make more use of unskilled volunteers than before. I think it's important to use the Home Guard in many situations. The Home Guard knows the local and therefore finds, and the Home Guard can support up in certain situations. As far as the emergency police are concerned, we have stressed that there should be a higher level of competence among those who do not have any training at all. In some situations it may be necessary to use coercive measures, and this also requires training. I also hope that a good discussion can be held, not least with the trade unions. There is sometimes an unjustified fear of taking in other professions. But we need all the skills we can get in the police. Following the positive view of the Minister that we can look at this, my question is: Is the Minister prepared to take the initiative to start writing directives for an investigation? This does not collide with today's reorganisation. It is a complement to a strong Swedish national police force, which we both want to see. This cannot be done carelessly, but it must be done properly. But then we also have to start work, otherwise this will take years. My question, then, is: can we see the directives in the spring?
i-579237035760c3c2-599	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it is a bit quick to move away from here to directives, but I do not rule out that we can do so and, if so, in cooperation. Then it is important that we do a pre-work and a delimitation. Some of these questions will find their place in various other investigations. There is a major investigation into civil protection personnel in sparsely populated areas, and there will be blue light collaboration. We're thinking about what the mission of security guards and the training of security guards looks like. Then it may also be reasonable to review the interaction between security officers and police. Examples of work that could be done by police officers today are the transport of drunk people who have already been taken care of by police officers. They may search drunk people, hold them, and cuff them. However, security guards may not transport them to medical care or detention centres or allow another security officer or security guard to take over, even if pre-trial training is possible at the detention centre. That could be assessed. The question of whether people with police training can work part-time is resolved. They do, but in that case there are enough available. It is very much about what future police training should look like, if we can afford an oversized education. We will have to address this in the discussions on the future police training that we discussed during the previous interpellation debate. I am also no stranger to investigating any of these issues in particular. However, I cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the spring.
i-579237035760c3c2-603	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Since it's Christmas, I'll interpret it positively. I wish the Minister of Home Affairs and his family a good and well-deserved Christmas rest. I hope there are not too many calls and that it is not the Swedish police that are causing this. I welcome the fact that discussions have begun to be held on reducing the proportion of tasks for the society's ultimate resource, the police. I regret the closed investigation that would be working on this, but we now see that the government has changed its mind. In this context, when we look at civil protection and security guards, we must also review a system of part-time police officers. If you rush off with other issues, there is a great risk that we will not get a whole. Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for your answer, and I would also like to wish the Bureau a Merry Christmas.
i-579237035760c3c2-607	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to say that instead of investigating the matter further, we have refined the main tracks in the reindeer farming investigation, namely the animal husbandry that is to be moved to the county administrative board, so that the police do not have to deal with sheep sales, as I read that the police did the other week. We lift the transport of handrails from other authorities and municipalities to the Prison Service's transport service. I see in front of me that there is a further cultivation of reindeer that does not need to be investigated in the first place, but is mainly about getting another outlet for that activity. I welcome all constructive contributions from the Moderates on this issue. Finally, I would like to thank Krister Hammarbergh for this parliamentary year. I welcome this interpellation debate and the constructive proposals made by Krister Hammarbergh to further relieve Swedish police from tasks that may be better carried out by others. With these words, I would like to wish Krister Hammarbergh and the Bureau a really happy Christmas.
i-579237035760c3c2-610	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I intend to take any action to ensure that officials from the Kronofogdemyndigheten can carry out their work with the assistance of the police regardless of the area in which the operation is to be carried out, and if so, what. The Enforcement Regulation states that the Enforcement Authority may request assistance from the Police Authority, if the executioner may be presumed to be resisting an execution or if such assistance is necessary for other special reasons for the execution of the execution. There is therefore already the possibility for the Swedish Enforcement Authority to get help from the police if necessary. This applies regardless of where the service takes place. It is not for me, as a minister, to speak on a case-by-case basis about how the Police Authority has acted.
i-579237035760c3c2-613	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although I am somewhat disappointed in it in all honesty. But I'll get back to that. Access to funding is an extremely important part of the fight against terrorism. If you can strangle the supply of money, you can also reduce the opportunities for these people to buy travel and dangerous goods – to name a few. The bailiff has a central role to play in this work, to secure assets and to collect the money. One day this summer, the bailiff would secure money on behalf of the Tax Agency of a man with suspected links to terrorist activities. Since there was a threat picture, the bailiff asked the police for help, but they turned it down. The reasons given were very worrying. The police explained that a few days earlier there had been stone stones and car fires in the area in which the man lived – it was in Gottsunda, Uppsala. That's why they didn't want to go with the bailiff at the time because they were afraid that the riots would flare up again. But we can't have that. We can't have a government that turns to violence and threats. We cannot let the stone stones govern when society is to act. Then the violence has succeeded. Or, as the IRS Pia Bergman said, this must not happen again. It cannot be that we are only acting against people where there is no security risk. Let's move towards a corrupt society. I think she summed it up well. We must not give in to violence. The police department has broken. It is an authority under the government that the Minister for Home Affairs is responsible for. That is the background to my question.
i-579237035760c3c2-622	There is only one obvious answer: I will do everything in my power to ensure that it does not happen again. But that answer does not give the Minister. Instead, I get a very brief answer, which is that there is a regulation that says that the enforcement officer has the right to request assistance from the police in an execution. Therefore, says the Minister, there is already the possibility for the enforcement officer to get help from the police, wherever necessary. That's what's on paper. What I note is that it clearly has not worked. My question, then, was not what the regulatory framework looks like – it is clear – but my question was what the Minister intends to do about non-compliance with the regulatory framework. I still have no answer to that question, so I am asking the question again.
i-579237035760c3c2-626	Mr President, I would like to Maria Malmer Stenergard and I agree. The enforcement officer has the right to request the assistance of the police and shall receive it. There may be individual events in which it may take longer than the bailiff wishes, but the police will necessarily assist the bailiff over the entire surface of Svea Kingdom. This applies regardless of whether it is a rural or a big city, city centre or suburban area. As I expressed in the interpellation response, I am prevented from speaking out on the exercise of authority in individual cases. However, the principle is clear.
i-579237035760c3c2-628	Mr President, I would like to I'm so happy that the Home Secretary is so clear. The principle is clear, but it is important that it is also followed. The police will assist the bailiff if there is a threat. The provisions on this are clear. In this case, it has been quite correct. In order not to happen again, action is needed. Society must not give in to threats and violence. We should be sure that the law enforcement authorities can do their job even when there is a danger of delay so that the rest of us can feel safe. We have a government which, when the shortcomings are discovered, does not roll up its sleeves and requires improvement. You cannot refer to the way in which the rules are applied; you must ensure that the rules are complied with. Anything else is unacceptable. In this case, the bailiff did his job, even though the police did not do their job. This meant that unarmed officials took a great risk of doing their jobs, which in itself is deeply troubling. The Minister suggests that this was a single event, an isolated problem. I know it wasn't. In my job as a bailiff, I myself have encountered many such examples. If the Minister is told by his authorities that there are no such problems, this is in itself a major problem, because this is quite extensive. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, this is far from the only area where the police organization is failing. The crisis is becoming more and more acute. We are receiving very worrying information that the police in the South Region have even had to deprioritise investigations for crimes such as theft, assault and threats, and prevention has also been given priority. Cops stop and choose other professions. In some parts of the country, there is no escape in the case of ongoing crimes. In Mellerud, people called the police for three hours without getting help while a man stole from Systembolaget, threatened the staff and broke a restaurant. The Prosecution Authority has so far this year addressed 107 formal demands for improvements to the police management. Only yesterday, Chief Prosecutor Pär Andersson in Malmö testified that murder investigations, normally to be investigated by 25 to 30 police officers, were conducted by only 5. He said: Not in one of the investigations in which I am head of investigation are the staff fully staffed. In my municipality of Kristianstad, they are considering hiring security guards to patrol the center because they have received signals from the police that it cannot handle this. Criminal investigations, justice and crime prevention are the responsibility of the state. All parts where the state is involved must work for the work for our security to be effective. The chain of justice is not stronger than its weakest link, and unfortunately the weakest link is very weak. There is only one winner in this, namely violence. Losers are all of us citizens who have the right to feel safe.
i-579237035760c3c2-639	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little concerned about what Maria Malmer Stenergard really wants to discuss. If she wants to discuss forms and problems with handrails, we can do that. If she wants to discuss the police in general, I'd love to. I do that all day long. She'll be happy to write an interpellation about it. In short, I can say that we in Sweden have carried out a police reform that was agreed by all the parties in Parliament, including Maria Malmer Stenergards's party. The government has provided more resources to the police than Maria Malmer Stenergards's party has ever done. And there are more employees in Sweden's police authorities than we have ever had in the past. We also have more police employees than during the time when the Moderates were in government. For the sake of order, this is worth noting so that Maria Malmer Stenergards's description of misery does not become supreme. There are a lot of places in the country where Swedish police go forward and make magnificent contributions. It would be unfortunate to withdraw them with such rather sweeping criticisms as Maria Stenergard brings forward. It's typical that the police are assisting the bailiff. However, there may be legitimate reasons for the police not to assist the enforcement officer at any given time. These may be tactical reasons or other police prosecution takes precedence. The measure that one authority needs help with could quite easily risk another for the police authority's more important action. Then handrails will have to wait until there are better conditions for tactical and practical reasons. We can't jeopardize major police operations for the benefit of a handshake. In some cases it is also a matter of prioritising between different police operations within the Police Authority. I understand that it can be frustrating if you, like Maria Malmer Stenergard, are the enforcement officer, but unfortunately the police have to make such priorities.
i-579237035760c3c2-645	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I was particularly sweeping in my criticism, but came up with clear and concrete examples of things where the police organization is failing. I don't want to black out the cops because they're our heroes. I know that every day they do what they can to maintain our security. However, it is quite clear that there are major shortcomings in the organisation, as I showed by concrete examples. These shortcomings have to do with the security of our citizens. I am here to discuss proceedings where the bailiff is not assisted by the police, but I would also like to show that this is not the only area where the police unfortunately have major shortcomings today. I have every respect that sometimes you have to give priority. However, I find it difficult to see that there may be many other things that can go before securing the money of a suspected terrorism. And I have very little understanding of the fact that people are folding themselves to the violence or are afraid to exasperate stone-throwers. I wanted to discuss handrails, but I didn't get an answer. The answer I received was a reference to the current regulation and that the enforcement regulation states that the police will assist it if there is a threat. Yes, thank you. I already knew that. The problem is that the regulation is not being complied with. The government cannot stand by and point to the wording of the law book, but must act in order for the Police Authority to start working. To put it differently: It is not enough to say in the form of government that the government governs the kingdom – the government must also rule the kingdom. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Presidium and the Minister for the Interior a good and quiet Christmas.
i-579237035760c3c2-651	Mr President, I would like to The regulation exists and it is complied with. The police will support you when you're handcuffed. As I said before, there may be cases where this does not happen, and it is perfectly legitimate. That is not a reason to change the law or the regulation. Yes, the government rules the kingdom. We'll be happy about that. With this particular government ruling the kingdom, the police have more resources than ever before. Thanks to this government ruling the kingdom, we have more police employees than ever before. Thanks to the fact that this government controls the country, SEK 2 billion is spent extra on the police and over SEK 1 billion extra on the Swedish Security Service. And only this year have some thirty new laws on serious organised crime become reality. If the police are now Maria Malmer Stenergards's heroes, she has a strange way of praising them. She merely brings out criticism and only highlights examples of when the police, in her opinion, have behaved badly. This could have been an opportunity to highlight at least a successful police operation or a successful police officer. I find it hard to imagine that other hero hymns are just about pulling the business down in the dirt. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to wish Maria Malmer Stenergard a quiet and merry Christmas. I hope that we will have as few cases as possible where, for tactical reasons, the police are not able to give a hand.
i-579237035760c3c2-655	Mr President, I would like to Nina Lundström has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to improve bicycle infrastructure and cycle planning. Nina Lundström has also asked me how I feel about a proposal to set up a national cycling office. The Government works to stimulate long-term sustainable transport solutions where cycling is a priority. With a shift of trips to the cycle and walking there will be relatively less emissions of climate gases and thus less impact on the climate. Increased cycling can also reduce congestion in urban areas and contribute to better public health. It is important that social planning promotes a sustainable social structure and a sustainable transport system with good opportunities to use the cycle as a means of transport. The Government promotes a social structure with good opportunities to travel collectively, on foot or by bicycle, including through the framework for urban environment agreements with a focus on sustainable urban transport, which from 2017 onwards will also include efforts to increase cycling. As Nina Lundström mentions, it is important that the continued work for increased and safe cycling promotes a more functional and user-friendly infrastructure. It is both about improving the existing infrastructure and creating new bicycle connections based on the needs of different cyclist groups. All stakeholders need to work to improve their choice of walking and cycling. The State is responsible for walking and cycling routes in the state main road network. The municipalities and counties are responsible for the local and regional infrastructure, but the state contributes to local and regional cycle infrastructure through co-financing through urban development agreements and county plans. This is highlighted in the Government's Infrastructure Bill 2016/ 17:21 Infrastructure for the future – innovative solutions for strengthening competitiveness and sustainable development, which was submitted to the Riksdag on 6 October 2016. In the infrastructure bill, the government proposes an increased framework for development measures. After Parliament's examination of the infrastructure bill, action plans follow. The Government intends to instruct the Finnish Transport Administration and all counties to submit proposals for new twelve-year infrastructure plans at national and regional level. The plan proposals describe the Swedish Transport Administration's and the counties' proposals for prioritization of various measures, which can include investments and improvements in, among other things, state walking and cycling routes as well as co-financing of municipal walking and cycling routes. The government works for an increased and safe cycling. One part of the work is to develop, in dialogue with stakeholders, a national cycle strategy. In 2016, this has involved a broad dialogue with municipalities, bicycle organisations and other stakeholders. The national cycle strategy is the beginning of a joint effort. It shall express the Government's ambitions and efforts related to cycling. It should focus on helping all actors to assume their responsibilities and aims to contribute to an increase in cycling. Increased and more coordinated knowledge in the field of cycling is important. Regarding Nina Lundström's question about a national cycling office, we refer to the fact that the national cycling strategy and the issues dealt with within it are currently being prepared in the Government Office. The Government's ambition is to return to Parliament in the near future.
i-579237035760c3c2-662	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The question that arises is: Is it a priority to improve the conditions for cycling? It is a bit difficult to interpret the level of ambition of the response that has been given. At the same time, it is gratifying that there are many of us who feel a great deal of commitment to improving the conditions for cycling. But when we look at the concrete decisions, we can say that they are more fine words than concrete proposals. The government has not yet come back with this national cycle strategy, despite an announcement by Parliament this spring. This is one of the many measures needed for improved conditions for cycling. I'll list some factors that I think affect the planning, not least for those who bike. There is a need for better and many more measures to improve infrastructure. It's a factor. The second is that there are major gaps in knowledge and that the knowledge that exists is often located in islands at local level. There is not enough power to gather the good examples so that you can learn from them. It is also the case that mistakes are often repeated; when new infrastructure is created there are still sometimes poor solutions. Cycling is not considered to be a separate mode of transport or transport, which has an impact in all decisions and in the monitoring of the use of funds. The Swedish state's own research institute VTI has pointed out the need to concentrate on skills issues. They have also actually been involved in finding a solution for this, but lack funding. There are no cooperation platforms for cycling. It is a little interesting that the only people who are currently doing research to develop safety issues for cyclists are insurance companies. They are the ones who feel that commitment. There is a lack of a way to build on best practice, knowledge and competence at national level. This is where it gets a little interesting with the Government's response, because it is not quite clear whether the Government and the Government will support the introduction of a competence centre at national level. One could also interpret the answer given here today, which refers to county plans and the work done at local level, as the responsibility still lies with the local actors. My first supplementary question to the Government is: Does the Government see the need for a pooling of forces at national level with a centre of competence and a cabinet that gathers the existing experiences and can help to develop new knowledge, or is this exclusively a regional and local issue? The second question that arises is what role cycling plays as a mode of transport and transport. Is there a level of ambition from the government to really make sure that it becomes its own traffic law? This could affect both the accounting and the direction of funds and other actions. I would also like to know when the cycle strategy will come. Will this type of element be included in the cycling strategy, or are other types of measures envisaged?
i-579237035760c3c2-671	Mr President, I would like to As I tried to express in my answer, the government sees that it is very important to develop an increased and safe cycling and that cycling is a health-promoting, climate-promoting and also space-creating way of getting around, especially in cities, but also elsewhere. I would like to remind you that the current national plan, which runs from 2014 to 2025 and does not include the required specific efforts on cycling, was decided by the previous government in 2014. Now, here in Parliament, we have decided on a new infrastructure bill, which will form the basis for the next action plan. It contains considerably more money than the current plan does. Priority actions are a matter for the next steps. I referred to the bicycle strategy with which the government is currently working and which we intend to present shortly. There will be a number of supplementary questions. Of course, I will not anticipate the presentation of this strategy in this interpellation debate. But the strategy is an expression of the government's need for a comprehensive approach to cycling. This does not necessarily mean that the state takes on a new and greater responsibility for cycling, because it is a shared responsibility between many different actors. But the need for a comprehensive approach to cycling and a concerted approach to what needs to be done also sees the government, and therefore we have developed a cycling strategy that will be presented shortly.
i-579237035760c3c2-674	Mr President, I would like to In view of the fact that the Government mentions the infrastructure bill, we can conclude that there is no comprehensive approach in this way. Let us start with the question of financing. The Government refers to the fact that the so-called urban environment agreements can be used – to what extent is a question mark – for bicycle measures from 2017. This will, in principle, only apply for a few years, because there are no funds allocated in the infrastructure bill or clear proposals for the urban environment agreements to be in place by 2029. My first supplementary question to the Government is this: does the Government believe that it is still the case that the urban environment agreements will be in place until 2029? Where is the decision? In any case, that decision has not been taken by the Riksdag during the week's votes. The second is why it is not possible to set up a clear allocation as for other modes of transport. For example, we in the Liberals have proposed the creation of an appropriation for the national centre of excellence and the provision of clear money. For us it is initially about SEK 75 million in the budget in a clear allocation for infrastructure measures and SEK 1 billion until 2029. The government has allocated 622.5 billion in infrastructure planning, and the Liberals have proposed 623.5 billion. Now it is the government's budget and the framework of the infrastructure bill that has won. But here we want to make it clear that we need to make a clear effort here as for the other modes of transport so that we can follow the measures. It also gives a signal to all local actors who are to co-finance, that the funds are available. It is difficult to understand why we cannot have the clarity of cycling measures that we have for all other types of transport that exist so that we can follow how the money is spent. The fuzzy introduction of certain funds into urban development agreements, which are also very short-term on a couple of years' basis, does not allow for long-term planning. When building dense cities and developing housing and other infrastructure, it should also be important to enable pedestrians and cyclists to move around in society – for the reason that it is both climate- and environmental-smart to contribute to this. This is where it gets really weird. On the one hand, it seems that we agree that cycling is important. On the other hand, the tools in the toolbox are missing to enable this. Everyone who works with infrastructure issues, not least in dense cities, knows that it is very difficult to take action afterwards. If you had planned from the beginning, you would have had room for the infrastructure. It also presupposes the existence of funds, money, in order to be able to take joint responsibility. It is also because part of the bow is not just for the municipalities. People commute between municipalities, and sometimes quite a few municipalities. That's where the regional strings are needed. The question arises again. Why is it not possible to have clear appropriations for bicycle measures? Why not a grant to set up a centre of excellence, so that not everything stands and falls by the fact that there is no funding? The government has done it for public transport and has also given a mission to VTI, but it has not done so for cyclists. Why?
i-579237035760c3c2-685	Mr President, I would like to I could return that question to Nina Lundström. When the Liberals were in government when the current national plan was decided in 2014: Why did the then government not set aside special efforts for cycling? Why didn't a bicycle cansty be set up? Why is cycling hardly mentioned at all in the current action plan? This government will pay attention to the importance of cycling in society. We have worked in broad collaboration with many different actors to develop a cycling strategy that will soon be presented. As regards what measures are identified there, it will not be a very concrete catalogue of individual actions. Rather, it is a strategy and a platform for further work. There we will express the ambitions of the government in this area. The planning of measures that the Finnish Transport Administration will shortly begin will also eventually lead to special investments in cycling, which unfortunately did not happen in 2014. I would like to return to these questions. We fully agree that cycling is important. It is fun that the Liberals have discovered cycling after two years in opposition. I look forward to continued good cooperation on increasing cycling and not least the safety of cyclists in Sweden.
i-579237035760c3c2-689	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to read on the Riksdag's website what proposals have been made for bicycle measures from members of the Liberals but also from the Liberals themselves. We can discuss back in time and what should have done so. What is interesting is that there are now opportunities to make new and better decisions. The announcement relating precisely to a national bicycle strategy was in one of my own motions that was treated favourably. I'm very glad it was an announcement. It is the Riksdag that has given a mission and sent a signal to the government that this is important. This is because there is such a great deal of commitment in Parliament. There's a bike network. Many members from different parties also feel a warm commitment. It is not least a question of contributing to public health, the issue of climate and the environment and of continuing to develop infrastructure. Expectations are also high in getting concrete action. Everyone is waiting impatiently for this cycle strategy. But when it was developed there were some things that were not clearly accentuated, for example with the competence center. The state's various own works and authorities can see a great advantage from pooling competence. Every time we hear actors and local representatives saying that we need advice, and there is no place to turn to get the best advice, it is a major shortcoming. Mr President, I would like to Given this impatience – even if we are approaching Christmas and New Year holidays, and it is not easy to ride a bike right now – I think many are waiting for an answer. When's the cycle strategy coming up? Can the Minister consider including the important components that are not clearly accentuated, competence centres and a clear envelope for cycling as a mode of transport?
i-579237035760c3c2-694	Mr President, I would like to The bicycle strategy that the government had made quite regardless of announcement or not, because it is a priority for the government, will be presented as soon as it is completed, which will happen in the near future. I have answered it several times, and I will answer it again. It will be presented when it is ready in the Government Office, and it will happen shortly. With regard to the urban environment agreements, it is the same with them as with all the other specific measures in the infrastructure bill. It will be clear from the action plan in due course what resources will be allocated and over what period of time. It is also important to remember that the urban environment agreements are based on the fact that it is the costs of municipalities and that the state goes in and co-finances sustainable urban transport solutions. This applies, among other things, to public transport, but now also to the possibility of cycling measures. It will build on what is demanded from the cities. There the needs can look a little different. This is a good way for the state to accelerate and support positive development in cities around Sweden. The urban environment agreements have so far been very successful. It would have been fun if there had been a broader line-up from more parties around the urban environment agreements and that way of working. We will come back with measures. I agree with the need to be able to share best practice and to have a clear follow-up and knowledge about cycling. But what form it will take, please let me come back to.
i-579237035760c3c2-699	Mr President, I would like to Nina Lundström has asked me how I intend to act in order to take advantage of the views of the stakeholders in the railway sector regarding future implementation plans and the implementation of Ertms ahead of the Government's forthcoming decisions regarding the Work Plan for Ertms, whether I will take into account the possibility of postponing the deployment of Ertms and what measures I intend to take to ensure that no deployment takes place by less than that Ertms proves to be in line with the quality requirements. The European Rail Traffic Management System (Ertms) is an EU common signalling system. The ERTMS deployment has started and will be implemented in a coordinated manner in Sweden and the EU (as well as Norway and Switzerland) to enable efficient cross-border train traffic. Sweden and the other Member States are required by EU legislation (TEN-T Regulation) to implement Ertms on their core network by 2030. The Finnish Transport Agency has overall responsibility for the planning and implementation of Ertms in the Swedish rail system. The implementation planning shall, in accordance with government decisions in December 2012, be carried out in close cooperation with representatives of the equipment industry, railway undertakings and other traffic organisers. In autumn 2015, the Finnish Transport Agency decided on a deployment plan for Ertms that intends to meet both current EU requirements and the necessary exchange rates for the current signalling system. The implementation plan was drawn up in consultation with stakeholders in the rail sector and is therefore not new to them. In its communication with the ERTMS coordinator regarding the Work Plan for Ertms, Sweden has based itself on the implementation plan decided by the Swedish Transport Administration. This is reflected in the proposal by the ERTMS coordinator appointed by the European Commission for the Work Plan for Ertms, which was accepted by Sweden in letter to the ERTMS coordinator on 28 October this year, pointing out that the funding currently only extends until 2025. In order for the Work Plan timetable to replace the current Ertms Deployment Plan and to be transposed into EU law, a vote in the TEN-T Committee on the draft implementing act developed by the ERTMS coordinator is required first. Such a vote was held on 7 December this year, and the Member States agreed to the Commission's proposal for a new timetable. Sweden was among the Member States that voted in favour of the proposal. The Government currently sees no reason to object to the timetable in the implementing act as it complies with the implementation plan developed by the Finnish Transport Administration. In addition, there is the possibility to request an exemption from the introduction of Ertms in cases that cannot be justified for socio-economic cost-benefit reasons. According to EU legislation, Sweden and other Member States are required to develop national implementation plans regarding the introduction of requirements on control-command and signalling in the rail system, including Ertms. Trafikverket is responsible for developing such a national implementation plan. I assume that the Authority, in accordance with its government mandate, will do so in close cooperation with representatives of the equipment industry, railway undertakings and other traffic organisers. For Sweden, and for several other countries, the ERTMS project is, in addition to a project to promote cross-border rail traffic, to consider as a maintenance and reinvestment project of the railway's necessary signalling safety system. The current signal security system consists of old-fashioned switchboards and an out-of-date protection system. The ERTMS project means that all switchboards are replaced and the protection system is replaced with Ertms, which is a more modern one. Change of switchboards will need to be done regardless of which safety system is used on the Swedish rail network. According to Trafikverket, replacing the switchboards with the current safety system and then switching to Ertms would mean an additional cost of between 20 and 40 percent per route. The ERTMS project provides a more modern system with better reliability, which means, among other things, fewer signal errors and lower maintenance costs compared to the current system. Any postponement of the ERTMS introduction would mean that Sweden would not be able to comply with the coordinated implementation and legislation in the EU. In addition, the current safety system, ATC, which is less reliable than Ertms, would need to be maintained in this period, ultimately leading to increased costs for ERTMS deployment. As mentioned above, there is the possibility to request an exemption from the introduction of Ertms in cases which cannot be justified on the basis of socio-economic cost-benefit considerations. As I said, the Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for planning and implementing Ertms in the Swedish rail system. The Authority has made it clear that no commissioning can take place unless the system proves to be in line with the quality requirements. I assume that Trafikverket will live up to this and will keep me informed of how the work is progressing.
i-579237035760c3c2-705	Mr President, I would like to The questions I have raised concern the introduction of the new signalling system for railways called Ertms. Now, this autumn, a revision of the work plan that was adopted many years ago is under way. Why, then, is a revision being carried out right now? Because the previous work plan has not been implemented because there are a number of different challenges to this. Sweden is thus able to influence the work, given that Sweden is one of the countries covered by the project to introduce a new signalling system. The EU's vision is to increase the competitiveness of rail in Europe without barriers at border crossings. This was the purpose of starting work to review, among other things, the signalling systems. The aim is to create nine corridors where trains can roll. It is in itself an important and good project. But for Sweden this introduction is about SEK 34 billion in investments. We see technical problems, systems that are not ready and adjustments for each section. It'll be expensive. The software in the trains must be adapted and developed. It is precisely the implementation and the major challenges that have raised so much criticism. There are many problems. The project started several mandates ago, and it has faced a number of challenges. These problems are sometimes the result of policies aiming to determine technical solutions. It should really be about how to facilitate transport from A to B. Sweden can learn from other countries. It should be borne in mind that Denmark is rolling out the ERTMS project with major delays. Norway will soon begin its implementation. Sweden has so far chosen to go a little ahead. Why not wait and see what happens in other countries? We need to learn from digitalisation from Norway and from Denmark also in order to create good risk management. It is the physical implementation and commissioning on the routes that are not fail safe due to the problems that exist. I have a supplementary question to the Government given that it is clear that there are also views in the Riksdag on the implementation and how this should be done. How do the Government intend to listen to the criticisms of various stakeholders? How will the criticism that exists be taken into account? Many of the actors who are out in the debate now point out that Sweden should take it a little calmer, wait and see that the systems develop and not go ahead because of the great risks that exist. The risks involved are simply that trains should roll and roll on time. There is concern that there will be a stoppage in the system and that freight transport will not arrive. In addition, upgrading the system is expensive. My next question to the Government is: are the Government prepared to wait if you see that the problems have not been solved?
i-579237035760c3c2-714	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my response to the interpellation, it is the Swedish Transport Administration that has the government's mission to continue working on the introduction of Ertms in Sweden. It is not the case that Sweden takes precedence, but this has already been introduced in some countries. The introduction has also been further advanced in several other countries, including Denmark, which is highlighted in the supplementary question. It is true that the introduction has been postponed, but not until after 2030. Sweden's goal is to be ready by 2030 but not before, while Denmark intends to complete its implementation by 2023. So it is not that Sweden in any way runs far ahead of all other countries in this regard. The Finnish Transport Agency is a member of something called the Ertms User Group. It is a group of infrastructure managers that aims to coordinate and contribute to the future Ertms technical specifications. In addition to Trafikverket there are other infrastructure managers from Germany, France, Norway and Denmark. There are also agreements today between Trafikverket, Banedanmark and the Öresundsbro consortium. There is also an ongoing similar agreement with Jernbaneverket in Norway. Cross-border cooperation is therefore in place. Both the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency have meetings, meetings and seminars with stakeholders about four to six times a year where the industry's views are heard. I assume, of course, that Trafikverket will handle the situation unless the implementation can be carried out in a way that is safe and controlled. It has been clear that on the runways, in particular the Bothnia Line, where Ertms is already in place, there have been quite a lot of problems at the outset. Today, however, the punctuality on the Bothnia Line is better than on the average track in Sweden. It also suggests that this is a way that, when it is controlled and introduced and childhood diseases are completed, is effective to operate in Sweden. I assume that Trafikverket will make sure that you now have proper tests before pressing the button for the next part of the track so that this will really work. When I have contact with Trafikverket, they express exactly that but also that they intend to have close contact with the operators and other stakeholders, which is also part of the government mission they have. So the Transport Administration is holding on to this. We are not prepared to postpone the introduction, because it would involve more costs and possibly a breach of European legislation. I assume, however, that the Finnish Transport Administration will do this in a controlled and good way.
i-579237035760c3c2-720	Mr President, I would like to There are many different factors in the implementation. A typical example of this is that the switchboards themselves require the introduction of Ertms. I can note that you are looking at this and from a political point of view you are trying to follow what is actually being done, you can see that in Gothenburg and Hallsberg, for example, the ATC 2 switchboard is still being implemented. There is no contradiction in the introduction of ATC 2, which could not be used in the long term for Ertms. This switchboard and technology discussion I was going to leave behind but just want to note that there are different views on what can actually be done with upgrades of switchboards also long-term in terms of digitalisation. Another point that I think is important to note is that, not least in EU cooperation, competition issues have been very important. It was also a reason for starting this project. My supplementary question to the Government is how the competitive situation is affected when operators cannot or do not want to invest in the locomotives that exist because of the cost of the investment. What will be the long-term competitive situation with the problems that exist? If you are to invest 9 – 10 million and you are not sure that it is safe or that the risks are not there, I can understand that you feel a very great uncertainty. I also note, in view of what the Government says, that many contacts have been made. Perhaps this has been the case, but we in committee have also received the letters from the Train Operators, Norrtrag and the companies buying services, transport, on the tracks, and we can see that there is a great deal of concern. The expression of whether the tracks are tail safe or not recurs constantly. One is concerned about the consequences that may arise, not least on the Malmbanan and on the Södra Stammerbanan. If there are malfunctions, the consequences will be very great. Therefore, there is an undertone of an appeal here to try to implement this in a way that does not take the great risks that can mean total stoppages in traffic. The Government and the Government are still guilty of the answer. Work is currently under way within the EU to review the work plan, and when it comes to the signals that exist in Sweden, one wonders a little how the Government and Government take them into that work. If the original work plan had been followed, everything would have been fully implemented by 2020, and there is no way of doing so. So there are many different factors here and also an opportunity for the government to listen to the criticism that exists. My question to the Government is: What is the next route where you will implement this and adapt the products that will be there? In Norway, one takes a holistic approach. Why not wait for Norway to do and also wait for the other countries that will look at more secure solutions? We can see that there are countries which are having exactly the same discussion on this. The question should also be asked why the work plan has not been implemented. Well, that's because there are a number of technical problems. What I think we can do in Sweden is listen to the criticism and uncertainty that exists. I believe that both I and the Government feel the greatest commitment to the trains running on time and to the fact that it is safe to operate. How will Sweden continue to work within the framework of EU cooperation to express these views?
i-579237035760c3c2-730	Mr President, I would like to There are concerns and criticisms about this project, and I think everyone is aware of that. Of course, those fears and criticisms should be taken very seriously, and that is what I was also trying to express in my previous reply that the Finnish Transport Administration is in close contact with the operators concerned. It also has a very high ambition to ensure that it will work significantly better from the start at the next take-up route than it has in previous projects. I assume the Finnish Transport Administration will take that responsibility. The Finnish Transport Agency is the authority responsible for this. On the other hand, I find it difficult to see how uncertainty about whether this will be implemented or not will be reduced by the fact that we are now beginning to talk about postponing this and possibly doing it differently. We have European legislation, and I assume that the government and the Liberals agree that this legislation should be complied with. We work closely with other countries on implementation to ensure that we get the best possible implementation. I find it difficult to understand how uncertainty about this would be reduced by the fact that we are now beginning to question timetables and other things. I think it is wise to continue this because we have far too many signalling errors in the Swedish rail system today. This is something that cannot be feared to happen with a new signalling system, but this is something that we experience every day in the railways today. We need a new and modern signalling system with higher operational reliability than in the current system. I also hope that we agree on this. Then, of course, we will do this in close cooperation with other actors, just as I have already said, and in close cooperation with other countries, which is also being done. I hope that we can agree that this is something that is necessary for the future and that we will try to keep the timetable so that this is implemented as quickly as possible for the benefit of future rail passengers and the attractiveness of the train throughout Europe.
i-579237035760c3c2-735	Mr President, I would like to Then I take the opportunity to make a few contributions in the debate as to what I feel there are for uncertainties regarding implementation. A contribution is about the issue of technical solutions. Will these systems be redeemed with a supplier? Another question has been why there is no more work on standardisation and an open standard. Now there are about 50 different dialects that these systems speak in the EU. Will it make traffic easier? What about all other obstacles affecting cross-border traffic that have nothing to do with the signalling system? That is another factor.
i-579237035760c3c2-738	Breaking new ground? If you break completely new ground – you constantly make adjustments to the system for each section that you work on – there is a great risk of major delays. How do you ensure that these delays will not happen? A further issue is the supply of skills and the lack of competence within these systems in the case of projectors, inspectors and operators. How does the government work on that question? Finally, Mr President, I wonder how the views of the actors are taken into account in concrete terms. It's one thing to listen and another thing to handle the information you get. I still think that consideration should be given to the possibility of postponing the project if it will not be safe and not operate by more than seeing that the system meets the quality requirements set. Otherwise, Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the debates throughout this week and to wish the Minister for Infrastructure, Chambers and Presidents a really happy Christmas.
i-579237035760c3c2-743	Mr President, I would like to I almost assume that Nina Lundström does not expect answers to all the questions – I think it was 25 questions or something – that were asked in the last speech, but we can simply have a new interpellation debate or perhaps a seminar in Parliament about the introduction, what measures the Finnish Transport Agency has taken and how to make concrete use of views. Of course, it is very important to do so in the further process and to ensure that this system has sufficient quality to cause as little interference as possible so that we have a reliable and attractive railway. That is the government's and, I believe, the Liberals' goal. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your Christmas greeting and to wish Nina Lundström and the Presidium a Merry Christmas.
i-579237035760c3c2-746	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup has asked me what measures I intend to take to counter the negative effects of planned reductions in the speed of our railways and when I consider that the Swedish rail system will be EU certified and non-contact lines fixed. Finally, Emma Wallrup has asked me whether I believe that Sweden is living up to the EU's demands today when it comes to the deadline for the evacuation of a stranded train. The railway has a large and important role in the Swedish transport system. Well-functioning rail transport services are important in order to achieve several of the government's objectives of increased employment, basic accessibility, an increased share of qualified industrial production and reduced climate and environmental impact. Since its accession in 2014, the Government has seen it as important to strengthen and streamline maintenance in order to reduce traffic disruptions and other problems that cause unnecessary costs to society and industry, as well as to increase rail competitiveness. Against this background, the government is now investing in a strongly reinforced railway maintenance. This involved SEK 620 million in 2015 and amounts to SEK 1.3 billion per year during the period 2016– 2018. The Government also proposes a further substantial increase in maintenance in the infrastructure bill submitted to Parliament, where railway maintenance is proposed to increase by 47 per cent. Swedish railways are largely regulated by EU regulations. The overall aim is to enable European railways to provide safe and uninterrupted rail services while meeting technical requirements to promote cross-border traffic. It is not only the railways themselves, but also the vehicles that run on them that are subject to the regulatory requirements. Sweden, like the other EU Member States, must therefore take action in the parts of the railway plant covered by the regulations and ensure compliance with the requirements. Measures include, inter alia, overhead contact lines. The contact lines that exist in Sweden are very similar contact lines in other European countries and meet both EU and international standards. As the government now increases funding for railway maintenance, it also means that the maintenance of overhead lines and other parts of the railway facility can be increased. When the Swedish rail system in all its parts can be adapted to the EU regulatory framework, it is not possible to respond. However, in the case of replacement and maintenance of the installation, it shall be adapted to the new technical requirements. The rate of exchange depends on how much funds the parliament and government allocates, as well as on how other track managers than the state act. At times when heavy traffic disruptions occur and trains become standing on the line, it may be necessary to evacuate passengers if the time for remedying the defect is deemed to be long. It is, of course, important that this can be done effectively and safely. The Finnish Transport Agency must ensure that passengers can be evacuated within two hours of the train operator's request. In metropolitan areas this can be done even faster. In most cases, evacuations work well even if they cause trouble to travellers. However, situations may arise where the circumstances mean that a safe evacuation cannot be carried out. Measures must then be taken first in order to ensure safety. This may lead to a long waiting period for evacuation in some cases. The Finnish Transport Agency and the railway undertakings are doing a joint improvement work in order to be able to carry out as fast and smooth evacuations as possible.
i-579237035760c3c2-753	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's railways are of great importance in our elongated country, and the investments in the railways are important for the climate change. We in the Left Party are very pleased that the government and the Left Party have now added increased funds to railway maintenance in the budget, but there are still major and urgent deficiencies. In addition to discussing how we can regain maintenance under the overall control and responsibility of the state, we need to find ways to overcome the major problems that exist as soon as possible and to study more closely what they are due to. There will now be reduced speeds on many of our Swedish railways due to deficiencies in maintenance. This is serious for those commuting, and it becomes costly for society. It is positive that in the infrastructure bill we now have an assignment to Trafikverket to work with maintenance plans. But the reduction in speed and lack of maintenance is due to the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration has not planned this properly. Today, only 25% of the money goes to maintenance for the maintenance itself. 20% disappear in administration at Trafikverket, 20% disappear in profit and administration at maintenance companies, and 40% disappear because maintenance workers are waiting to get out of the way because Trafikverket does not plan this well so that the executive company can in turn plan its operations for maintenance work. Here I would like to ask a further question, in addition to the one in the interpellation: Will Anna Johansson better monitor these maintenance plans in order to get to grips with maintenance more quickly and also look at Trafikverket's foresight regarding scheduling of maintenance work in order to get to the 40% that disappears? The Minister for Infrastructure answers me that we have contact lines similar to those in the rest of Europe. However, according to the institution responsible for certifying contact lines in Europe, this is not true. The Swedish Transport Agency has tried to certify the contact lines we have in Sweden, but it is not the same system. Nor is it the same system to prevent contact lines falling down on the ground, which makes it more difficult to evacuate in the event of problems with the contact lines. Here we have eyes on ourselves from Europe. We do not use the same system, and therefore there can be no certification either. I think this is serious. We must have a reliable system, and if Europe now has a good certification, the Finnish Transport Agency should work accordingly. But there has been neither the will, interest nor knowledge of the Swedish Transport Administration to follow this up carefully. I would therefore ask the Minister once again whether she would like to look more closely and more closely at this in order to actually take action.
i-579237035760c3c2-762	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I think it is always good to check data. I certainly do not recognise the description that Emma Wallrup gives, and indeed the Finnish Transport Administration and other expert authorities do not. For example, the type of contact line requested is not known to the experts working on these issues. When a contact line falls down, it is important that it lands on the ground so that it is grounded. It is of the utmost importance that you do not have overhead contact lines that hang in the air and could thus have contact with, for example, trains or passengers to be evacuated. Nor do I know where the indication of the percentages mentioned in the supplementary question comes from. But I can note that something that the Swedish Transport Administration is working on right now is to get more efficient propulsion of maintenance measures. This may mean, for example, that instead of rather short maintenance windows, where you will quickly get in place with large machines and a lot of people and then leave the place again and keep on so back and forth, have now been working more and more with a little larger shutdowns with more jobs gathered. This will increase the efficiency of the work done, as both machinery and human resources can be used more efficiently. It is an example of how to work. It is also the case that some of the speed reductions and travel time extensions that will now take place are partly due to the fact that we have added more money to maintenance. You need to remove certain traffic to ensure that you have sufficient capacity for the traffic to go. Also, it may not be possible to drive at full speed all routes, since the track needs access to carry out maintenance work. This is long-term work, and I do not think you need to be an expert in this area to realise that with as many miles of track as we have in Sweden and with the fairly extensive problems in the railway plant there is no quick fix. It is not enough for the government to have allocated considerably more money for maintenance in two years now. This will take time, and therefore it is also important to make the very long-term and ambitious effort made by the government in the infrastructure bill so that we can ensure that we can increase the funds for maintenance over time and also do so in a planned way. The Finnish Transport Agency should get away from putting a fairly large proportion of the means of maintenance on remedial maintenance, i.e. when something has already broken down and you are going to fix, and instead get a system of planned maintenance, where you change in good order and with good forward planning at the pace required by the system. We're heading that way, but it's going to get a little worse before it can get better. Maintenance measures require sometimes lowering speeds, increasing travel times and turning off lanes. The aim is clear: We will have a well-functioning, attractive and reliable railway in Sweden.
i-579237035760c3c2-770	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. But there is one question to which I have not been given an answer. Several actors who are good at maintenance and have worked for a long time as consultants in various concrete contexts related to maintenance of the railway have talked about the advance at Trafikverket. Information will be too late about what times there will be room in the track. There's something here that can be tightened. The figures I have received from Corshammar, as the Government is well aware, clearly show that 40% are lost in working hours due to the lack of early information. There could be more efficiency. Here it is possible to tighten and access the problem. That way we can get more out of the money, which we all want. Overall, the competence of the Finnish Transport Administration needs to be strengthened. There has been a culture in the neo-liberal era that unfortunately persists. Although many people do not want to admit that they think ideology is good, there has been a way of thinking that you do not need to have knowledge but that you should learn quickly. This applies to both managers and employees. This is also how the railway maintenance business has been organised. Knowledge has been released that has been found among other things in the railway company that takes care of the workshops and takes care of the locomotives. Many who work there point to the lack of knowledge. This also applies to Trafikverket's own knowledge of the railways. It has also been pointed out that around 200 to 250 engineers would be needed to manage the entire plant in Sweden. Those who have more knowledge of the railways stress that it is about that many engineers, and today there are 80. It is a thinking that has existed throughout society, namely to reduce and cut down on precisely knowledge-based pieces and instead introduce customer benefits and a host of values. When scraping the surface, there is very little knowledge content. Then there will be shortcomings in the quality of public service. We have seen this happen in the railways, and we need to steer things up there. A new spirit of society is needed where we emphasise quality and knowledge with long continuity so that people with a lot of knowledge are not moved around in different positions. They shall be able to use the knowledge they possess in the positions they hold. This obviously also applies to engineering training for railway engineers. That's where the cheapest consultants are hired. Then there will be less knowledge content in the education itself. It is also not the same people who teach and then correct tests. This means that a lot of knowledge about the railway is lost. I would like to highlight this issue to the Government so that she can follow up. If we are to have a working railway, it is important that we look at how we can benefit the function itself and not just think in crowns and crowns. I would like to ask another question about the evacuation of trains. There is a regulatory framework in Europe that says that a stranded train will be evacuated within 60 minutes. Why do we allow it to take two hours in Sweden? It's really strange.
i-579237035760c3c2-780	Mr President, I would like to I'll start from the end. I note that none of the experts I have consulted in the context of this interpellation debate are aware of any regulatory framework in the EU that requires evacuation time. It is possible that such a framework exists, but it is unknown in that case. It would also have been completely unreasonable to have such a rule, given that evacuation must take place in the first place in a safe manner. If you are in inaccessible terrain or in a otherwise dangerous environment, or if there is an unearthed contact line in the way, you should of course not acuerate. Then you have to wait until you can do it safely. It should be possible for those on the train to safely get from the train to another safe pla ts. It's hard to answer the other parts because it's a matter of sweeping, a little anecdotal formulations– someone said and someone thought. However, we can agree on one thing, namely that there are major problems in the Swedish rail system. A challenge has been that for a long time little money has been allocated to railway maintenance. Let's get this right. Rail traffic has also increased sharply in ten years, while the means of maintenance have not followed. Emma Wallrup is well aware that Trafikverket has been commissioned to take over the inspection activities in order to achieve better knowledge of the facility and make more efficient maintenance plans. Much of what is being asked for is under way. There are many self-appointed experts in this area, and I think it is good to build both questions and, above all, answers and actions on the facts. It is lacking in some contexts. It is important that we be careful that the measures we take are based on the correct facts.
i-579237035760c3c2-785	Mr President, I would like to It may sound like sweeping formulations, but what I'm talking about is that a system error has existed in the last few years in society. We do not respect knowledge in a way that we have done in the past. Instead, we use superficial values when measuring things – unfortunately in many areas of society. It's a huge problem. We need to regain the knowledge. Many people point out that there has been a lack of knowledge about the railways at Trafikverket for a long time. The people who work in the businesses do not have the training and knowledge needed to maintain a high quality. I want to highlight the actual recruitment to Trafikverket and how the knowledge that existed before is built up. We need to access the knowledge if we are to get more for the money we spend on railway maintenance. We in the Left Party are pleased that much more money is spent on railway maintenance than before, which we have fought for. We are pleased that we have heard and have been able to meet on this issue. But we also know that that money is not really enough. 10 billion a year may be enough to keep the tracks that are most used in order, but to access the entire railway network, according to the Swedish Transport Administration, 13 billion a year would be needed. Now there are many who work in the industry who say that it is possible to get more out of the money if we work more efficiently. One example is that the Swedish Transport Administration is out in better time when companies should be informed about when they can get out in the tracks. There is a lot of working time lost in not having this information. I have spoken with people at SJ and with people who work in maintenance on the railway, and they all say the same thing. It is a tangible issue that can be addressed.
i-579237035760c3c2-789	Mr President, I would like to There is room for improvement measures. However, they should be based on relevant and accurate facts, not on general allegations of lack of knowledge. I do not know, nor do I think that Emma Wallrup is aware of, that the Swedish Transport Administration would now set lower skill requirements than before. Someone thinks so, and you might think so, but let us be content to note that it is important that there is a high level of competence in the authorities that have to deal with our important facilities. It is about high competence in purchasing, making the right orders, planning and ensuring efficient operation. I know that the work is going on with high intensity in the Swedish Transport Administration, and there is no other ambition there. I think we have a lot to gain from increasing the funds available in this area, and we are doing so now. It is a prerequisite for the efficient use of the money – that you have enough money to catch up with the work as well. With the additions made to the infrastructure bill voted by Parliament this week, there are funds available because there are also track charges used for the same purpose, so the total framework available for maintenance will correspond to what the Finnish Transport Agency has described is needed to ensure that we keep the existing railway, the entire facility, in good condition. With that, I wish Emma Wallrup a Merry Christmas!
i-579237035760c3c2-794	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me about the government and I will ensure that the Varberg tunnel is built, whether it is the government's and my intention to start construction by 2019, whether the government and I will ensure that there is no need for additional funding from Varberg municipality and whether, in my opinion, there is a risk that the Varberg tunnel project will be replaced by the expensive high-speed drive. Ola Johansson has asked me what measures I intend to take to give priority to the dual track through Varberg in the national plan and if I have any information to Varberg and other west coast municipalities about what they themselves can take to contribute to it. I have chosen to answer the questions in a joint answer. The national traffic cross-border plan for the development of the transport system for the period 2014-2025, as decided by the then government in April 2014, contains the object Varberg, double track (tunnel) including the travel centre. The object was then included in the Government's latest decision on which projects may be prepared for construction within four to six years, i.e. 2018 – 2020, which was taken in December 2014. The choice of tunnel solution has been preceded by many years of work and several investigations. The construction of the tunnel will develop a rapid, efficient and environmentally friendly means of transport for passenger and freight traffic throughout the West Coast Line. The project has been tested for admissibility, and the current government decided in March 2013 to grant admissibility for the project. The Swedish Transport Administration is now working on developing a railway plan for the project. At this stage in the investment project, the municipalities concerned, in this case Varberg, can contribute to the progress of the project by participating in the planning work and ensuring that the municipality's work on any changes to detailed plans is in line with the work of the Finnish Transport Administration. In May this year, the Finnish Transport Administration informed the Government that the cost forecast for the object has increased significantly. The Authority stated that this is mainly due to climate adjustments and changes in the construction of the mountain tunnel. It has also emerged that the contaminated masses in the railway area which have to be taken care of are much more extensive than previously known, causing significant cost increases. It is important that Trafikverket works to ensure that selected solutions are implemented in a socio-economic and cost-effective way. This may mean that the Finnish Transport Administration reviews several possible cost-saving measures for objects in the current plan where the estimated costs of the object have increased. The Government has decided that this object is part of a national plan on the basis that most of the object is financed by state funds. The question of possible additional funding from the Municipality of Varberg or the other parties other than those agreed between the parties is not a matter for the Government but for the Finnish Transport Administration. On 11 October 2016, the Government presented the proposal Infrastructure for the future – Innovative solutions for strengthening competitiveness and sustainable development, with proposals for financial frameworks and orientations for the period 2018–2029, to the Riksdag. Following the Riksdag's decision on the bill, work continues on action plans, which will lead to a new national traffic cross-border plan for the development of the transport system 2018 – 2029. The action plan identifies the items to be prioritised. The Government intends to instruct the Finnish Transport Administration to submit proposals for the next national plan. The Government then intends to establish the plan in spring 2018. The current national cross-border plan for the development of the transport system covers the period 2014-2025. It applies, of course, until something else has been decided. I cannot anticipate future decisions but at the same time note that most objects usually remain when a new plan is decided.
i-579237035760c3c2-801	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I may think it was a well-thought-out answer, although I get the feeling that the Minister is pushing the question a little away and a little bit on the future. She refers to Trafikverket and to the future. This is anything but the future, you see if you look back. The Varberg tunnel has been under discussion for 25 years as regards the West Coast Line's tunnel route under Varberg. As mentioned, the alliance government decided on this during its time in government. It was tested for admissibility and entered into the national plan. There is also an agreement between Trafikverket, Region Halland, Varberg Municipality and Jernhusen on part-financing from the three latter parties. The Finnish Transport Agency has its national funding. So there are single tracks in Varberg. It is one of the sections of the West Coast Line where there are still single tracks. It is clear that this is a major challenge in terms of capacity, and that is the issue that we have to resolve in some way. It is a challenge not only for Varberg municipality but for the entire West Coast Line. The faster the double tracks come into place, the faster the capacity becomes better. This is important for both individuals and companies. This applies, of course, to commuting, as Varberg municipality has a fairly large proportion of people commuting both from and to Varberg. That is why this is important, but it is also important for the supply of goods. We have a port in Varberg, from which large quantities of sawn timber come out. From that perspective, too, it is important. commuting is also a competence issue. Skills provision is one of the issues that businesses often highlight as an obstacle to growth, and by strengthening the labour market region with good infrastructure, the problem of skills supply can be solved. We need in Sweden as a whole a railway that works here and now, and this is an area where we could increase capacity quite a bit. That is why we in the Moderates say no to high-speed rail in Sweden. Here I would ask the Minister to be a little clearer in the next round of debate. Can the Minister state clearly that expensive high-speed rails will not push away an object such as the Varberg tunnel, which already exists in the national plan, and what will the Minister do to ensure that the double-track tunnel pull through Varberg remains in the new national plan that the government will eventually decide on?
i-SsdoUd1mB3XUTmzGr34uW2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Anna Johansson, for your answer! Ever since I was a rebellious teenager and a youth politician, I've been arguing for the double-track. It went so far back then that the Center Party Youth League, to which I belonged, preferred to see the double track realized than that E6 became a highway all the way to Gothenburg. I am sure that if the double track had been built first, if we had started at the right end, we would have had both a rail line without bottlenecks and the motorway. The commuter train has increased sharply, not least in the northern part of Halland from which I come. That development could have come earlier. The need for appropriate stations and travel centres with more train stops along the road through Halland is acute. Interference-free traffic with more departures is also high on Halland's train commuter's wish list. There is one thing you can learn from the highway: There is no point in building a road of high standard if it is not done along the entire route. Semi-finished work is unmade work. This also applies to the West Coast Line. When the Hallandsås tunnel has finally been completed, a double track between Helsingborg and Ängelholm must be completed and the tunnel to a new station in Varberg must be completed in the manner determined in consultation with Region Halland, Varberg Municipality, Jernhusen and Trafikverket. I think the Government itself has stood on the platform in Varberg and heard the pling from the booms going down, waiting for the Öresund train to enter along the single track south. It is a disgrace that this is still the case! According to the Government's response, it is still her assessment that Varberg is included in the projects that can be started before 2020, even if the cost picture changes in the way the Finnish Transport Agency has warned; it has talked about costs of approximately SEK 1 billion. She bases this on previous experience of how it usually is. The answer given to Jörgen Warborn and I can also say that the Swedish Transport Administration will review various cost-saving measures. They can do that, but only as long as it does not affect the accessibility of the travel centre with more incoming tracks and a connection with a turn-around track through the tunnel for the Vårdlsbanan, which runs between Varberg and Borås. I can tell you that I visited Varberg harbour just two weeks ago, together with Anders Åkesson, the Transport Policy Spokesperson of the Center Party, who would also have been here. After talking to Trafikverket, we understood that there is uncertainty about how the urban development project and the move of the port may be affected if the tunnel is delayed or perhaps even not built. It is possible, but not desirable, that Varberg together with Trafikverket can perform more co-financing and change the model, but there is hardly any point in starting such a process if it does not affect the outcome. That is why, Mr President, the Minister's answer to this question today is important, and it is also important that it is not misinterpretable. Therefore, I ask you, Anna Johansson, again: Can you promise that the double track through Varberg will continue to be part of the national plan 2018– 2029?
i-579237035760c3c2-821	Mr President, I would like to I have been asked similar questions about many different objects, and my answer has been the same every time. My ambition and our ambition is not to make substantial changes to the current national plan, but the starting point is that the table is short. But, of course, it must also be possible to review whether the conditions have changed substantially since the decision on the current plan was taken in 2014. However, the starting point is that what is contained in the current national plan should remain. It is problematic when a project is so much more expensive than there are funds allocated in the form of grants. This means that there is a risk of crowding out other objects, which are also named and financed in the current plan. Therefore, it is important that the Swedish Transport Administration, together with other stakeholders, continue to work to ensure that this can proceed well, without, of course, jeopardising other measures. This brings me to the clarification of the answer to the question whether the extension of the high-speed rail network could be detrimental to the tunnel. The answer to that question is no. We have been very clear that high-speed runway development is important to ensure high accessibility, increased benefits and strengthened capacity in the rail system in Sweden. However, we have been equally clear that this must be done in such a way that we also take into account other needs in the infrastructure system across our country. It should therefore be done in a way that is socially sound, and at the rate that the economy allows. Every time you choose to take action you choose something else, in some sense, in a world of finite resources. But trying to link the upswing of the Varberg tunnel and the difficulties in keeping the timetable to the high-speed railway expansion is surely going a little far, to put it cautiously.
i-579237035760c3c2-825	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to raise the issue of housing here. As Ola Johansson mentioned, an urban development project is also linked to this, at least from Varberg's perspective. In connection with the construction of the tunnel, a port must also be moved or surface efficient. Large land will then be released, and there will be great opportunities to build a completely new, sustainable neighbourhood. There, quite a few homes will be able to be built, and Varberg really needs it. Varberg is a municipality of growth; a reasonable number of people move in. This gives an opportunity to build more homes – I see that there are more people in this room who are involved in this issue. There is basically an agreement between Varb erg Municipality, Reg ion Halland, Jernhusen and Trafikverket, and I thought the Minister's response in this round was somewhat clearer in relation to that agreement. The agreement includes a timetable and I would like to hear the Government comment on it. Is there any indication today that the timetable could be altered in any way? I understand that the detailed planning work is in progress – Varberg Municipality is well in line with that. There is therefore nothing that could be an obstacle. Things can happen in large infrastructure projects, but I would still like to have a comment on that. I also thought it was very good that the Minister was clear that the Varberg tunnel will not therefore be moved out of the national plan in favour of high-speed projects. The Minister also mentioned in his reply that it is very rare for projects to be removed from the plan. Is there anything that could lead to this happening, or can the Minister really reassure people in Varberg's municipality on this issue?
i-579237035760c3c2-831	Mr President, I would like to I believe, like Minister Johansson, that it is important not to confuse the issue of high-speed trains with the West Coast Line in the way that is done. If the Swedish negotiations lead to the construction of high-speed lines, which is expected to lead to new housing in other locations, with faster train communications becoming an environmentally friendly alternative to aviation, it is something the Center Party welcomes. However, it requires that such a project can be financed and also benefit economically from continued good growth in Sweden, with stable public finances and a functioning job policy with low corporate taxes, so that the cost of it does not exceed what is socio-economically justifiable. If the high-speed track is built, the main roads and the east – western connections in Halland need to work. Then Varberg and Halmstad C are also important. But let us leave Varberg and Halland for a moment! I mentioned in my interpellation the Nordic triangle between the capitals Copenhagen, Oslo and Stockholm, which also extends all the way to eastern Finland. The EU Commission has a number of sub-projects, small and large. Some are ready or under construction, and some are at the planning stage. This is very typical of the Western Swedish package, which I have also followed as a municipal politician in the Minister's neighbouring municipality of Kungsbacka. For Halland, it is very important that the package, which was created while Åsa Torstensson and the Center Party were responsible for the infrastructure, is implemented in its entirety, also as part of the major European project: the TEN-T track and the Nordic triangle. Halland and the double track through Halland are an important part of the construction of the West Link so that bottlenecks, which have previously weakened West Sweden, disappear. All these projects have a long-term objective and there is broad agreement that they must be implemented. For many it will mean inconvenience in the short term, but quite soon, as Jörgen Warborn was also aware, the values will be realized in the form of more housing, with Varberg's city being able to meet the sea. We will increase accessibility for another mode of transport, the shipping, where the ports of Halmstad and Varberg complement each other. In Varberg, which Jörgen was also on, part of the Swedish forest is shipped out – one of our basic industries. We also have a ferry service to Denmark. There may be a lot of rallies and Varbergs who are listening and who will read about this in the newspapers tomorrow. I feel a little less worried after this discussion, but I had hoped for a little clearer news from Anna Johansson. Will she work for the Varberg Tunnel to start before 2020, and can she promise that it will remain in the national plan for 2018 – 2029?
i-579237035760c3c2-838	Mr President, I would like to Of course, one should not be unnecessarily formalistic. On these very issues, however, I have tried to take exactly the same line. Our ambition is not to make major adjustments to the current national plan. However, the decisions to be taken in 2018 should not be pre-emptive. I will not give any concrete or unambiguous information about any objects before then. That is why I agree with that position in this case as well. A project such as the Varberg Tunnel is clearly in line with the government's priorities in the infrastructure bill, where we stress the importance of expanding the capacity of the rail system, emphasising the link between increased housing construction and improved infrastructure, focusing on the fact that the railway becomes more punctual and that we have shorter travel times and so on. From a fundamental point of view, it is obvious that the Varberg tunnel belongs to those objects that are important and well in line with government policy. Then it's troubling. The fact that the Varberg tunnel is coming up here at all is not about any other political assessment of the need for the tunnel. The problem is that there have been significant increases in relation to the agreement mentioned in the discussion and in relation to the funds allocated to the current national plan. I assume that the parties involved in this are now working on finding a good solution. I assume that we are also prepared to take the necessary measures to reduce costs and find good financing solutions, as far as they are required. I'm not prepared to make any promises here and now. Now Trafikverket, who has the assignment, and other stakeholders in the project, has to do their job. We may then come back to a political discussion if necessary later.
i-579237035760c3c2-842	Mr President, I would like to The debate on the Varberg tunnel is about infrastructure, but it is really about people's travel, commuting and the provision of skills for companies. They are about housing and climate benefits. There is an opportunity to solve a lot of major challenges. Some of the challenges can be solved through this project. In the end, it was a good answer. I take it that the Minister has a position not to be too clear before decisions are taken, and I can respect that. However, I take it that it seems clear that this project will remain in the national plan. The only thing it possibly depends on is the cost issue. That's where Trafikverket works. My final question may be: What can the Government do to put pressure on this issue or to facilitate that work? Is there anything the minister can do there? It would be good to have an answer to that. I would like to conclude by wishing the President, the Government and the Chamber Office a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-579237035760c3c2-845	Mr President, I would like to Then I can go to where Jörgen Warborn closed and wish the two ministers present Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, as well as the President, the Registry and the other Members present. I interpret the debate here as not likely to make any adjustments to the plan for 2018 – 2029. The assessment made by the Government is that the project can be carried out on time, but she does not want to give any firm answers for formal reasons. I have also had to make it clear that there is no contradiction between the construction of the tunnel and the dual track in Varberg and the plans to carry out, if the economy allows, an investment in high-speed trains. It is also an important clarification. So there is no displacement effect there. I am pleased that we had time to get this message before Christmas, so that we do not have to worry about this during the Christmas holidays. I also believe that the interpretation at home in Halland is that there is a good chance that the project will be implemented. The benefits of a double track and full implementation of the Western Swedish package are significant, not only in Halland. We can only regret the cost. I'm sure there's a good reason for them. Some are climate-related, and we are all doing what we can to reduce climate impact in the future. However, the effects that have already been caused cannot do much more than try to limit the damage. It is not desirable to delay or impair the implementation of the Varberg project. Nor is it desirable or likely that there will be any evasive effects of the same. With this I say: Thank you for the answer, Anna Johansson!
i-579237035760c3c2-851	Mr President, I would like to I, for my part, naturally hope that Trafikverket, Varberg Municipality and other stakeholders will find good solutions that allow the project to be implemented as planned and that ways to achieve cost reductions can be found, or that good ways can be found to allocate the additional costs in the project. There is no ambition on the part of the government to question the project as such. On the other hand, the increase in costs is problematic. Nevertheless, I would like to have said this at the end of this discussion. I thank Members for the questions and wish you both and everyone else present in the Chamber a really happy Christmas and eventually a happy new year.
i-579237035760c3c2-853	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson has asked how I and the government intend to face the consequences of another two years delay in a functioning mobile broadband network for people, businesses and businesses throughout the country, as the government decision of 31 October gives rise to. There is a need for frequencies for better mobile coverage and broadband access in all parts of Sweden. The use of mobile broadband is increasing. In rural areas, there is an extra need because there is often no fixed broadband with high capacity. At the same time, particularly in the light of developments in security policy, it is increasingly necessary for public order, safety, health and defence actors to be able to communicate and exchange information effectively and safely with each other. The 700-megahertz band is useful both for the aforementioned operators and for operators who set up mobile networks for rural coverage. The Government's ambition is to create the conditions for the earliest possible allocation of the current frequencies. The Government's view is that the need for mobile coverage and broadband access in all parts of Sweden as well as the need for an effective and secure communication solution for public order, security, health and defence actors should be reconciled, and both issues have high priority. Telephone and broadband, both fixed and mobile, have and will play a major role in rural areas, not least with the new 5G technology. In the future, bands other than the 700-megahertz band will also be used for 5G. Several such links are discussed in the context of international harmonisation. In the long term, bands currently used for mobile telephony and broadband with current technology will also be able to be used for 5G. The Government is taking several measures to promote the development of broadband and broadband services. In mid-November, PTS, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, in cooperation with Region Västerbotten and Vilhelmina Municipality, organised a workshop with broad participation of various actors, including representatives of the Ministry of Industry, with the aim of identifying solutions for building fixed, mobile or other wireless broadband that can allow transmission speeds of at least 30 megabits per second. In the 2017 budget proposal, the Government has estimated an additional SEK 850 million under the rural development programme for broadband deployment in rural areas. In addition, through a redeployment within the rural development programme, SEK 150 million will be invested in the expansion of broadband in rural areas. This means that the existing broadband support has increased from SEK 3.25 billion to SEK 4.25 billion with our budget. The investments shall be made in areas where there is no commercial broadband deployment. In addition, the government has made broadband investments of 1.2 billion possible under the three northern regional fund programmes. The efforts of the rural development programme and the regional fund programmes shall complement and reinforce each other. I will also shortly be presenting the government's new broadband strategy. Sweden will thus continue to be a country with one of the world's best IT communications infrastructures.
i-579237035760c3c2-860	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for your answer! Not being connected and missing the internet and telephony are already, and will be, even more so, a purely physical obstacle to people's participation in work, education, social activities, government contacts, health care – well, soon to say the rest of their lives. I feel that the government has now fumbled away two three years when it comes to the roll-out of mobile broadband throughout the country. This risks leading to an increase in regional fragmentation of our country. What, then, is what I call the government's fummel with the broadband issue? Well, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, which is the authority responsible for this, announced in July 2016 that an auction for mobile broadband would start on December 1st this year. The preparation work had been going on for several years. In the auction documentation it was very clear that the availability of the 700-megahertz band for commercial services would also be compatible with the needs expressed by the blue light authorities. The hopes for the auction were very great. The day before the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency would register interest for the auction, 31 October, the Government announces that they intend to postpone the entire process by two years. The government also commissioned MSB to further investigate the 700-megahertz band, despite the fact that it was already included in the pre-study that PTS had previously carried out. To a written question from me, Peter Eriksson replied as late as 27 September that mobile coverage and broadband access for public needs should be compatible with the needs of public order, safety, health and defence of communication. In a month or so something has happened that makes Peter Eriksson and the government come to the conclusion that they should put the whole roll-out of the extremely important 700 band in a long bench for the country. The consequences of two more three years of waiting for well-functioning mobile telecommunications and data communications across the country will be very difficult for people, businesses and social organisations. Of course, Telia and Skanova announced the cutting of the copper grid around the country is exacerbating the situation. My question to Peter Eriksson in the run-up to today's debate was therefore: in what way do the Government intend to face the consequences of two more three years' delay in a well-functioning mobile broadband network for people, businesses and businesses throughout the country, as the government decision of 31 October has given rise to? I thank you for the answer we have received. But there is, of course, a great deal to be desired, which we can certainly develop in this discussion. Workshops in Västerbotten are very important to find the methods. But what does the Government do more concretely, for example in dialogue with Telia and Skanova, to get them to pause the dismantling of the fixed telecommunications network? It is good that the government invests more money and thus meets the investment in the Center Party's budget exercise on a broadband billion. But on what basis does the Government argue that we should have one of the world's best IT communications infrastructures when we have chosen to pause the whole process for two to three years?
i-579237035760c3c2-871	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Anders Åkesson that I have not paused this issue. We work in several different ways to make sure to get a good, functioning, stable and secure mobile broadband and also fixed fibre to as many people as possible in rural areas. That is one of my absolute most high-priority issues at all. In the interpellation from Åkesson it was said that this could be delayed for two years. In the speech now it was two to three years. My intention is that it will be considerably faster than two years to launch the new auction. I hope that it will be able to come about already in 2017, as quickly as possible. It is possible to reconcile the interests of the blue light authorities and those of the countryside. Of course, not everyone can have everything, but it must be possible to work together. No one from the bluelight authorities has demanded that they have access to the entire band at all times, but it is about parts of it. PTS made an assessment from the outset, which it considered should be sufficient. Then the authorities from the safety policy side felt that the assessment made by PTS was not sufficient. At that point, you have to try to find a compromise that works. Now I'm waiting for the ongoing investigations to be completed. After that, we shall be able to restart this process as soon as possible.
i-579237035760c3c2-875	Mr President, I would like to I said two to three years. Three years the telecoms industry talks about rebooting, reshaping and remodulating business models. After all, the Government had spent several years preparing for the auction roll-out due to take place on 1 December this year. They were stopped indefinitely. These are new investigations. There will therefore be a whole new set of conditions. The industry itself assesses – it was partly underlined during a visit by PTS to the Transport Committee as late as yesterday – that it will take time to reformulate this on the basis of new conditions. I am deeply concerned that time will run out. I hope the Government is right: it will go faster. I didn't ask if the Government had paused its ambitions. I don't think so. In previous discussions we have found that we have very similar ambitions in this area. I asked: Has the Government, as a concrete measure to alleviate the inconvenience, called on Skanova, partly state-owned via Telia, to pause its dismantling of the fixed network? Here we end up in a situation where people in Västerbotten, Småland and other parts of the country completely become without telephony or mobile communication because the net is cut because someone thought that the 700 band would come instead. Peter Eriksson mentions in his interpellation response the next generation of mobile band, 5G, and its importance to the countryside. That's it. It will have a dramatic impact on our society as a whole in terms of transport efficiency, smart industrial processes and simpler functions in society. 5G is called the Internet of Things. But in order for this technology, for example, applied in self-driving cars, smart houses, new industrial processes and health care, to be available at all outside the country's metropolitan areas – that is, 80-90% of the country's surface – it is assumed that there is a motorway to run on. It's the 700-band. 5G is at the door, the Government, and the highway is now blocked. Does the Government feel safe?
i-579237035760c3c2-879	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I feel safe. There was a conflict between the various authorities involved. The communication and the conversation between them did not work properly, but I believe that this is about to be resolved. I know what the government's ambitions are and that it is ultimately the government that governs the authorities. On this basis, I feel confident that it will go much faster than what is feared by those who are afraid that this will be a long bench and take years. I will do everything I can to ensure that this goes much faster than that and that it lands in that we have a well-functioning 5G structure across the country and also, relatively soon, well-functioning numbers within 4G. This will give us better communications and opportunities to replace the copper network that is now being dismantled with mobile variants. The fact is that the copper grid being decommissioned is not future-proof. It does not work in the way that we would like and that we feel we normally need, both in rural and urban areas. I do not think it is a solution to try to stop the old network, which is still being replaced by mobile solutions.
i-579237035760c3c2-884	Mr President, I would like to I don't think either the government or I are putting our hopes on the copper grid. But this is a situation where some people's only communication with the outside world consists of a copper network. It notes how this is being cut down and closed down, and this is happening in a phase where it was thought that there would be a replacement. This compensation has now been curbed by a government decision, and it is uncertain for how long. Then there is a glitch that is possibly greater than the glitch in communication that seems to exist in the government's offices, which should be so easy to communicate among themselves. I mention this because the Government referred to communication problems. Two three years – hopefully shorter. I share the hope of the Government, but I am not sure whether it is really reasonable. Seen in general, this disappearance is a little bit of time, but turned into new technology and its application into society—when we talk about the rate of development of IT communication— are two three years of oceans of time. The fummel that I am concerned about, which has caused the 700-megahertz issue to slow down, leads to new technologies applied to work, education, health, entrepreneurship, culture and social contacts at risk of not benefiting the whole country. Then we split the country, regionally and socially. I hope that the Government's energy and ambition will be sufficient to minimise the gap that has arisen. May I, like previous speakers, express my thanks for the reply and wish everyone a Merry Christmas and New Year's weekend!
i-579237035760c3c2-891	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the interpellier's view that it is a crucial issue that we get good mobile communication and good fibre communication to the countryside in Sweden. It is not acceptable that we leave essential parts of Sweden's population outside the future society that we are building. More or less all services – from health care to municipalities and authorities – will in future, at least to a large extent, be online. If we are to be on decent equal terms, the whole of Sweden must be able to participate. I fully agree with that. I can promise that I will do everything I can, and I believe that we – as it stands today – are well placed to achieve that objective.
i-579237035760c3c2-894	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah has asked me four questions. The first question is whether my position is that the municipality of Gothenburg has the right to impose income ceilings for access to housing. The second question is whether my position is that other municipalities have the right to act in the same way as the Municipality of Gothenburg. The third question is whether the model that the municipality of Gothenburg wants to introduce is compatible with the Swedish negotiating system for determining rents. The fourth question is whether I am prepared to take measures to prevent social housing being introduced in Sweden without the matter having been first investigated, referred and decided in the usual order. I would like to start by clarifying what I mentioned earlier, that is to say that I believe that the concept of social housing should be used with caution, because there is no clear definition. The concept of social housing is often used without further thought to describe a social sector of the housing market. The housing market is divided into segments in many countries, with a social sector generally aimed at meeting the need for housing for households who find it difficult to obtain housing on market terms. In Sweden we have a general housing market for everyone. In contrast, the growing housing deficit in recent years for people who want to establish themselves on the housing market has led to an increasing number of municipalities helping with temporary housing solutions and social rental contracts. The answer to the first question is that we in Sweden have a system of rental payments based on collectively negotiated rentals between local parties in the rental market, which takes into account the value of the apartment's use when the rent is set. In addition, there is an exception rule in the Tenancy Act on so-called presumption rent, which in short means that the property owner and a tenant organisation can agree in a negotiation that the rent for a newly built apartment should be considered reasonable for a period of 15 years. The agreement on a presumption rent has in most cases meant a higher rent in new production but can nevertheless be applied to agree on a lower rent. If the City of Gothenburg has imposed special conditions on the ground and the parties choose to negotiate a presumed rent, it is up to the local parties to conclude such an agreement. The answer to the second question is that housing responsibility is municipal. According to law, municipalities should plan so that all residents can live in good housing and also promote the preparation and implementation of appropriate measures for housing supply. I therefore welcome any municipal initiative that leads to good housing for all, as long as this does not lead to increased segregation. I do not know exactly how the rents will be determined in the current example in the City of Gothenburg, but my answer to the third question is that I assume that the rent is related to our existing system. In answer to the last question, I would like to make it further clear that the municipalities are legally responsible for housing and that we have a housing market that is open to everyone. As a minister, I have neither the opportunity nor the will to take measures that prevent the municipalities from taking their responsibilities or to come up with their own initiatives. It would be a limitation of municipal self-government without any prior analysis and preparation.
i-579237035760c3c2-909	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Housing, for your answer. My picture is that the Minister of Housing speaks against himself in every way possible in the answer. I think that is the most unclear answer I have received during my two years here in the Swedish Parliament. In Sweden, we have a general housing market for everyone," says the Minister for Housing in his interpellation response. At the same time, the Minister for Housing says that he does not intend to act to ensure that we actually have a general housing market for everyone, but it should be placed on the responsibility of the municipalities. I have three reasons for my statement. Firstly, income ceilings are a threat to a general housing market. The Minister for Housing wants a general housing market, but leaves the door open for the municipality of Gothenburg to introduce an income ceiling for people to have access to housing. What all experts and organisations call this is a type of social housing system.
i-579237035760c3c2-914	Secondly, I believe that the Minister for Housing intends to look at the dismantling of the Swedish rent negotiation system. He defends the current system, where rents are to be negotiated collectively between the market partners, i.e. the tenant association and property owners. At the same time, it is an open door for the municipality to negotiate what it calls a presumed rent, which means that politicians go in and set special conditions. These special conditions are then income ceilings and in practice mean that housing in the free port in Gothenburg can get different rents, although they are the same, based on the fact that the person who will get the apartment is a low-income person. For me, special conditions are the housing minister's way of saying social housing. Special conditions for me are social housing. The income ceiling and the fact that you should be a low-income person in order to get the dwelling is social housing. Therefore, the Minister of Housing speaks against himself. Thirdly, the Minister for Housing also speaks against himself because he does not intend to act. In my view, it is a betrayal of democracy and the Swedish electorate to say that they do not intend to act in favour of a general housing market, even though they are in favour of a general housing market. I would like to show that the income ceiling is a strange system that allows the municipality of Gothenburg to introduce. It has not been preceded by any kind of government inquiry. No research has been produced on the whole. No proposal has been prepared for the Swedish Parliament that the municipality of Gothenburg may introduce a ceiling on income or change the Swedish negotiating system. There has also been no consultation round, despite the fact that both the tenant association and the property owners as well as eight Swedish political parties, all here in the Swedish Parliament, are against this according to official positions. Nor has it been preceded by any debate in this House on the introduction of income ceilings or the existence of certain flats for low-income earners, but we shall have a general housing market. There are no positions from the Swedish Members and not a vote here in the Swedish Parliament saying that you can have income ceilings for renting apartments. There is no decision whatsoever that we should depart from the Swedish rental negotiation system. Then I wonder: What are we really seeing? Is it a general housing market that we are building in the municipality of Gothenburg? No, for me it is a typical example of an evasive slope, that other municipalities will follow the city of Gothenburg and introduce income ceilings. For me it may be because it is the Green Party and the Social Democrats that are about to introduce social housing in Gothenburg. I find it hard to believe that the Minister for Housing is not aware of the individual case of Gothenburg, because it is incredibly well known. It has, in fact, been preceded by debates for four or five years.
i-579237035760c3c2-922	Mr President, I would like to I have answered the four questions that Robert Hannah has asked in the interpellation. I think, of course, that Gothenburg, as long as you stay within the law and the rental model that we have in Sweden, should have the opportunity to make these changes and try different models to set the rent. Personally, I'm more concerned about the income floors than the income ceilings. Today, there are many municipalities and companies, including public utilities, that impose high income requirements for access to housing. Often they require income three or four times the rent. It shuts out a large part of the population from the possibility of housing at all. It's a big worry. We have been thinking a lot about how even people who have a little smaller wallet can get housing in the future and be able to pay in a decent way. We look at everything from social assistance to systems to guarantee lower rents. We've been working on the investment aid, which Robert Hannah probably knows about, to ensure rents that are lower than they would otherwise have been. It is a method for helping more people to get a place in the housing market. Gothenburg also tries in a little different ways to help reduce segregation and make sure that more people can fit in the housing market. The attempt in Gothenburg is interesting. It is a innovative method in the Swedish system, which is otherwise quite even and square around Sweden. I think it is worth trying it before we reject it and say that it would be particularly bad. There are also a number of other models that place special demands on tenants, such as student housing and old-age housing. As I said, I am more concerned that such a high income is required to obtain housing in many parts of Sweden than that people with lower incomes should be able to get housing.
i-579237035760c3c2-929	Mr President, I would like to This is an important question posed by the Minister for Housing: how should we ensure that people with lower incomes have access to housing? It's a very difficult question, but it's worth investigating. Have we investigated the model that the City of Gothenburg now wants to introduce? No, we don't. There is no government inquiry, no research and no proposal on it, and there has not been a consultation round, but here you allow a little bit of the Wild West and let all municipalities solve the problems themselves because you do not want to solve them at parliamentary level. Should I interpret the Minister for Housing's answer as saying that the Green Party and the Social Democrats are in favour of a ceiling on income? In that case, it means a change in how you view the housing market, for then it is not general to everyone. I think the Minister for Housing should take a look at the Liberals' budget bill. We invest 4 billion more than the government does on housing allowances, which go specifically to persons with guarantee pensions and to families with multiple children. This is one way of ensuring that people with lower incomes have access to the housing market and can afford to pay their rents. It is not democratic that the City of Gothenburg should be allowed to introduce a system that violates the collective bargaining system and the general housing market, which the Minister of Housing hailed at the beginning of his speech. I think we need to roll back the tape and think about these questions. It is a serious problem that the Minister points out that some of the Swedish people find it difficult to pay their rents. But this is not the way to allow municipalities to experiment with models that are not in any way decided here in the Swedish parliament. I am incredibly willing to try different models, but I want them to be investigated by the Swedish Parliament before we deviate from collective bargaining systems. I know that eight out of eight parties here in Parliament are against this system, and even the Tenants' Association and Property Owners are against it. Does the Minister of Housing then think it is right that the social partners and the various political parties have not been allowed to take a position on this before testing it in Gothenburg? Wouldn't it be better to investigate it and have pilot municipalities? Is the Minister for Housing for testing income ceilings in Gothenburg? And does he think that there is no need for any kind of parliamentary trial, in which we really try this instead of letting municipalities drive a bit of the Wild West themselves?
i-579237035760c3c2-936	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I think it is a bit comic to hear Robert Hannah, Liberal, standing here in the Swedish Parliament talking about the Wild West and that it is not democratic. The municipalities in Sweden have a plane monopoly. They also have a housing responsibility. When a municipality then takes advantage of its opportunity to do a little differently, it is the Wild West and not democratic. I think you should stand up for local self-government. This is of great importance in Sweden. A large number of municipalities have now learned to handle the building regulations we have in a smarter and better way. This is an important background to the fact that we in Sweden are building considerably more than we have done in the past. The Gothenburg case is another example of a municipality that uses and uses its municipal autonomy. Should we instead have a strongly centralised system where the Riksdag will decide everything about how the municipalities should manage housing construction, renting and planning monopolies in Sweden? Is Robert Hannah really suggesting that we have a detailed system where everyone should do the same?
i-579237035760c3c2-941	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are in favour of a general housing market where everyone has access to housing. It was also the Green Party and the Social Democrats before I entered the Chamber. The Minister of Housing himself said in a speech that he was in favour of a general housing market. The proposal in the City of Gothenburg is not about a general housing market. That's not what the property owners and Tenants Association think. And that's not what eight out of eight parties in parliament thought before we went into this room. The municipal plan monopoly is fantastic, but it does not mean that you can go in and change the Swedish rental negotiation system that we have decided on in Sweden. This does not mean that you can go in and change the view that the Swedish housing market should be general. I don't think it's funny that I'm upset about the issue. I think that the issue should be investigated and investigated well so that there is research data before allowing different municipalities to act in different ways. I want a common housing market that is general to the country. There is hardly any country in the world that has rental systems that look different from municipality to municipality. Most countries have a rental system that applies throughout the country. It has been investigated, referred and implemented in a good way. There are social housing or social housing-like systems in many countries around the world, but no country has introduced it without having been investigated, referred and discussed in Parliament. The big problem here is that it allows different municipalities to go different ways without there being a position from the Swedish parliament. I want a clear yes or no to my questions. Is the Housing Minister for Income Ceiling or not? Is the housing minister of a general housing market or not?
i-579237035760c3c2-949	Mr President, I would like to I have no reason to tell you which of all a thousand different variants are made in Sweden that I am for and against. I am in favour of municipal self-government, which means that you can do a little different in different places as long as you follow the planning and construction rules and set the rents in accordance with the model and method we have in Sweden. Many consider it square. Among other Liberals, we usually say that we have too much regulation and square rules that control housing production, renting and all sorts of things. This is the first time I have heard that we should make decisions in the Swedish Parliament about such details in housing construction and that it is terrible that in an individual municipality we do a little differently. I have no reason to condemn the Gothenburg method. The most important thing for me is that more housing is built and municipalities comply with the law.
