i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-2	Madam President, I would like Members and listeners! Anders Åkesson has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative to quickly adapt the regulations so that the problem of drought and water scarcity can be addressed within the forthcoming bill. Furthermore, he has asked whether I am prepared to take the initiative, with state funds, to support, for example, aerial geo-studies in order to find new water reservoirs and what measures I intend to take to ensure that groundwater in the area is not adversely affected by explorations and drilling for fossil gas. Madam President, I would like I assume that Anders Åkesson, in his question, refers to the proposal on the assessment of water activities that the government is working with. It is too early, I will say, to say something about the content of the bill, but the government intends to return to Parliament. It is more important that the result of the work is of high quality than that it goes too fast. In a future climate, flows in watercourses are expected to change, both to increase and to decrease. The change varies between different parts of the country but also between different seasons. Sweden faces significant challenges when the climate changes. Climate change already affects the conditions for safe water supply. In 2013, the previous government appointed the so-called Drinking Water Investigation with the aim of identifying current and potential challenges for safe drinking water supply, both in the short and long term. The study submitted its interim report on climate change and drinking water supply last year and today, on 26 April, presents its final report. In November last year, the Government appointed an investigation to strengthen efforts to adapt to a changing climate, which will analyse, among other things, how responsibility is shared between the state, county councils, municipalities and individuals in terms of taking measures to make adjustments to a gradual change in the climate. That assignment shall be reported no later than 28 February 2017. The government is keen to look at and take advantage of the suggestions from these investigations. We note, Madam President, that the environmental quality objective of good quality groundwater is not being achieved today. The government's assessment is that further efforts need to be made to achieve that goal. Greater consideration needs to be given to groundwater in society. To have a river basin perspective in order to meet several interests is important, and as the parliamentary Environmental Objectives Committee states in its report The focus is on environmental objectives – sustainable use of soil and water. Having said that, however, I would like to emphasise that a great deal of responsibility for water supply is also at regional and local level. This is basically about long-term planning work to conserve the resources you have and to keep down consumption. In this context, I would like to mention that the three municipalities Kalmar, Borgholm and Mörbylånga have jointly decided to build a water pipeline to Öland to prevent water scarcity and ensure the availability of drinking water even in the event of prolonged drought. As regards Anders Åkesson's question of groundwater impact as a result of exploration and drilling for natural gas, the environmental code contains certain basic rules of consideration, including a precautionary principle, which applies to all activities and to all measures falling within the scope of the environmental code. The precautionary principle means that preventive measures and other precautions should be taken as soon as it is feared that a particular measure could constitute an inconvenience to human health or the environment. Sweden shall not open up for the extraction of uranium, oil or gas. I also believe that it is important that the general principles of the environmental code, including the precautionary principle, apply to all those who take measures which may cause damage or inconvenience to health or the environment. The application of the general rules of grounds in the individual case is a matter for the municipality or authority responsible for examining the case. Such a decision may also be subject to judicial review. I think it is a good order, and it should apply in the future.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-10	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The background to my interpellation is multiple. One background is that it is an ongoing test drilling, exploration, after natural gas on Öland, that the Government is surely aware of, and in south-eastern Sweden. These are the risks that even before the drought set in were present with that activity and the provocation it is to experiment with the extraction of fossil gas in a very sensitive area. Another background is that it is an ever-growing supply of fresh water. This is partly due to the fact that more households and businesses are connected to the municipal estates. And this is due to increased food production and a growing tourism industry. That's actually what you live on in southeastern Sweden. Food production and tourism are very basic industries. Then, of course, the situation becomes acute after two dry or rainy seasons. It is now said that the groundwater level can fall as much as two to four meters in 2017 if the development with little precipitation continues. This would result in an extremely strained situation on Öland and probably on the mainland. I am well aware that the mainland and Öland are now working to connect themselves to a common water supply system. It is against this background, Madam President, that the discussion has come about what current legislation looks like when it comes to dealing with a changed climate and rainfall patterns. There is another background. It is also historic. For 100 – 150 years we have actively worked to divert water to achieve more arable area and clear transport infrastructure facilities, community buildings and so on. The whole of the legislation is designed in such a way that it is okay, allowed and even backed up by state subsidies historically to lead away water, while it is strictly forbidden to delay water run-off and stifle up even at such permits as are now in force in our part of the country. After all, that is what could perhaps be part of the solution: water-depleting measures. We are not talking about soaking up the whole island, the islands or the shore. We are talking about delaying the run-off of water. When you study the current water legislation, you find that there are no exceptions whatsoever for containment measures. That is why, knowing that there was an investigation that was being carried out by Minister Romson's representative, Minister Ek about a changed water situation in a changed climate – an investigation that is reasonably followed by a bill – I wanted to draw the attention of the Government to the need for us to look at both variants, acute drought and acute wet, as this is exactly what we will notice. Against this background, I asked three questions. One was: can we adapt the regulatory framework urgently? That's where I get the answer: no, there's an investigation going on. Make sure to save water, because that's not going to happen so fast. The second question was: Can the Government consider helping the affected municipalities with state resources in order to have the financial means to carry out the geo-studies by air that are now required? The Government has not yet responded. My third question was: is the Government prepared to pause the prospects for natural gas that are now under way with a very short or immediate effect? These are an extraordinary provocation in the area.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-22	Madam President, I would like I put a written question to the Minister for the Environment this week. Part of the answer contained the fact that water scarcity is basically about saving the resources you have to keep down consumption. If the Minister has not yet been able to take note of this, I can tell you that it was perceived as a bit offensive to Öland, where these issues have been dealt with for many years. It is a landscape that has difficulty absorbing the water, and measures have been taken for many years to secure the water supply. Let me give you a little background. Mörbylånga is a smaller municipality with 14,669 inhabitants. It is a well-managed, attractive and growing municipality. As Anders Åkesson explained, there are large variations in water consumption as the island may ten times its population in the summer. It has a nutrition that is very dependent on water supply, both with food production and with other agricultural production. What is at risk if the water runs out is to take emergency measures, such as the emergency slaughter of livestock or the closure of the entire production, with hundreds of jobs being affected. Of course it's an emergency. When I spoke to the officials yesterday, it was said that the cost in the near future is more than SEK 30 million. This means that the municipality will use 1 – 1 1⁄2 tax crown to finance this. It is clear that it can be financed through the va- collective, but it is basically the same as the tax collective. No matter how you finance it, one way or another it will end up on the islanders. In my question, I wondered what can be done, and Anders Åkesson has also asked about this. Like Anders Åkesson, I lack some answers. One question I would like to address to the Minister for the Environment concerns the money available and, among other things, the Agency for the Protection and Preparedness of Society benefits in the case of various kinds of accidents. In its recent national risk and ability assessment, MSB notes that water supply in the event of water scarcity is also an area where priority needs to be strengthened. One should also think that the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister for the Environment should have these questions on their table. It is not just about floods and beach erosion, it may also be about drought. This is something that has been emphasised by the Agency for several years. There is currently legislation in place whereby funds from the authorities can be used to finance payments in the event of landslides and other natural disasters. According to the Authority today, a natural accident is so defined that drought is not an accident. But that can actually be changed by the government with a government decision, so that the interpretation can be broadened and municipalities like Mörbylånga can get help in this vulnerable situation. In the short term, it is about finding other ways of preserving the water that comes down, so that it is not filtered into groundwater. But there are also ways to financially help Mörbylånga and other municipalities by using the funds that the government has set aside. I also note that these funds have been cut back in the future budget. You can either judge that the money is needed in other ways or say that it is not used much. Against this background, the broadening of the concept is quite reasonable. I hope for a positive response on this issue.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-30	Madam President, I would like Thank you to my fellow debaters for very good points of view and very good updating of extremely important issues! In Sweden, we receive quite a lot of information about how climate change is a strain on various activities in our country, also on things that are very fundamental for the economy and welfare of different municipalities. The water situation on Öland and Gotland is particularly precarious and definitely of central social interest. I am very pleased that you are raising these issues. There are investigations that have been set up here, some of which have been part-delivered or end-delivered today. I understand that my answers, when I do not present today the changes to Parliament that are prompted by the investigations, are perceived as taking a long time. But we know the Rules of Procedure. When the government makes regulatory changes to the Riksdag, it does so in special order through proposals and letters. I intend to come back – I do not yet know in what form – in relation to these investigations. We can jointly state that we need to change the regulatory framework and also review the responsibilities of the changing climate. I share Anders Åkesson's view that our water legislation does not at all reflect the difficulties that droughts of this kind entail. It is a well-known environmental problem, where the need to ditch agricultural land stands against the functioning of wetlands in the ecosystem. There we need balance for a number of reasons. Although we are not talking in terms of floods, but rather about water retardation in order to ensure an insipation to groundwater and the conservation of water resources, this is something that we need to develop in Sweden. In countries where there are difficult problems, such methods have been successful in increasing resilience in society in the face of climate change. Because it's climate adaptation this is all about. Then I am also trying to answer a question that is the responsibility of the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, which is under Anders Ygeman's responsibility. In the run-up to this interpellation debate, I have not had any basis on what funds are available from MSB, but as far as I am aware, climate adaptation is one of the issues where they will support local investment. If more funds are needed there, we will have to look into it. I know that money is needed, and that's also something the government is working on. Pausing explorations for fossil gas and the like applies to decisions taken by authorities. There's a court case. As a minister, I cannot say here in the speaker's chair that certain processes should stop. However, I declare very clearly that the government's view is that we should not open up to the extraction of uranium, oil or gas in Sweden. With this I want to be very clear. As far as flight geo-studies are concerned, it has come to my attention that this is under the authority of SGU, which is under the Ministry of Industry. I have not been given more information in the run-up to this debate about the possibilities for them to carry out such investigations in this case as an authority.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-37	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the dialogue and one, and I understand the Council of State, for its understanding and constructive tone in the discussion, which is perhaps the most important thing. Climate change is prompting action here and now. It is not something we can see in the future, but it is here and now. In view of this, I would like to draw particular attention to the national political level, which usually talks about how to deal with large flows at other times of the year and how to ensure that cities, communities, transport infrastructure and groundwater are not flooded and destroyed. In southeastern Sweden, the same climate change maps show the diametrically opposite phenomenon – certainly large amounts of precipitation, sometimes at the wrong time of the year, but mainly a major dehydration and problems to keep the water. There is an extraordinary degree of local and regional awareness. It is not in itself a new phenomenon that this is a dry corner of the country, but now it has become very serious concerns. That is why I would like to stress the importance of either opening up to an adjustment of the current legislation on this subject and enabling delay measures to be taken without the person who does so going for a breach of the law or speeding up the proposal that exists. I would also like to emphasise that this is not incompatible with but rather a precondition for both food production and water retention. The reason why the water disappears quickly from the islands is that people have chosen to settle there, farm the land and live on what it gives. Now you need help to correct previously wise thoughts, that is, instead of getting rid of the water as quickly as possible make it stay a little longer. But it is not incompatible with but, on the contrary, a prerequisite for us to continue living in this part of the country and produce excellent food and offer people good reasons for visits, that is, the two largest industries on this island. In this, Madam President, I feel an understanding from the Government, and I expect it to be translated into action shortly. There is one issue that hangs in the air, and that is with the geo-studies. On the neighbouring island of Gotland, geo-studies have been carried out by air, and it turned out that using this technology more efficiently than until then, it was possible to find groundwater reservoirs to cope with food water, quite simply. The technology exists, and it works and is considered accurate. But, of course, it costs money. At the moment, the municipalities of Öland and the municipality of mainland Finland are putting all available resources out of the collective's treasury to cope with the emergency situation. The fact that, in addition, geo-studies by air can be seen to be overwhelming, and that is why I asked the question: Is the Government prepared to take the initiative to support similar geo-studies by air as on Gotland? Yes or no?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-45	Madam President, I would like I believe that all of us who hold these offices understand that legislation takes time. But I also believe that when the situation becomes difficult, we elected politicians are expected to be a little more fast-footed, and sometimes it is necessary to actually act. At this point, I believe that the government can do so in different ways. We do not have a Minister for the Environment, but we have a Minister for Climate and the Environment. Of course, with the resources for conversion due to the climate, I had hoped that the Minister had a little more influence over those funds, even if they were in another authority. Of course, it does not take much more than a government decision to make these funds available to perhaps the first and earliest climate change we see, i.e. not major floods, but what is about drought mainly in the eastern part of Sweden. What you write is that you have not defined natural disasters as anything more than natural accidents. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency says that they can't interpret it in any other way than that it can't be about drought. In fact, the government can do something there. As I said, we are waiting, and I also believe that local politicians understand that legislation sometimes takes time. On the other hand, I believe that local politicians, like us, expect that sometimes you have to give clear information about the direction to go, and so I hope that this is what the Minister for Climate and Environment says: that you have taken on these views and that the collective decision-making in the government means that Åsa Romson also talks to the ministers who handle other authorities. I think that this would be very easy to do very much to help a vulnerable municipality in this situation.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-50	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the clarification of these important issues. Water and a good supply of water are a prerequisite for the possibility to live, farm land, to have food production and, of course, for the tourism industry. At the same time, it is equally important, when we develop these things, to do so effectively, and I know that they have thought about and have a lot of wisdom and knowledge about, not least in south-eastern Sweden, in the region around Öland but also on Gotland. It is just as Members give a clear picture of here: there is a partially reversed situation compared to how we usually talk about climate change in general in Sweden. But Sweden is big. Climate change is ambiguous and, as Members say, drought is at least as difficult, if not in some cases even more difficult, to deal with as a temporary flood that we see in other parts of the country. I am therefore very grateful for this debate. With regard to the specific issues, such as the need to be able to carry out rapid geo-studies by air on Öland, I will take them with me to ministerial colleagues in the government. I know that it is up to the authorities in our decision-making structure, in this case at the SGU, to prioritise between the projects and areas in which efforts need to be made. But I will take that question back to the minister responsible for the SGU, who is not me, but who is in the Ministry of Enterprise. The same applies to the resources for municipalities to be able to manage climate adaptation even in case of drought. My view is that the money that the municipalities can apply for from the Swedish Civil Protection Agency for Climate Adaptation goes across the whole area of climate adaptation, whether it is drought, floods or other preventive measures. On the other hand, it is very possible that there are other means available for different types of more acute accidents and disasters that the municipalities in this case believe they should have access to but for different reasons of limitation are not allowed. Let us therefore look at that again. When it comes to resources for climate adaptation at the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, the issues that the government has gone forward with and sees a continued great need for. We need to help each other in Sweden. It cannot just be a matter for the local community where you have a lot of local knowledge and knowledge to sort out situations, but this is something that we need to help with from both the state and the region and the municipality, and that is why these responsibilities have been important. I am pleased that I have now been given a mission and an investigation to look at these issues too, because I know that not least many wise municipalities and regions have been telling the government and previous governments for many years that we need to sort out the division of responsibilities in order for this to become clearer. We are facing a major challenge of climate change adaptation, both in terms of pressures on access to water where it is scarce and in other places there will be far too much water. I would also like to thank you in particular for the input into the view of current water legislation and the difficulties of even obtaining permission to do things that are probably quite sensible when we have droughts, such as delaying water in the soil systems. Many thanks for this; I'll take it with me!
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-57	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you for a constructive talk, Minister Romson! Also, please take the opportunity to come down to south-eastern Sweden – I am absolutely convinced that, for example, the County Administrative Board can give a very factual description of the situation, and that is part of our state agency structure. I asked three questions. The first concerned the urgent adaptation of the regulatory framework from a land drainage perspective related to future or current legislation. There I note that the Government is taking the picture with it. I'm glad. Sweden is a large country, and there are many different realities. I asked the Government about the possibility of supporting the municipalities' efforts to find permanent and stable groundwater reservoirs through state funds. There I got a little more floating answer. But the government brings it into the government collective, and that's important. You can send a comparison as a good argument. Had it been the reverse, that a rain had caused the embankments or road banks to be washed away, the Swedish Transport Agency would of course have had to do what is within its mission, to quickly restore the social infrastructure. It is indeed a state, and that is the difference. But we need to help each other in this country. I take note of the note and the willingness to take this issue with me. I think that's good. We need to start thinking differently. In the case of fossil gas, the Government is a little more cautious and expresses the government's general position. It's good, and I'm sharing it. But I and above all people in southeastern Sweden would like to see a little more action in this area. It is an extraordinary provocation to note, while people's wells run down, that companies seek to drill. Thank you for your answer.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-62	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for a good discussion. I would like to take several questions with me to my fellow ministers and the structure of government. I hope that we can come back to them quickly. I would also like to give an extra thought to the country that is also very much in love with me. It's a fantastic landscape. I'd be happy to go back to Öland. I've been there a couple of times, and I'm happy to return in my capacity to look at the questions. We'll see when it can come.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Jonas Gjörtler has asked me whether I and the government are prepared to take a number of measures with regard to the work of the Chemicals Inspectorate on pesticide approval and, if so, when and in what way. Jonas Gjörtler raises the following points. There are quite a few of them, but I'll read them out: 中 to give the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate clear instructions to seek harmonisation with other EU countries, including in its own decisions regarding authorisations and exemptions for plant protection products 中 instructing the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to apply the mutual recognition system with other EU countries more effectively and to a greater extent 中 to evaluate how the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate lives up to its instructions in § 4 paragraph 4 of Regulation 2009:947 中 to give the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate a clearer mandate to cooperate with other relevant authorities, such as the Swedish Agriculture Agency 中 to give the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate a clearer mandate to collaborate with the companies concerned, for example through industry organisations 中 to instruct the Swedish Chemicals Agency to give more consideration to the consequences of the Authority's decisions and to carry out comprehensive assessments of how best to achieve their benefits in the long term. Madam President, I would like I note at the outset that the legislation on plant protection products is harmonised by the EU by Regulation 1107/ 2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products. The purpose of the test is to ensure a high level of protection both for human and animal health and for the environment and to improve the functioning of the internal market while improving agricultural production. The Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is responsible for the review that takes place after application by anyone who wants to sell a product on the market in Sweden. The decisions can be appealed to a court of law. Madam President, I would like It is not my job to comment on the application of the regulatory framework by the Chemicals Inspectorate. Nor is it up to me or the government to give instructions or mandates to the Authority on the application of EU legal acts. The EU regulation also regulates a simplified procedure for mutual recognition of product authorisations. Through this procedure, the authorisation holder may apply for authorisation of the same plant protection product for the same use and in accordance with comparable agricultural practices in another Member State. The Member State to which such an application is submitted shall authorise the plant protection product concerned under the same conditions as the Member State which initially examined the application. In both cases, a Member State may, under certain circumstances, depart from the conclusions of the assessment carried out by the other Member State and refuse to authorise the plant protection product on its territory if, because of its specific environmental or agricultural conditions, it has reason to consider that the product in question presents an unacceptable risk to human or animal health or the environment. The EU regulation also regulates emergency emergency measures in the field of plant health. In everyday language, these are commonly referred to as exemptions. By way of derogation, in specific cases a Member State may authorise the placing on the market of a plant protection product for a maximum period of 120 days for restricted and controlled uses where such a measure appears necessary because of a danger which cannot be contained otherwise reasonably. The Member State concerned shall immediately inform the other Member States and the Commission of the measure taken and shall provide detailed information on the situation and all measures taken to ensure the safety of consumers. The Swedish Food Safety Authority consults the Swedish Food Safety Authority on residue assessments and the Swedish Agriculture Agency on efficacy assessments of product authorisation for plant protection products. The Authority has regular dialogues with the relevant professional organisations and companies. During the year, the Agency has published on its website a clearer description of the management process and developed the texts on pesticides to clarify the application of existing rules. In order to make it easier for applicants, the Swedish Chemicals Agency has also developed guides to the application for pesticide authorisation. The Agency has also, in consultation with the National Federation of Farmers, developed a guide for the application to allow the placing on the market of a plant protection product in an emergency in the field of plant protection.
i-S2z4rgpk8mNve5Zobw3zWw	Madam President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. Today, many farmers are forced to phase out activities that they have been running for a long time due to the tough economic realities that currently prevail. We also see food production that moves or is forced to shut down because the ability to operate here in Sweden is deemed to be worse than it is elsewhere. This is happening despite our basically fairly good natural conditions for having agricultural activity in our country. That, of course, should not be the case. But it must be noted that politics has unfortunately been more part of the problem for a long time than part of the solution, as it should be. We have a number of Swedish special rules, high taxes and extensive administrative burden. All in all, this means additional costs for Swedish farmers and for Swedish food companies. It is important that we can reverse this trend and instead work to ensure that the conditions for agriculture are more similar in other countries. This is particularly true within the European Union, because we are in the same market. There will be a need for regulatory simplification, a reduction in red tape, improved coordination between different authorities and a reduction in administrative costs. We have a concrete, highly topical and immediate problem that I address in my interpellation. This applies to the Chemicals Inspectorate, which in a number of cases makes completely different assessments and interpretations of the EU acquis than the corresponding authorities in other countries. The Authority does not take into account the overall impact of the decisions it takes. It is a form of pipe thinking that is a general problem in all contexts, and especially when authorities engage in it. In this area, there will be almost devastating effects. The Agency takes decisions without regard to how cultivation is affected or what the environmental impact is if imports from other countries without our environmental requirements instead increase as a result of the Authority's decision. One might well ask: What is the environmental benefit of Swedish onion cultivation being eliminated because the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate does not approve the use of a plant protection product? Instead, onions are imported from other countries, such as Holland and France, which use five times as much of the same plant protection products as we in Sweden today do not want to approve, but which we have used here before. In what way would this be good for the environment, and in what way would it be good for Swedish consumers that we shut down Swedish cultivation and import similar products from countries that use many times more of the same plant protection products that the Swedish authority wants to ban? Madam President, I would like It's serious now, and I don't think it really holds that the government is passively watching and trying to wave this away. You have to act now. The government must act, and we must do what we can to ensure that we have working conditions of competition for agriculture. In her reply, the Government mentions that she does not think it is her job to express an opinion on how the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate applies the regulations. I do not share that view. I believe that the government has many opportunities to govern the authorities. That is how we have regulated things in Sweden. That the Government alone tells the Authority what to do in an individual case is not possible, but it is clear that the Government as a whole can give clear instructions to an authority like the Swedish Chemicals Agency on how to work with these issues. That directive is the right of the government. You can also work with goal and results dialogue with the agency to get to grips with this. What are the government and the minister prepared to do with regard to the Chemicals Inspectorate and the fact that the decisions in cases after cases are totally different from the assessment made in other EU countries?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-81	Madam President, I would like I will also continue to dwell on southern Öland. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler well addressed the issue in the broad perspective. I would like to go down to the practical perspective. In November, about a hundred farmers on Öland decided to plant onions and beans. That's about how most farmers do it – before the season begins, you look at what demand there is and you draw up contracts for the production you are supposed to have. A few weeks ago the onion was sown, which will grow and become strong. Sweden has quite good conditions to produce both onions and beans, especially on Öland. However, some time ago the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate made a decision that certain pesticides should not be used. This means that the costs of the production already in the land are likely to triple or quadruple. So farmers will never be able to count back the products they have now planted. Two weeks from today you will sow the next product: beans, which is a growing product in Sweden – especially on Öland, where you have a growing climate that is very good for beans. You're supposed to sow them in two weeks. But it will probably not be, because if you are not told that you can use the pesticides that can be used in all other EU countries, you do not see any conditions for growing this product. Thus, we will remove a product from the Swedish agricultural market that has been the strongest growing and very good from both agricultural and production perspectives. It is good for agricultural land to switch crops from year to year, and legumes provide very natural nutrients to the soil. It is good because it is a product that adds protein without, as cows and other products do, adding a lot of carbon dioxide to the natural cycle. It is also a product that many farmers think is good because they can make money from it and there is a strong demand. The production has doubled over a few years and is also looking at growing the product on Gotland. But probably it will be the last year you grow this product because you can't count the production of it. It can be said that there is European harmonisation. Yes, there is. But the special legislation or the application of the legislation we have in Sweden means that Sweden is the country in Europe that has the least number of authorised pesticides. Sweden also has the toughest control and the toughest regulation of how these plant protection products should be used. In the end, it means that we probably have some of the best products. We pollute the soil very little, and we have very small traces of pesticides in our food products. Therefore, I think we can say that we have the best products – which are now being knocked out of the Swedish market. You say you don't want to run the ministry, Åsa Romson, but in the end, you still have the responsibility. The islander or Scanian farmer who produces beans or onions does not ask for ministerial rule, but asks what you can do to save this nourishment. My question to you is: What are you going to do not go into history as the minister who closed Swedish onion and prayer production?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your dedicated post on a very important business sector for Sweden! It is not only economically and because it provides jobs in large parts of the country, but also because each country needs stable and developed food production. It is also part of our basic security structure. It is, of course, important for the government to ensure good conditions for the agricultural industry. It is also with those entrances that the government has appointed and in broad discussion is working on a national food strategy. The aim is to provide the conditions for increasing the production of food in Sweden. I would also like to say that we have an incredibly committed and conscious consumer corps in Sweden. Swedish consumers are very proud of the Swedish-produced goods. They trust Swedish products, and in measurements and analyses they also get the right from researchers in their analysis that you can trust Swedish products. Swedish products now contain – at least in general and not in isolated terms, for example – decreasing levels of pesticide residues. It is something extremely valuable for Sweden and soils, but above all for consumers, not least those who want to be able to trust the products and that we get as much poison out of the system as possible. As far as the EU acquis is concerned, however, we are talking about regulations that are, I would like to stress, harmonised and coordinated throughout the European Union. It is, therefore, the regulatory framework that we in the European Union have jointly agreed on. It is also rules that are applied nationally on the basis that it is a harmonised regulatory framework. This means that the deviations that exist must be placed within the framework that the regulatory framework allows. I gave a fairly detailed explanation of how the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is dealing with the issue. I also explained – and I would like to emphasise that it is important for me and for the Minister for Rural Development, who also deals with agricultural issues from a nutritional point of view – that the authorities that jointly deal with these issues, including the Chemicals Inspectorate as the decision-making authority for placing plant protection products on the market consult the Food Safety Authority as regards residue assessment and the National Agricultural Agency as regards efficiency assessment of, for example, product authorisations. These dialogues are extremely important. It is also extremely important for the Authority in its regular dialogues with the relevant professional organisations and companies to take in further information. This should serve as a basis for assessing what is within the regulatory framework, what needs the market has, what other possibilities exist and what impact this has on the environment. It is the balanced assessment of what is at the heart of it. Precise assessments and applications of these rules are not for me or any of my colleagues in government to comment on because it is courts that have the opportunity to review the rules at the end of the day.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Romson, for your answer. The Government is addressing this matter with the Food Strategy. I would like to agree that this is an important and good job. We still hope that this will be a good result of the food strategy, even though the work has been a little slow. However, I would like to say that this is partly another issue, because it is about creating good long-term competitive conditions for agriculture and food production. We must also be able to deal with urgent and concrete issues that are a problem here and now, and here I do not see the Government answering the questions and problems that we see. The Government mentions that we have low levels in the products grown in Sweden, and that we have little use I mentioned in my previous post. It will still be difficult for me to understand why we should knock out Swedish onion cultivation, for example, and import products from countries that use five times as much of the plant protection product that is now not allowed in Sweden. After all, that logic has a slight limp. Swedish consumers like the Swedish products because they have good quality and because they use some of these plant protection products. Now the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's decision to eliminate these crops is at risk. I'm having trouble seeing the benefits of that. Åsa Romson mentions that we have a harmonised regulatory framework. Yes, that's exactly what we have, but Sweden doesn't apply it. That's part of a problem. There was a report from the EU Food and Veterinary Office, FVO, which looked at this with mutual recognition. It was noted in its final report that the mutual recognition system is not applied in Sweden, mainly because of Sweden's decision not to accept evaluations made by another Member State. This is described in the Final Report of the Competitiveness Investigation, which came about a year ago. From the table, I can see that we in Sweden have approved an application for mutual recognition – one. It contributes to the conclusion that Sweden does not apply the system. That is the main rule; that is what should normally apply. However, exceptions may be made if there are specific reasons. But I find it difficult to understand how it could be that Sweden, and only Sweden, has such special reasons that we can make exceptions in any case except just one. There is something limping here, and I think the Government sees it too. There are many examples of this, but there are three concrete examples that are hitting hard right now. The first is the plant protection product Stomp, which we have mentioned before. So this is about onion cultivation. The product may be used in all EU countries except Sweden, where it is prohibited but where exemption has been granted. The second example is the plant protection product Modesto, which had been applied for a derogation to be used in the cultivation of spring oilseed rape and spring rybs in Central Sweden. That's where the Chemicals Inspectorate said no. However, it may be used in other countries, such as Estonia, Finland, Denmark and the United Kingdom, which are competing with us. There is a risk that the cultivation of these crops will be knocked out and that we will have to import the oilseeds or oil from, for example, the United Kingdom, which uses the money we now completely reject in Sweden. The third example is the plant protection product Pirimor. I think that is familiar to some, because it is used, among other things, when growing peas – which among other things Findus produces, packages and sells with great success. This plant protection product must no longer be used, which is a clear competitive disadvantage for Swedish growers compared to competitors in the UK and Germany, where it is allowed to use the product. I still think the Minister is guilty of the answer here. The government can do things – you can give clear directives and assignments to the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate – and I want to continue to ask if Åsa Romson is prepared to do anything at all to address the problem and ensure the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-112	Madam President, I would like A while ago we saw a minister and party leader who went down to Bjuv and protested against a production plant closing there. I can guarantee that no minister or party leader will be present when 110 onion farmers and bean farmers on Öland cease their production. I get a little perplexed when the Minister says it's a balanced assessment. Just as Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has reported, it is a rather one-sided assessment in any case, and we have much more difficult production conditions for Swedish farmers. This actually means that we are sending out our agricultural production. The environmental code says that we should not export our environmental burden, but that is exactly what is happening now. Due to the application of the rules by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, production in Sweden ceases and is done in a worse way elsewhere – also with transport, which comes into production prices. It is clear that there is no risk versus benefit assessment; if one had done so, one would have understood that Swedish production takes place in a lower environmental load and to lower carbon dioxide emissions, which means that we get a better product in the end. If you had made a balanced assessment, you would have come to this, but you can't do that if you make the decision that means that Swedish onion and bean cultivation will stop. There's something the government can actually do. You can say: We want us to have the overall assessment, because we see that there is a great risk that we will stop all Swedish agricultural production in the long term. Therefore, my question is whether you want to be the minister responsible for the last onion being planted during your reign in Sweden, Åsa Romson.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-116	Madam President, I would like I thank you for an important debate concerning one of Sweden's most important industries, as I said. The Government is very keen that the opportunities for competition for Swedish agriculture and, above all, its development opportunities are good. We see that this is an important industry – perhaps not always as the largest export industry, but above all as an important safety industry for Sweden. Not least, it provides jobs and development throughout the country. This is therefore an important area, and as I said, we are working broadly on the issues. I am also aware that the Competitiveness Investigation came to a number of conclusions and that it is being prepared in the Government Office under the Minister for Rural Development. So we will have to come back to this. At the same time, we must also ensure that consumers have great confidence in the Swedish products. I believe that it is an important factor of competition and development for Swedish agriculture that it also continues to have a good reputation among Swedish consumers. It is a question of trusting that products are safe, that there are no pesticide residues and that they do not contribute to spreading toxins in the environment. With this, I would like to thank the two speakers for a pleasant debate, Madam President.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-121	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government. I think the Prime Minister will come up with a little bit of double notice. It's an important nutrition, says Åsa Romson and talks hotly because it's important to Swedish agriculture not only for export but also for us to be able to consume the products here at home. At the same time, the Government seems prepared to watch quietly when one of the government's authorities, over which the government actually has control, knocks away the bones for Swedish cultivation of onions, spring oilseed rape, spring rice, peas and so on. I'm having a really hard time getting this together. There are tools. We have proposed five concrete measures the government could take. This could be decided in principle directly. There are clear instructions and clear assignments to the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate on how it could handle this in order to save Swedish agriculture. We'll have to get back to you," says Åsa Romson. I think that is the problem here, that is, that everything is about waiting and seeing. You kick things off in long investigations that take a long time and hopefully can land in some proposals later on, but this issue is urgent here and now. If we do not act now, we will not have onion cultivation. We will not have cultivation of rapeseed and turnip rape, and we will not have any cultivation of peas to talk about in Sweden. I think it is a strange way to safeguard the consumer's confidence in the Swedish products to do so by putting away the bones for the Swedish products. What are consumers going to buy? We must have working conditions for competition. We cannot have an authority that makes completely different interpretations of the regulations than are done in other countries, and that is what the Chemicals Inspectorate is doing right now. I would like Åsa Romson to take the matter a little more seriously and dare to give a little clearer information about what she is prepared to do to get to grips with this.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-126	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not the case that the government quietly wants to see some parts of the food industry go under the ice and stop producing Swedish high-quality agricultural products. It is important that we do so in Sweden, and it is important that we take the responsibility to do so in a safe and environmentally and health-wise way. It is something not least that Swedish farmers have ensured and that the Swedish authorities have assumed is a common foundation. The common regulatory framework in the EU is based on taking account of these elements. There are indications that the same rules are used differently in different countries– I agree, and I read the same reports. It is, of course, also a matter for Sweden, that is, to act to ensure that the rules are complied with when it comes to considerations in other countries. We cannot have a poker situation where farmers in some countries get advantages and can use certain exceptions in legislation that are not applicable in a broader perspective for a very long time. It is, of course, a competitive disadvantage, and we must, of course, act responsibly on the basis of the common market and ensure that other countries also take that responsibility. I certainly take to heart the situation and the situation of the Members of this House. The government takes the situation seriously and we will come back to it. Thank you for a good debate!
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-129	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me whether I intend, in future directives for the review of Samhall, to critically highlight the company's increasing focus on staffing activities. The questioner also asks whether I intend to involve employees and trade unions in any form in the analysis of Samhall's development. Samhall's mission is to create developmental jobs for people with disabilities with reduced working capacity. It is Arbetsförmedlingen that directs people to Samhall during an employment contract. Such employment may take place for persons who cannot find a job other than a protected job and whose needs cannot be met by other measures. The employment rate of those with disabilities with reduced working capacity is significantly lower than that of the rest of the population, and the number of unemployed with disabilities at the Employment Service is still at very high levels. Many also have very long periods of unemployment. The labour market situation of these people needs to be improved. There is a wide range of measures to increase job opportunities for people with disabilities with reduced work capacity, such as wage subsidies. When these efforts have not been sufficient, the protection of Samhall's work has been, and should continue to be, an effort for those persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity who have the most difficulty in getting a job. On various occasions critical views have been expressed that it is not always the people with disabilities who find it most difficult to get a job assigned to Samhall. I take the criticism seriously and want to ensure that it is these people who get employment at Samhall. We need to gain more knowledge of the process from the assessment of a person with a disability with reduced working capacity to who is actually assigned and offered employment in Samhall. I will take the initiative to secure knowledge of this issue. Samhall will offer safe and developing jobs throughout the country.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-134	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ylva Johansson for his answer. I note that she takes the criticism seriously and wants to ensure that it is people with reduced working capacity who have the most difficulty getting a job that will benefit from Samhall. That's good. We are united there, and I have a lot of faith in the ambitions of the Government there. However, my questions went a little closer to Samhall's choices. I think it is a pity that the Minister does not take the opportunity to discuss some of the issues that I really think are important to discuss. I refer to the interpellation, among other things, that the growing proportion of the unemployed are classified as having some form of disability. This may partly be due to the fact that we know more about disability and functional variations today and that, when the requirements of the labour market are raised, it may affect the actual working capacity of people with disabilities. In addition, we know that insurance during the bourgeois reign meant that a large group of people with disabilities or long-term illnesses ended up with the Public Employment Service without being able in practice to be on the regular labour market. However, there are also indications that the classification for some is the result of long-term unemployment, i.e. that those who have been long-term unemployed are seen as disabled because of their unemployment situation, and that their classification can be assigned to Samhall. It affects who Samhall has to work with. This is a development that has gone hand in hand with the fact that there is a return requirement for equity in Samhall and that the requirements for self-financing have gradually increased. The existence of such a self-financing requirement may in itself sound effective. Is it from a larger socio-economic and general human perspective a happy development if Samhall becomes more like other business companies or other temporary agencies? Samhall has gone more and more from workshops, where employees at their own pace produce things, to deliver services in the cleaning industry, property management and warehouse management. I'm convinced this is a good job for many people in Samhall. But I think it is a serious shortcoming if profitability requirements and overall business strategy mean that those who do not belong in the service sectors that I mentioned, which are heavy industries physically and mentally, have no place at all or that some are worn out under these requirements instead of developing. That is why I have asked whether a review of the focus of activities may be relevant, i.e. that Samhall has increasingly developed into a temporary agency in the service sector. I don't think I got a real answer there. The reason for my second question, the one about involving employees and trade unions, is that Samhall's management is today very focused on the current strategy, while there are other approaches in those who actually do the job. In the interpellation, I mention, among other things, a letter from trade union representatives in Samhall to the Ministry of Industry not long ago. There they highlight the problem of not knowing from day to day where to be and what tasks to have. Employees move from one customer to another and have several customers during the day. I think it is quite obvious that this is something that can be extra heavy, even devastating sometimes, for people with certain types of disabilities. In such circumstances, I believe that a streamlining of Samhall's activities can go out on already vulnerable people. Then it means that we lose some of the fine, progressive and good with Samhall as an idea. I would like to hear Ylva Johansson comment and discuss Samhall's general development and, not least, the link with labour market policy more broadly.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-144	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the urgent question. These are very important issues that are highlighted in this debate and the interpellation. Let me say that I have no evidence that it would not be the case that Samhall is working with those who find it most difficult to get a job in the labour market. But I want to make sure that's really the case. And since there is criticism, I still have to take it seriously, and I do. The point with Samhall is that Samhall should not be like other companies and not be like another agency, but actually have a unique role in the Swedish labour market, which is what is the raison d'être for Samhall. I assume that is the case, but I would also like to ensure that this is the case. Samhall must be for persons with disabilities who have reduced working capacity and who cannot find work in any other way. Many people today have jobs with security or salary benefits, and many also work in Samhall. And Samhall should be for those who can't get a job otherwise. I think there is also reason to reflect on the composition and type of work in Samhall. I do not have the basis for drawing conclusions from the composition of the work that is being carried out today and how well they work for the people for whom Samhall exists. But it is of course a relevant issue, because people with disabilities who have reduced work capacity and who are unable to get jobs elsewhere and thus get jobs at Samhall are of course different and have very different types of work capacity. Samhall's unique competence is to take advantage of the ability to work and to develop the ability to work, and you do a good job there. But it is important that you can then offer jobs that can correspond to different work abilities in different individuals. So that question is relevant. There must be a diversity of tasks, and there must also be an opportunity to operate across the country. This is of course a special challenge for Samhall, because the labour market and demand are very different in different parts of the country. Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati also highlights the important issue of how to be classified at Arbetsförmedlingen, and it would almost be given room for its own debate. The coding or classification of persons with a disability with reduced working capacity by the employment services is related to the labour market and labour market needs. It is not surprising whether there is some correlation between changing labour market requirements and the people who will be coded. It must always be borne in mind that coding or rating really leads to people getting more help to get into work and that it does not lead to a lock-in effect or stigmatisation. It is therefore essential to hold a debate on the classification and its effect. Madam President, I would like The most important thing is that we can reverse the trend, because there has been no development of the employment rate for people with disabilities. It's been like a dead man's EKG. Independent of cyclical fluctuations, the employment rate for people with disabilities is constant. That is not acceptable. The government intends to combat unemployment and ensure that people get to work. This has so far gone in the right direction, but there is still more to be done for people with disabilities.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-155	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This interpellation debate is different from those where you have a clear view of what is wrong and what should be done and where you want to get the Government to say something or not so that you can go to the media and say it was not good. I am also genuinely perplexed about what to do, and it is good that the Government highlights some of the problem areas that exist. I hope it can be a good review of Samhall's activities. We agree that Samhall plays an important role and that very well happens there today. But when I have talked to people who have insight into the business or are in the business in different ways, I have heard that there is and over time there has been some frustration and wonder about the strategic choices that Samhall's management has made. Since Samhall is such an important part of Swedish labour market policy, it is important that we can hold this kind of conversation in the social debate. Part of the problem of coding, which Ylva Johansson was at the end, may have to do with the fact that there have been major shortcomings in other labour market policies, not least during the years of bourgeois government. For example, in the case of phase 3 and other activities for people who are far from the labour market, perhaps without necessarily having a clear disability, there has been a desire on the part of many not to end up there but rather to end up with Samhall because there is a good business there. Then there are other problems that also need to be solved at the same time. We agree, for example, that phase 3 should be phased out, and I believe that this will be a positive factor in this discussion and development. One problem when Samhall does not work as well as it should is that there may be more people who end up in municipal daily operations. It can be worse conditions, more isolated and without supervision – simply not a real job. Then we are back to the need to put Samhall and the development there in a wider context of labour market policy and employment policy. Let me use my last speech to further underline what my second question was about. If you are going to make a good review of Samhall, it is absolutely necessary to listen carefully to more than management – not to express any general suspicion against them, but there are different perspectives. Not least when it comes to taking advantage of different work abilities, there is a contradiction between renouncing Samhall's activities to become more a temporary agency in the service sector and people in Samhall's activities who have very different types of disabilities and needs. Renouncing too much can really go out on people who simply don't fit to have, for example, a cleaning job or a warehouse job within Samhall, even if it works well for many others.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-167	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is always important to listen to the views of employees. I assume the management does, too. There is a need for a review of Samhall. However, I do not want to promise a huge and hugely wide review, because at the same time I see the need for us to be able to act and ensure that we have a well-functioning operation relatively quickly. There are two things I would like to look at. The first is to ensure that it is the people who are intended in the target group, i.e. those who have the most difficulty in getting jobs, that Samhall takes on. The second is that we have, with joint efforts, increased the number of development jobs in Samhall. These include, in particular, younger people, where not all opportunities are exhausted, but where the employment at Samhall is used for the specific skills that Samhall has to strengthen people's work capacity in order to move forward. It is not a life-long job but a fixed-term employment, a development employment. It is a relatively new element, and it would be interesting to follow up how it has worked and what effects it has had. That is something I myself believe in very much, but to be sure that it works, we need to find out what the outcome actually is. It is important for Samhall to use its ability to strengthen people's working capacity so that they can move forward and develop, and I think that you are good at it. The government's approach to people who are unemployed in general and people with disabilities who cause reduced work capacity is especially that all people have resources. It must be the role of labour market policy to develop and strengthen these resources in the best way so that people can use them on the labour market and support themselves with a decent wage.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-174	Madam President, I would like There are several things that are good and praiseworthy in the development that is already underway around Samhall. As I mentioned, it is a good thing that we are moving forward with phase 3 decommissioning; it will have a positive effect. It is also good to have more development jobs. There are other things that need to be done that do not have to be done immediately with Samhall's organisation but which are crucial, for example, that the ceiling for wage subsidies will be higher in the future. It is a budget issue and a priority issue, but I think it is an important one in order to ensure that the labour market available to people with different types of disabilities is as good as possible so that as many people as possible can use as much of their work capacity. These are things that are or should be done. Let me emphasise that the way Samhall works has to do with how we, as a society, see the labour market and labour market policy, for example, what efforts we should make together to ensure that all people come to their rights. There is a problem here that what is the agency's logic, being able to compete for business and then ensuring that employees can deliver that service, may conflict with the fact that there are people who have very special needs and should therefore be present at Samhall to have these needs met. I hope that this will be part of the general discussion on Samhall in the future.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-180	Madam President, I would like The big investigation that was set up by the old government, the so-called Funka inquiry that looked at people with disabilities who have reduced working capacity in relation to the labour market, did not really investigate Samhall but landed a little briefly in Samhall's opening of competition. You didn't go deeper into the questions. That is also one reason why we need to look at some things more closely. Madam President, I would like I believe that I and Ali Esbati agree that Samhall has and should have a very important and unique role in the Swedish labour market. I believe that there is broad support here in the Riksdag to ensure that we have a Samhall that can work in the best way for those people who have the most difficulty in getting jobs in other ways, to strengthen their work capacity and to ensure that also people with severe disabilities with reduced work capacity can work and contribute to society and support themselves through pay.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-183	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me if the government is prepared to ensure with political tools the objective that has been announced regarding the composition of the various power laws on the Swedish electricity market. The work of the Energy Commission takes a system perspective to ensure a sustainable and competitive energy system with secure supplies of energy. This work includes everything from reviewing the conditions for the individual power laws to analysing the design of the entire market. All the subsidies, taxes and rules related to the energy system, including the tax on thermal power, are under discussion within the framework of the Energy Commission. Our objective with these discussions is to set targets for the energy system and to establish a roadmap for achieving the targets. However, it is too early today to comment on the outcome of this debate.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-186	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to the interpellation is the message that the government gave in a debate article that announced its entry into the energy talks, namely that it wants a 100% renewable energy system and that this will be achieved already within 20 years. I am well aware of the work being done in the Energy Commission. The new component in this respect is, as I see it, that the government, which has previously been clear about the entrance of a 100% renewable power system, is now adding to the retention sex that it should be present at this target already in 20 years' time. What we see as worrying is that the six remaining nuclear reactors, where there is no notification of their closure, have an operating time beyond 2036. With the entry announced by the government in the debate article, this means a span between 2040 and 2045 when you should not drive on but close prematurely, up to ten years for the newest reactors. It is one thing to have the will to produce new production in certain parts of the industry with policy instruments, but the question is how to deal with the remaining production facilities with the ambition they have. The Swedish Democrats regard it as worrying from the point of view that they are faced with substantial investments in the near future, where in part there is a need for rapid information about the existence or non-existence of the impact tax. If you make the necessary investments and want to drive ahead, you will need to run the technical lifetime out in order to finance the investments and get a return on the equity available in the business. When you introduce this type of retention sexercis, it becomes an additional parameter of uncertainty. What happens when you arrive at 2036 if the government is allowed to decide and you do not live up to this? Should production plants be closed down, or what kind of measures could be taken to achieve the ambition it has set itself? This question remains hanging, even beyond what is said in the interpellation response. What kind of measures can be taken if the ambition is not met? If the existing six nuclear reactors are not allowed to run their technical lifetime fully, it will clearly not be 100% renewable by 2036, for example. That is the question I would like to put to the Government once again.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-194	Madam President, I would like The very issue of the energy system and the availability of secure supply of electricity is central to our society, to our households and for us to live both comfortable and rich lives. Much of our modern life is based on the availability of electricity. It's about the country's development. Much of our industry, not least the basic industry, is dependent on secure supplies of electricity at competitive prices. The situation is currently very favourable to consumers and industry, and I think the interpellier can agree with that. We have large surpluses of electricity. Last year we exported more than ever, I think, especially to our neighbouring country, Finland. Prices are historically low. Last year we had average prices for the whole year at the equivalent of 20 øre per kilowatt hour excluding taxes and charges. But it is clear that we see challenges if we look ahead. Neither I nor Mattias Bäckström Johansson can really tell about exactly what happens in 15, 20 or 25 years. It is one thing to talk about technical longevity, but there must also be economic sustainability in this. It is against this background that we have been told that four out of the ten reactors we have today will be phased out within the next four years. We can do this precisely because, in these years, we have built up a capacity that will enable us to manage it. Similarly, we must, of course, ask ourselves what to do when the remaining six reactors are phased out for technical and economic reasons. We cannot wait until the minute when this is done, but we must have a plan in order to always secure electricity for households and industry. The government's entry is that we must be able to do this while increasing the sustainability of the system. We believe that it is perfectly possible to make it both renewable, secure and competitive. It is against this background that we have an Energy Commission sitting and working. I think it is important, Madam President, that we do not just screw in a small part of the system and believe that we have solved all the challenges – it is usually the usual, that we often focus on precisely the generation of electricity – but that for once we actually do a proper overhaul of the whole system. Yes, production is important, but the transmission network, core network, transmission capacity, use, energy efficiency and market design are also issues on which it is important to find solutions so that at all times we can guarantee our households and industries electricity at competitive prices. This is what we're working on now. From my point of view, as Minister of Energy as well as President of the Energy Commission, it is important not to pre-empt the talks and thus hinder a broad consensus on these issues, because I believe that a broad consensus is necessary in order to create long-term conditions for the energy system. If we do not succeed in this, the risk is that this period of zero investment, which is not a major concern at present, but which may be if it goes on for too long, will be lifted precisely because it creates long-term conditions for the energy sector.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-201	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats absolutely share the view expressed by the Government – that the system perspective is important as well as looking at what the energy system should serve in the context and not the reverse, what society and industry should demand to ensure that the energy system works in all respects. We are also in favour of taking a broader approach in an Energy Commission to find some form of starting position that is sustainable over several terms of office, given the investments made in the energy sector, which is about decades when the investment should be able to stand, not about individual years. However, if you look at the focus that has been placed on the Energy Commission through the comitology directive, you can see that it is after 2025 and especially on the country's electricity supply. What we see as worrying is what the Government also expresses, namely that consumers and industry have very low electricity prices, which is beneficial, but that these are not sustainable in the sense that it is invested in new production facilities to replace those who fall out. That is precisely why it is safety-enhancing measures in the existing nuclear reactors that are waiting. It is also a must if you are to be operational after 2020. If these investments are made, it will probably be necessary to be able to operate their plants throughout their technical lifetime. But then the confusion is thrown into what happens during the journey, towards 2040. It is thrown into debate articles that it should be 100 percent renewable already in 2036, which is almost ten years before the technical lifetime of some of these facilities expires. It also changes the conditions. If you create a lack of clarity that does not lead to these investments in, among other things, independent hearth cooling, 40% of the country's electricity generation will be gone before 2025, which is the time when the Energy Commission's solutions will start to apply. Then the conditions have been destroyed for the whole part that was the entrance to the calls from the very beginning. The Government says that a capacity has been built to deal with the decommissioning decisions that have come from the four nuclear reactors. I would like to say in part that it is rather a consequence of the capacity, overcapacity, which has been built up and which has been one of the most contributing reasons why we have had low wholesale electricity prices. Above all, we are talking about the expansion of renewables, with subsidies decided on politically, but we are also talking about a decline in demand. It has destroyed the conditions for all types of market investment in power generation. The role of politics is to try to find a starting point in which an open and free electricity market should be able to stand up without the need for political decisions to trigger investment. There is a clear risk that there will also be a very negative spiral in which policies, tax funds and various subsidy packages are needed to bring about investment. Then it is driven further and further away from some form of market mechanisms in the electricity market. I would like once again to flag for: I welcome much of the work that is being done within the framework of the Energy Commission. However, it also destroys the conditions for the work to be done to solve the conditions for the electricity market after 2025 by creating uncertainty for investments that have to be made long before then.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-209	Madam President, I would like It is clear that part of the basic challenge for nuclear energy is about low prices. Add to this the safety requirements that have been added following the Fukushima disaster, with independent core cooling, which in round terms corresponds to investment costs of approximately 1 billion per reactor. It is part of the challenge, and you have to find a way to deal with it. As I say in my answer, it is, of course, part of the Commission's work to reflect on these kinds of questions. You can always discuss what is the chicken and what is the egg. There is a discussion about what is causing the very low electricity prices that we have today, which are to the benefit of both industry and households. The Energy Commission has quite recently produced an analysis, a basis, about this and much more about the different power types. It is clear that everything affects, but this analysis and a number of other analyses carried out by other actors show that the main reason we have such low electricity prices in Sweden today is the low coal prices and low emission allowance prices. We are a country that is closely linked to other countries in terms of electricity systems. We have almost 4 gigawatts of transmission capacity down to the continent, Denmark, Poland, Germany. There's the price of coal on the margin. According to the analysis carried out by the Energy Commission and confirmed by a number of others, low electricity prices are explained as 80% of low coal prices and low emissions trading prices, the so-called ETS prices. One should not make it so easy for oneself that one believes that in a country as interconnected as Sweden is only decisions that we have taken here and now that affect our market, especially since it is by nature Nordic and increasingly continental. Nevertheless, this presents us with challenges – it is impossible to get away from. These are the challenges that we need to address, and that is what we are doing in the Energy Commission. Mattias Bäckström Johansson and S verigedemocraterna have also been invited to participate in this work. There, like all other parties, you can put forward your points of view. As I said, my ambition is to find a broad consensus within the Commission, so that we create long-term conditions and so that we get the necessary investments, because the aim is to guarantee our households electricity at competitive prices at all times. The government also believes that it is perfectly possible to make it renewable in the long term. As Mattias Bäckström Johansson mentions, we have clearly said that we believe it can be done within 20 years. Does this mean, in order to return to the question in your first speech, that with political decisions, as is done in Germany, we will ban nuclear reactors that are in operation? The answer to that question is unequivocally no.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-217	Madam President, I would like The last part of the Government's response was quite close to what the question was about in such cases, because it is a lack of clarity that one creates and that has been up to discussions where one does not say the whole part. It is one thing to have the objective that we may be able to land there, but the question is how far you are prepared to go to achieve the objective that has been set. I am well aware that the basis for the Energy Commission mentions low coal prices as the most crucial. But there is disagreement in this sector as to what has led to these prices. A recent report from Swedish Energy has indicated that it is rather a nid picture that low coal prices are the strongest contributing cause and that it is overproduction in the market that has a significantly greater impact on wholesale prices. There are different parts to this. I would still like to send the picture: The Energy Commission will look at the time after 2025. If we do nothing about the punitive taxation that is being applied to nuclear power and do not clarify the rules of the game in the near future, then the investments that need to be made by 2020 will not be carried out. This will destroy the conditions for the Energy Commission to work with, if 40 per cent of Swedish electricity production is to disappear. This will have a huge impact on everyone who lives in this country, the companies that exist here and, above all, the industry that must have strong access to secure and competitive electricity. This will completely destroy the conditions for this to happen, with the investments imposed in the near future. Thank you for your answer.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-221	Madam President, I would like Sweden has the best conditions within the European Union to create an energy system that is sustainable, competitive and secure. We have great access to hydropower, a huge asset both now and in the future, I think. Together with Norway, we have 70% of Europe's hydropower assets. The largest power source in Sweden is already bioenergy. We use it for heat purposes and have been able to replace oil in the heating sector almost entirely. There is quite a lot of wind in this country, which has meant that we now produce more wind power on the total than, for example, the wind farm country Denmark. In the same way, I believe that we are in a position to expand. Add to that, Madam President, the very good conditions for continuing energy efficiency efforts. Sweden has been very successful in this area, and the potential remains very great. Let me give you an example. According to the Swedish Energy Agency, if all households, public buildings, hotels and more switch lighting to LED – a lighting that works just fine today and where life expectancy means that it is significantly cheaper than what we use today – it would represent a saving of nearly 7 terawatt hours of electricity per year. The potential is thus still large. The Government's ambition and the Government's entry point is that we should now take steps not only to secure electricity for the next five or ten years for households and industries, but also to present basic conditions that will enable us to secure the supply of electricity for our households and industries for the next 25 to 30 years. In order to do this, we want a broad consensus so that a single player can know that if I invest my money here, it will be a successful deal, not just for the next two or three years, but for the next twenty years.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-227	Madam President, I would like Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me in what way I believe that a chemical tax with the proposed design contributes to environmental benefits, and how I estimate that the proposed tax affects jobs and growth in, for example, the highly competitive electronics trade, and in what way in the calculation of future tax revenues from the chemical tax, I have taken increased the fact that these revenues are missing if the effect is that trade moves from Sweden and in what way I have considered in my calculations that the negative effects of the proposed chemical tax on jobs and growth can lead to a deterioration in public finances. It should be pointed out at the outset that the Government has not yet submitted a proposal on chemicals tax. The chemical tax investigation submitted its report to the Government on 30 March 2015. The report has been referred to and is currently also being referred to a memorandum containing certain supplementary proposals on chemicals tax. The precise design of the chemical tax proposal the government will submit is not yet ready, but is currently being prepared. The government will come back with a proposal on chemicals tax, which has taken into account referral points, in a forthcoming legislative referral. The chemical tax proposal the government will present later this year will contribute to the environmental benefit by taxing goods containing substances with a negative impact on our health. This is estimated to make environmentally and health-friendly products relatively cheaper, compared with products that are less environmentally and health-friendly. In this way, we make it easier for consumers to choose the best products from the environmental and health point of view and benefit those companies that choose substances that have as little negative impact as possible. As regards the impact on public finances and employment, the budget bill makes an overall assessment of the impact of government policies.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-230	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is easy to agree with the ambition to remove dangerous chemicals from products that we use in our everyday lives. Work for a non-toxic environment is both important and prioritised. I think we agree on this in many ways. However, the issue we are dealing with here is how and with what tools we can best contribute to achieving this objective. The background is that the Alliance Government set up an investigation to investigate the need for and possible design of a chemical tax. It was done in 2013. Basically, I think that a chemical tax could be a good tool. Economic instruments at all are often tools that can be effective and work well if they are substances that we want to get rid of – various toxins, chemicals and other things that we consider harmful. However, this is based on the fact that two conditions are met. One is that such an economic instrument should preferably be active in the whole market of which we are part, that is, at European level in this case. The consequence of introducing an instrument – a tax in this case – in Sweden alone is that trade only moves elsewhere, i.e. buying the same products cheaper somewhere where the tax does not exist because we have free movement of goods within the EU. The second condition that must be met is that the tax must be designed in such a way that it hits the harmful substances that we want to combat, that is, that the tax should hit the chemicals and hit nothing else. What the investigation presented and which the government now wants to proceed with is a tax that is more to describe as a flat-rate tax based on the weight of the product and that it is not weighed in how much chemicals the product contains. The direct link between the amount of chemicals contained in the product and the tax does not exist. The effect will then be that there will be a flat-rate tax and that in practice there will be a consumption tax, i.e. that it is a way of imposing an additional tax on the consumption of certain products when buying them in Sweden. When consumers can then choose to buy these products in a country other than Sweden, the effect is unfortunately likely to be that the trade moves elsewhere, i.e. that jobs in Sweden are knocked out but that the environmental benefit that they strive for is not achieved either because the products are imported elsewhere from where they do not have this chemical tax. I have to say that it concerns me a little bit that I cannot get an answer from the Minister for Finance on whether it has calculated the effects on jobs and growth and how this would affect tax revenue. It is referred by the Minister of Finance to an overall assessment of these effects in the budget proposal. Let us hope that they are clearly presented then. I believe that one cannot go forward with such a proposal that risks having such a clear negative impact on jobs and growth without knowing what one is doing and what effects it will have on both jobs and on tax revenues. I hope that the Minister for Finance will be prepared to come back with a clearer accounting. This also means that the estimated tax revenues of 2 billion that have been talked about here for 2017 must be assessed as highly uncertain. If jobs disappear, the effect will be to reduce tax revenues. The question then is how the Minister for Finance sees this. I would like the Minister of Finance to develop a little bit of the ideas on this, i.e. that the tax is not properly designed and does not hit what it is supposed to hit and that the tax is not common to the whole market in which we operate.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-237	Madam President, I would like The work of a non-toxic environment is a priority for the Moderates, and it was a priority for the alliance government during our time in government. In addition to the fact that the chemical bill, on the road to a non-toxic everyday life, was produced, which not only presented milestones but also several concrete proposals, the Chemical Tax investigation was set up, which is the basis for our discussion here today. Economic instruments are an important piece of the puzzle in achieving environmental quality objectives. However, work for a non-toxic everyday life also needs to be characterised by long-term measures that with precision make dangerous substances more expensive to use without putting away the bones for jobs, growth and innovation. On the last point, there is potential for improvement in the study's proposal. What the investigation is now proposing are two excise duties on a variety of consumer goods, from stoves and refrigerators, flooring materials and wall and ceiling coverings to computers, tablets and routers. In the case of electronic goods in particular, the tax is based on the weight of the goods. This would make an average laptop up to 300 kr more expensive and a mobile phone 25 kr more expensive. Since the tax takes on just the weight of the product, it is a rather blunt way to steer away from dangerous chemicals, the very purpose of the commission was to set up this investigation. Despite the government's efforts to simplify the proposal's deduction for more environmentally friendly products, this fiscal solution risks becoming unclear and having a rather weak impact on consumers. In this way, this will also be more of a consumption tax that increases technological transition rather than a tax that calls for a green transition. An already rather complicated tax system is thus becoming more complicated for the companies involved. This raises some questions. The market for consumer electronics, for example, is today characterised by its international character. We have several chains in Sweden that are common to the Nordic countries and that in a fairly simple way can move to storage in other Nordic countries. A warehouse in Denmark or Norway can deliver to Sweden if you order their goods online. Then the jobs will also be moved. What this shows is precisely what my colleague said earlier, namely that a small country like Sweden does not affect global companies with global value chains. If we really want to influence chemicals, the EU is the right body for that. I would like to repeat the question raised initially by Jonas Gjörtler in this interpellation: Does the government really consider that this is a tax that does not strike at jobs and growth?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-243	Madam President, I would like Both speakers believe that we should instead have instruments at European level. I am a great supporter of instruments at European level. It is important and has also achieved some success at EU level in relation to chemicals. But the EU process is slow. It takes time. And it's not always you get all the countries with you. It is therefore important to be able to implement the necessary measures also at national level. It is obviously important that we work at European level. One doesn't rule out the other. In order to increase environmental governance at EU level, the government also pursues active policies at that level. If you are to have the principle of using only instruments at the level where they are active, as Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler advocates, you cannot have a lot of instruments. Many products are sold around the world. For example, the whole taxation of petrol and diesel that we have in Sweden would be difficult to justify with that reasoning. It is important to include these aspects in the drafting of legislation but still be able to take precedence. Sweden has done so. As Mr Gjörtler points out, this is a tax on consumption, with the effect that choosing a more environmentally friendly alternative will make it cheaper for the consumer. Of course, the Swedish tax will not affect the overall global production of these goods. Sweden is not that big. But it will reasonably affect how much environmentally dangerous goods are sold in Sweden. That's the point of this treasure. The exact impact it will have cannot be answered today because the exact design is not clear. However, on the basis of the proposal made by the study, there are – as you are well aware – estimates of the effects on the wider front.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-250	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance. The Minister for Finance points out that the EU process takes time and that action at European level is certainly important, but at the same time we should be able to act locally. I think it's important to think about what you're doing and what the consequences are. It may sound nice that we should try to influence Europe, but at the same time we must be able to make our own regulations here. We often think that this should be the basic way in which it should be. However, the situation in the affected market must be taken into account. The comparison made by the Minister of Finance with petrol and diesel is not very relevant in this context. It is a clear national market. Most people who buy petrol and diesel in Sweden buy their vehicle fuel in Sweden. You cannot go online and order diesel from another EU country. On the other hand, in the field of consumer electronics, there is marked fierce competition. It's a global market. But it is above all an EU market. It is easy to shop directly from our neighbours, online or by crossing the border. The competitive situation is therefore tough as it is. If we then add an extra tax that only hits the part of the trade that is taking place in Sweden, we risk the effect being that jobs are forced out and moved abroad. The environmental benefit is also lacking, as the products are then purchased elsewhere than where the tax is located and where it was intended to give effect. As has been said, it is also problematic to choose to base it on the weight of the goods. It is intended to meet two product groups: certain electronics – basically consumer electronics and appliances – but also PVC floor, wall and ceiling materials. In both cases, the tax shall be based on the weight of the goods. This makes it a flat-rate tax that in a bad, blunt and not very precise way meets the subject you really want to get to. That is my main objection. I do not think that the chemical tax, as suggested by the investigation, achieves what was intended. The risks are great that this will hit jobs hard and that it will not lead to environmental benefits either. I hope that the government can take this into account and take it into account in the further work before the final proposal comes. I would like to emphasise that it is important to push ahead within the European Union in order to make the work work work better. The EU countries together are a market of 500 million inhabitants. The manufacturer of a television, computer or mobile phone obviously has a great need to adapt the product to the EU-wide regulatory environment. There is not at all the same interest in adapting the production of a television or mobile phone to Sweden, which has barely 10 million inhabitants. The EU is an important player in the world economy. Sweden should be better at seeing the EU as a tool to get through these kinds of rules. The government should focus on getting the EU to implement these rules for the whole market. Then they'll have a completely different effect. When we implement them unilaterally in Sweden, the effect risks being – as with many other government policies, unfortunately – that it strikes at jobs and growth here and that the environmental benefit is not.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-257	Madam President, I would like In the event of major conversions, it is important to think long-term for the producers. The proposal now on the table is rather impractical and rather blunt and risks having the effect of moving jobs. A better model would be to look at how to tax environmentally hazardous substances directly. I will take two concrete examples. One is floor manufacturer Tarkett, which has production in Ronneby. On their PVC flooring, the tax will be significantly increased. It is floors that are needed and that are difficult to substitute because they are very smooth. They are used in healthcare, for example, because they can become very clean. Tarket is taxed despite the fact that their floors do not contain the same amount of softening phthalates as floors made abroad. And it is precisely softening phthalates that we want to access. If we look at the chemical industry and companies like PP Polymer and Paxymer we can see that they work a lot to minimize the use of flame retardants. With their small technological additives, you can manage to use only one fifth as much flame retardants. It is, of course, desirable. We do not want products that are at risk of catching fire. It is good that you can go from high doses to low. But with this proposal, they are taxed the same way. It is strange that we should punish Swedish jobs and Swedish innovators for importing goods that contain more poisons, more of what we want to remove. It will be almost a bit like the government's agricultural policy, to make a clear comparison.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-261	Mr President, I would like to This is basically about the environment in which we want our children and young people to grow up. Is it supposed to be an environment filled with dangerous chemicals? Or should we politicians have done everything we can to prevent it from being filled with dangerous chemicals? In all honesty, we also do not fully know what the long-term consequences are for children and young people living in environments with all the chemicals we have around us now. You can do as the Moderates say: we are not going to do anything in Sweden, we are going to wait and we are going to try to get the EU and 28 Member States of the EU to agree to do something. Then we'll sit and wait. But exactly the same argument that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler uses to ensure that we in Sweden do not go ahead in the EU can be used for why the EU should not go ahead. Others will too. It's gonna take time. I don't want to wait. I want children and young people to be able to grow up in a more nontoxic environment than at present. That is why we are presenting this proposal. For us, it's important. We will direct consumption towards more non-toxic materials in electronics and floor coverings. I would just like to remind you that the assessment made by the investigation is that sales via foreign e-commerce for floor coverings might increase by 0.1 percentage points.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-266	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance. I find it a little sad that the Minister of Finance is trying to make this sound like there are different views on whether or not we are striving to achieve a non-toxic environment. I was quite clear in my introduction. I said that it is easy to agree with the ambition to remove dangerous chemicals from products that we use in our everyday lives. Work for a non-toxic environment is a priority. The Alliance government gave this a high priority, and that was also a reason why we set up this investigation. We wanted to see if a chemical tax could be a tool in that work. This does not automatically mean that the proposal that the investigation has come up with is good and appropriate. That is my criticism of the proposal. Chemicals tax in the way it is proposed here will not make us achieve the environmental benefit that the Minister for Finance here speaks hotly for. The effect is not to get rid of these chemicals, but instead to get rid of the jobs while the trade moves abroad and the products are bought from outside with the same amount of chemicals as before. The argument that the European Union would not be a large enough market, but that it could use the pretext of wanting an international market, I think, does not hold up. The EU has 500 million inhabitants, Sweden has 10 million. It is clear that a manufacturer of electronic products or floors sees it as a big difference if you need to adapt your products to 500 million inhabitants or if you need to adapt them to 10 million. It is not about the environment that we want to see. I think we really agree that we want a non-toxic environment in our everyday lives. We want to remove harmful substances. The question is about which tools to use and how to design the instruments so that we achieve what we want to achieve. I think Magdalena Andersson wants something else. She believes that this is an easy way to collect SEK 2 billion in pure consumption tax for the Treasury. That is the real motive behind the Finance Minister's proposal.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-272	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates think that this is a very priority, so prioritised that you don't want to do anything. Fortunately, there is no consensus in the Alliance. The Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals have been very enthusiastic about this proposal. I am pleased that there is such a large and broad majority in the Swedish Parliament that actually wants to do something and is not just waiting for someone else, such as the European Union, to do it.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-273	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me if I see a link between increased taxes on labour and a lower rate of increase in tax revenue. She has also asked me why the government does not lower tax levels on, above all, labour rather than raising them. As I have already said in a previous interpellation debate with Anette Åkesson, very large increases in the number of hours worked are required in order for reduced taxes on labour to lead to increased tax revenues. According to the Financial Policy Council's assessment, increases of this magnitude are extremely rare. To take the example of the job tax deduction, the bourgeois government itself calculated that the self-financing rate for the first four steps of the job tax deduction was less than 50 per cent and that for five it was only 20 per cent, which means that the job tax deduction leads to lower tax revenues even if one takes into account any job supply increases. Thus, the bourgeois government itself did not claim that reduced taxes generally lead to increased tax revenues. After the terms of office of the bourgeois government with unfunded tax cuts, we saw not only large holes in the state's finances, but also unemployment that has stuck to a high level. Instead of investing in massive tax cuts, the government is investing in increasing employment and reducing unemployment. This is done mainly through investment in education and active labour market policies, investment in housing and infrastructure, and an active enterprise policy for more and growing companies. Emphasis on welfare is also a central part of the government's employment policy. The 2016 Budget Bill makes an overall assessment of the impact of the Government's policy. Overall, the policy is estimated to lead to higher sustainable employment and lower unemployment in the future.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-276	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We have seen during the year of the Alliance that reduced taxes on labour contributed to more hours worked. Of course, this was part of a package of other measures, such as strengthening labour supply and labour demand. Tax revenues increased each year apart from 2009 in the wake of the financial crisis. In 2011 – 2012 the pace was not so high with the recession, but then it took off again to reach as much as 7 per cent in 2015 – with Alli's budget. I am pleased that Magdalena Andersson also sees this, but it is regrettable that she and the government are content to present budgets that will show a lower rate of increase than we should be able to achieve in the future. But it is clear, when taxes on labour are raised, why should you work that hour extra when, in the worst case, you can only keep 30 crowns of every hundred dollars earned? Then you might as well be free. Leisure becomes relatively more attractive. And that the number of hours worked would increase, no one can expect when you get relatively better paid not to work. The budget of the Social Democrats and the Green Party is a problem, which is confirmed by the fact that it is supported by the Left Party. The problem does not only arise in the short term, but is reinforced in the longer term. Let's think about ten years ahead of time. Then the large 40th-century litters are in their 80s, an age when more and more people are dependent on help from society. At the same time, we are starting to retire many 60s. The burden of supply for those then working will be great. But if those of working age do not even work because they have not been able to enter the labour market – as we now see among many young and foreign born – then it becomes really serious. Today there was a report that future pensioners will not receive as much pension as has been said. Especially women are affected. What if the Swedish people had realised in depth the connection between hours worked and pensions? Then the voters would not have been gracious to the present government, but it will not have to answer directly when this is noticed in its own wallet. And it does not get any better if present-day politicians finance operations and deliberately underestimate future costs. The latter we will talk about on Friday. We do not even have to look as far ahead as ten years, it is enough to imagine the next recession. The fact that we are now not filling the empty barns during the boom means, combined with the challenges we are now facing in the area of integration, that in the next recession we have nothing to take off. Every household understands that. Time and again the government talks about investing in increasing employment and reducing unemployment, but it stops at fine words. It may be like the pensioners – a few get tax cuts, but these are eaten up by increased contributions or financed by other pensioners. The Alliance carried out a series of reforms, some tough, but with a clear focus that also produced results: the work line. It is precisely an increase in the number of hours worked that provides more resources for welfare. Work is also the best way to integrate new Swedes. What are Magdalena Andersson's driving forces for more work? What are Social Democrats, environmentalists and Left Partyists launching as equivalent to the Alliance's work line?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-283	Madam President, I would like No, I mean Mr President. Tax revenues vary enormously with the economic cycle. The economic cycle is absolutely central to tax revenues. Anette Åkesson wants to take the fact that tax revenues vary over the years as revenue because Moderate politics has been very successful. I don't think you can look at it that way. But if you now choose to do as Anette Åkesson does, you should look at diagram 5.1 in the spring bill and look at the annual change in percentage of tax revenue during the alliance government and under the Social Democratic government. Even if one tries to count as much as possible in Anette Åkesson's favour, it cannot be established that tax revenues increased more under the bourgeois government than under the present Social Democratic government. Between 2010 and 2014, the average annual rate was 2.6 per cent. Now, however, Anette Åkesson thought that 2011 and 2012 were bad years. But even if you do a 中 nice calculation, where you take away 2011 and 2012 and count on 2013 and 2014 but also 2015 you get a lower annual rate than if you count on the years 2015– 2018 or, if you want to delete the years 2015, 2016– 2018. Thus, even if one tries to make a calculation in favour of Anette Åkesson, one does not succeed in finding that tax revenues increase more under bourgeois governments than they do under the Social Democratic Government. In 2015, both an alliance budget and a Social Democratic budget were involved, as we came up with a very meagre amending budget already in April 2015. In addition, caution should be exercised in 2015, as a one-off payment made tax revenue particularly high at the time. But even if 2015 is removed from us, the Social Democratic Government, in the forecast, we will have higher tax revenues than was the case under the alliance government. The question is therefore answered.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-289	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance doesn't seem to have listened very well to what I said earlier. It is clear that we must take account of the financial crisis and the recession. But if you look at the level of the coming years and compare with previous years, which were not affected by financial crisis and recession, you can see that the increase in tax revenues was then greater. In addition, the Minister of Finance seems to have stumbled on the fact that the Alliance left behind a deficit. But it was fully in line with the fiscal framework. As Magdalena Andersson is aware, the Riksdag has set the surplus target for financial savings to be 1 per cent of GDP on average over a business cycle. The key words are: Over a business cycle. You fill the barns during a boom in order to be able to use the content during recession. That's why the barns need to be filled now. It may be worth recalling that it was households that kept Sweden's economy going, not the export industry, as it usually is. Households could draw the locomotive, among other things, because they could keep a little more of their income, i.e. paid lower taxes – but not dramatically lower, as you might sometimes think when you hear the Minister of Finance. We were still among the countries in the world with the highest taxes. However, the fact that we are now world champions and have up to just over 60% marginal tax, even 70% if employers' contributions are included, combined with these high marginal taxes being levied from relatively low incomes compared to other countries, does not encourage anyone to work. The Minister of Finance deals with welfare spending as a central part of the government's employment policy. She is welcome to clarify this, because according to the spring proposal, the expenditure category 16 Education and university research will receive less resources this year. This also applies to Category 9 Health, health and social care, which receives less resources both this year and the coming years. To promise 10 billion to the municipalities sounds very good and is welcomed by many. But, it is true, Magdalena Andersson, that the temporary investment of 9.8 billion is being withdrawn at the same time. In addition, sickness rates are increasing, not least in municipalities, which will burden the economy throughout the country in the future. No, promising things you can't keep is reprehensible. Why is the government not engaged in the constructive task of politicians: ensuring good conditions for companies? If we have a competitive Sweden with companies that are well-being and hire, tax revenues increase not only for all those who get jobs, but also for the public sector and thus also for those who depend on support from society. To burden companies and employees with higher taxes and charges for hiring and working, as the Social Democrats and the Green Party do, does not lead to higher tax revenues. Instead, it leads to people working less and to companies avoiding hiring or, in the worst case, moving away from Sweden. Tax revenue increases more when an offensive policy is pursued, not when six out of ten receive a lower disposable income or when contributions are raised by SEK 77 billion. That the government is counting on a deficit throughout its term of office and yet increases the contributions – how does the Minister of Finance think it will hit the weakest in the longer term? How will Sweden cope with the next recession? And how will municipalities and county councils meet the challenges we face regarding an ageing population?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-295	Madam President, I would like This post from Anette Åkesson contained so many errors that I think I have to go through some of them. Firstly, the whole question is based on the wrong premise. Anette Åkesson claims that tax revenues increased faster during the alliance government. No, they didn't. The only year when they did it was in 2010, and that was after the tax revenue had fallen significantly in 2009 right after the crisis. That you get a recoil up in that position is very common. But all the other years under the alliance government there was a lower annual percentage increase in tax revenue than it will be throughout this term of office. These are the facts. The question is therefore based on wrong premises, and it would be good if Anette Åkesson stopped repeating that error. Secondly, Anette Åkesson argues that six out of ten receive lower disposable income. That's the wrong way to read the tables. Each decile contains a number of different individuals who either win or lose on the government's budget, so you can't read the tables that way. Thirdly, Anette Åkesson argues that the bourgeois government adhered to the fiscal framework. In any case, this was not the view of those who evaluate the government, namely the Council of Finance Ministers, who were clear that they did not adhere to the framework. Not one of the indicators of the fiscal framework and the surplus target was maintained, but it broke very clearly with the surplus target. That's where we took over. We made sure to reverse the trend. Every year when it was a bourgeois government, budget deficits increased. They kept increasing. It was not that there was a little deficit during the recession itself and that they then decreased when the economic cycle turned. No, they grew every year, even in 2014, which was a fairly good year. However, something happened when we took over government power. Since then, we are reducing deficits. We've taken hold of the state finances. But, of course, public finances are currently affected by the fact that we received 163 000 asylum seekers in Sweden last year. We must be able to face such unexpected events. That is why it was a good thing that we broke with the Alliance's policy, which was constantly borrowing for tax cuts and cutting down welfare, and instead ensuring that we can face this challenge with solid ground under our feet. This means that we are also strong at this point. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind the Minister of Finance that we tend to keep up with the arrangements in Parliament. If there is a male President, you say, Mr President, there is a female President, you say, Madam President. This has been the case for several years, if the Minister of Finance were to forget about it in the future. )
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-302	Mr President, I would like to If this is the excuse for the Minister of Finance to budget these deficits throughout his term of office, it is indeed tragic, as this is happening in a boom. Sweden is now, unfortunately, the world champion in the tax burden on labour, but yet this is precisely what the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government is aiming for. These are substantial increases in their regulatory changes. We in Sweden are cautious about presenting so-called dynamic effects and applying the precautionary principle. There may be reasons not to go forward with joyous estimates on the revenue side of the budget, but at the same time it is partly misleading not to take into account behavioural changes resulting, for example, from large tax increases. When the government so deliberately increases taxes and taxes on labour, it will have negative consequences, both on the number of hours worked and on tax revenues. During the Alliance, the number of jobs increased by around 350 000, despite the financial crisis and recession. Lower taxes on labour were a means of contributing to this. It is completely incomprehensible to me that social democrats and environmentalists do not take advantage of and build on this development, but instead back up the country to – yes, what? It is not possible to solve all the challenges of tax increases, as was done in the 1960s. We live in a globalised world, and people and businesses are increasingly mobile. It is argued by the government that it invests in welfare, but it does not appear in the documents it leaves, but, on the contrary, it reduces the funds for these areas. They are thus fooled by those who depend on support from society both in the short and long term.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-306	Mr President, I would like to I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. When you think, Madam President, I am not allowed to say that. That's exactly what pops out anyway. If you can't say it, you say it is the elephant. Mr President, I would like to If you want a welfare state with security, with the opportunity for everyone to grow up in a safe environment, where you should age in a safe environment, be sick in a safe environment, become unemployed in a safe environment, then you need to get tax revenue. Then you have to be prepared to also charge taxes. Care must be taken to design the tax system in such a way that it affects the economy as little as possible. It must be ensured that revenue is used in such a way that it also strengthens opportunities for employment and participation in the labour market. If the tax is collected well and the tax money is used well, you can create societies that both provide security and have a high level of prosperity. There are some countries in the world that are receiving great international attention for successfully combining high tax rates with high labour force participation and a high level of welfare. These are the Nordic welfare models. It is the Swedish model that stands as an international role model and which arouses great international interest in the fact that we succeed in combining equality and growth with high tax levels. It is based on being prepared to have a high tax burden. Here the Moderates differ from this government. We see that there is a need for prosperity and that it needs to be paid. The Moderates are responsible for tax cuts and cuts. There is the dividing line in Swedish politics – develop or phase out the Swedish model.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-310	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm asks whether Sweden intends to oppose subsidies in the field of agriculture, in particular for milk and meat production, and what I think about the proposed meat institute and how I believe that the large surpluses of milk, butter and meat should be managed. This is a difficult situation for farmers in the EU. In Sweden, our dairy farmers find it particularly difficult due to continued low milk prices. Discussions at EU level have intensified in the spring and the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 14 March presented 13 measures to remedy the difficult situation. With regard to the first question put by Jens Holm, I would like to start with a clarification. Some of the measures listed are planned by the Commission and some measures will be further analysed by the Commission. So it is not a single package of measures that the Council of Ministers decides on. Some of these measures also fall within the competence of the Commission. The common agricultural policy has been reformed, but there have always been systems of market measures. In relation to the market price, intervention prices are very low and thus do not encourage increased production. The proposal to increase intervention quantities is a consequence of reaching the current ceiling for skimmed milk powder. Otherwise, when the ceiling is reached, a tendering procedure will come into force, which will entail similar costs for the EU. The difference for the sector with higher intervention quantities is increased predictability of price. The Commission considers that this increase is within the current budget. With this in mind, Sweden voted in favour of the Commission proposal. In this context, I must also point out that Sweden is one of the few Member States that has pushed for market-oriented solutions. Several Member States have asked for measures that may be productive. Among other things, increases in intervention prices and levels of state aid under the de minimis threshold have been requested. In these discussions, Sweden has consistently stressed the importance of market orientation, fair competition between Member States and measures that can create better conditions for EU farmers in the long term. This is something I will continue to maintain. As regards Jens Holm's second question, I would like to make it clear that a market observatory is not an intervention in the market. Its task is solely to gather information on, inter alia, prices and production. There is already a similar milk observatory which has worked well. This will provide stakeholders with information on the market situation and price developments. Producers may then be given the opportunity to adapt their activities in accordance with the circumstances. The difficult situation on the milk market globally is a consequence of the fact that supply is currently greater than demand. Therefore, prices of milk are falling. A liberalised market means that prices move as demand and supply change. This means that production is stimulated or slowed down depending on the price, so that the market can achieve a better balance. Stocks, public and private, which are increasing at the moment, will gradually be sold on the open market. At the same time, the long-term demand for milk in the world continues to increase, and this means that there may be a good future for companies that are competitive.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-317	Excuse me, Minister, for a moment! I must remind you that the answer read must be consistent with what is given in this House. I've noted several anomalies. Amongst other things, the Government read the last sentence of "Competitive" in which it says "Globally Competitive". I would like to remind you for the future that the answer must be read exactly as it is given to the Members of this House and not with any changes of their own along the way.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-318	Mr President, I would like to We know that excessive consumption of meat and animal products has a negative impact on the environment and the climate. It is an issue that I and the Minister for Rural Development have debated in the House earlier. Let me give you an example. The emissions resulting from the total consumption of meat and milk products in Sweden are roughly equivalent to the total emissions from our 4.4 million passenger cars in Sweden. As far as the emissions of cars are concerned, there are a lot of instruments and decisions to reduce those emissions. But for the consumption of food, and animal species in particular, there are no instruments. We also know that excessive consumption of animal food is bad for public health. This is why the Nordic nutrition recommendations provide for a reduction in meat consumption. The same is true of our Swedish food industry. The World Health Organisation, too, noted a while ago that meat consumption can be carcinogenic and calls for a reduction in meat consumption. That is why I think that the European Commission's support package of hundreds of millions of euros for European food businesses is so destructive. It is a question of promoting increased consumption of agricultural products, in particular increased consumption of meat and milk here in Europe. In particular, many millions of euros are being invested in increasing exports of products to other countries. As far as animal exports to other countries are concerned, China is one of the countries that the EU has pointed out where it wants to increase exports of meat and milk in particular. We know from the past that China and the whole of South-East Asia eat much more vegetables and less meat. It's a good diet. This leads to reduced emissions and better public health. What the EU is now doing, with the support of our tax money, is trying to get the Chinese to consume more meat and more milk. Why? Why does the Swedish Government back up these proposals? Why, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, will the Chinese increase their consumption of meat and milk? Wouldn't it be good if we in Sweden and the West lived a little more like the Chinese and reduced our meat consumption? I am not getting a clear answer from you, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, about the European meat institute to be set up. It is clear that the animal industry can set up a European meat institute if they want to, but why should it be financed from public funds? Is it really something that the Swedish Government supports, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht? I would also like to ask in general terms: why should we spend more money on what we know pollutes our planet and impairs public health? Instead, should we not see the current crisis in the agricultural sector as an opportunity – an opportunity to switch to more sustainable agriculture and more production of sustainable food? That is where the money should go, not to what pollutes and impairs public health. Wouldn't the Minister agree?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-327	Mr President, I would like to One of the foods that we are discussing with Jens Holm's interpellation is the milk. The milk sector and the milk market underwent quite a change last year with the abolition of the milk quota in the European Union. To put it in perspective: in the period without milk quotas last year, from 1 April to 30 November, the increase in EU milk production was 3.2 million tonnes. This represents an increase of approximately 3.3 per cent compared to the same period in 2014. As a result, in eight months the EU weighed up 100 million tonnes of milk. During the same period, according to EU statistics, Swedish milk weighing decreased by 0.2 per cent. Looking at which countries benefit from the abolition of milk quotas, it can be seen that these are the countries in the north-west of the EU. Large producers such as Germany, the UK, the Netherlands and Poland are increasing their production significantly. But even smaller producer countries such as Ireland, Belgium and Denmark are increasing their production. In figures, Ireland increased its output by almost 16 per cent, Belgium by over 10 per cent and the Netherlands by 9 per cent between April and November. With international pressure on prices, the EU's buying-in of milk and milk powder has become a more interesting alternative for dairies. In 2015, 40 000 tonnes of skimmed milk powder, SMP, were sold for intervention and purchase. In January this year, the EU will open a new intervention commitment until September of a maximum of 109 000 tonnes. Most, or at least half, of the increase in milk production last year goes directly to intervention stocks. The EU supports private storage of milk powder. In 2015, over 50 000 tonnes of SMP were stored. In 2016, it has been stored over 10 000 tonnes in private storage. I would like to say that it is doubtful whether it is in the direction of the key that the line entered is favourable for Swedish milk production. As we know, it takes a long time to change milk production. It may well be hard to call this an EU milk bubble, but it is something like that, and it can have far-reaching consequences. There are two things that the Minister for Rural Development highlights in his interpellation response that I find laudable: I think that the government is right out when we talk about market-oriented solutions that need to be put in place, and the proposed measures need to be taken within the EU's ordinary budget. It is crucial that this is done within the budget. Even if we advocate market-oriented solutions and even if we say it should be within the EU's ordinary budget, we now see that production is increasing, and it is increasing much faster than demand. So the problem grows in magnitude. Although one can see in a slightly longer time horizon that demand in the world is increasing, the large surpluses that Jens Holm mentions do not seem to be able to be managed here and now. You talk about how they can be handled, but it feels a bit insurmountable to be able to get an answer to when they can be handled. When I see the figures for increased production and reduced demand, it seems that the time when we get rid of the large stocks is well behind the end of the rural minister's term of office. I find that worrying.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-334	Mr President, I would like to I apologise for the fact that the word is not on my printout. It's fallen away for some reason. It would, of course, have been there, because that is the answer that has come to this House. I have no explanation for this. Excuse me! Sweden has been a strong driver of market orientation within the common agricultural policy. We have been doing this for a long time since we joined the Community. We have long experience, and we know that extensive market regulation leads to production against aid rather than production against the market. I agree with Jens Holm that we must have the principles that guide policy towards more market-oriented solutions. However, I am aware that the situation of dairy farmers is very challenging. There has been a long-term fall in milk prices globally due to overproduction but also due to imbalances in the world market in terms of imports into China and Russia, as this has been greatly reduced. We have a responsibility, and I have it as the responsible minister for these areas, to take action to find problematic areas where we can bridge this time. After all, all the assessors show that an increase in the global population will also mean an increase in demand for this type of product. The assessment that the experts are making now is that by the end of 2016 or 2017, prices may start moving up, but unfortunately not yet. Last autumn it was decided to bring in national envelopes to support Europe's dairy farmers. Sweden financed this with 100 percent, and the aid that went directly to Swedish dairy farmers totaled 155 million. In the discussions on what measures are now to be taken to alleviate the crisis, there are many different approaches. Sweden's position is that we will work to make early advance payments in both the single payment and rural programme support. We will also work much more with export promotion, research and development. We will find risk management systems and use financial instruments to minimize risks. Sweden has worked intensively with export promotion measures, which have produced results. We have, among other things, entered 10 million for the export approval that the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency have. We have gone in with 3 million for a permanent food attaché in Beijing. We've been working on promotional trips. This has resulted in a number of approvals for products in China, Hong Kong and Japan, and there will be more things. It's about getting into new markets. You raise the volume, but that's not the way a price works. It would not drive production towards support, but this is more of being able to find a balance in the margin volumes that come. In addition, intervention prices are extremely low – significantly lower than they were the last time intervention was introduced.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-341	Mr President, I would like to I don't really think I got all my questions answered. My basic question is: should we subsidise activities that we know lead to the production of things that increase greenhouse gas emissions and reduce public health by means of common funds, that is, with Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht's, mine and others' tax money? Now I do not mean that everyone has to stop consuming meat, but I believe that in the rich part of the world we consume too much meat. We should eat less meat. We should eat something like China and South-East Asia, namely much more vegetable and less animal species. Now the EU is obviously trying, backed up by Sweden, to make the rest of the world live in exactly the same way as we do. That, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, I do not think is sustainable. It's not working for the planet. Then it boils over. In addition, we will have millions of new cases of cancer and other serious public health-related diseases. If you look at the European Commission's proposed work programme to increase the consumption of agricultural products, you can clearly see that 70% of the money you bring in should go to the promotion of exports. Care should be taken to ensure that people in other countries consume more, especially milk and meat. The first country mentioned on this list is China. They also talk about Latin America and Southeast Asia and also about Japan and the USA. I would like to repeat my question to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht: Does the Swedish Government really think that we should spend money on getting the Chinese to eat more of animal food? I would like the Minister to release the script and simply answer what he thinks on that question, because it is not that complicated. And does the Minister think that we should build a European meat institute by common means? As I said before, let the industry build one if you want to do it. But shall we go in with common money and do so? It is money that could instead be used to finance increased production of sustainable food, organic food and so on. I would also like to ask about the surplus, which the Minister mentions in his reply, which is created when the EU enters and buys large stocks of butter, milk, meat and so on. The Minister says this surplus will be sold on the open market. But how will it work, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, when there is no one on the market who wants to buy it? Is it not imminent that it will be just as it has been in the past when large stocks are built up, namely dumping surpluses in other countries and destroying their ability to build up sustainable food production? Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that we have a major problem in Sweden today. We produce only half of the food consumed in the country. We should produce far more. We should have a goal of being able to produce the vast majority of the food consumed. I believe that this strategy, with a unilateral focus on exports, exports and exports, is completely wrong. I wish we could have a strategy based essentially on producing sustainable food for the domestic market instead of spending a lot of money on exports. The Minister will be happy to answer.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-350	Mr President, I would like to Swedish agriculture and food production are an important part of the Swedish economy. In addition to the importance for jobs and growth, agriculture and industry are essential for a vibrant rural environment. Add also the need to move in line with agriculture and industry in order to achieve several important environmental quality objectives. Unfortunately, many farmers are forced, due to a tough economic situation, to phase out operations that have been carried out for quite a long time. For example, 77 per cent of Swedish dairy businesses have closed down since 1995. Food production is moved or discontinued as a result of the fact that the possibility of operating here is deemed to be worse than elsewhere, despite the fact that we have quite good natural conditions for food production in Sweden. Of course, this should not be the case, but for a long time politics has been a little more a part of the problem rather than a part of the solution. Political decisions have been allowed to a rather large extent to create or aggravate problems through Swedish special rules, high taxes and a fairly extensive regulatory burden. All in all, this means far greater costs for Swedish farmers and food businesses, and quite apart from what is happening in the rest of the European Union, it is clear that we need to reverse this trend. In order to make a final contribution to the Minister while he is in this House, I would like to say that, in addition to market-oriented solutions and in addition to the inclusion of EU intervention within the EU budget, it is high time to present a concrete strategy for improving competitiveness. Of course I'm talking about the food strategy. It is high time, and expectations are then. Quite apart from what is happening in Europe, the food strategy is an important tool, and we look forward to it very much.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-355	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs. It is good that we have debates about the milk crisis in the Swedish Parliament and it is great that there has been a question about this. It is important that we discuss this, because it is something that affects a lot in our country. We learned this week that Arla will lower the price further by about 10 cents. The price is now down to a bottom level of SEK 2.44 from 1 May. This is going to affect a lot. It was bad before the reduction for many dairy producers, and after 1 May it gets worse. The Minister was in on the issue of quotas and how it affects Europe. We know that some countries are producing a lot more milk right now. Someone referred to Ireland as an example here. That's exactly how it is. There's almost an overproduction there. In Sweden, on the other hand, production has decreased quite substantially. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is about when quotas were removed. What was the rural minister thinking? I know there is something that was decided long before, before this government and all, but still: what does the Minister think about this that quotas disappeared and that milk prices are now down at these levels? Five dairy farmers quit every week. It was so before, of course, and you usually blame the previous government, and so it may be, but now you are the minister, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. What do you think about this? If this continues, it will have enormous consequences for our country. We are used to seeing grazing animals and to the fact that there is milk production in our country, but we will actually have to be prepared that this is not the case in the future. Because of the current crisis, many will close. You hear now that even more will close this fall, because if it will continue to be this price it won't work. So my questions to the Minister are: how does the Minister view what happened when quotas disappeared? What further measures can the government take? How is the discussion going among ministers on how to deal with this even better?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-361	Mr President, I would like to I have nothing against people eating less meat and, above all, eating less foreign meat for the benefit of Swedish meat, because Swedish meat is much more climate-smart. I don't mind working so we can export a more climate-smart product. We have also received the type of authorisation that I mentioned in my speech in Hong Kong, China. The small country of Sweden was once one of Europe's poorest countries – we don't have to go back more than 100 years. Then we didn't have much exports. It was the exports that made it possible for us to build well-being Sweden. It is therefore important that we are active with free trade agreements and work systematically with exports. The market observatory is intended to collect information on prices and production and to give a better grasp of the market. This means that we can handle our exports better, and that is good for Sweden. Then there is great pressure on the Commission to take measures to alleviate the crisis that is not market-oriented. It is clear that Sweden is opposed to such measures. We have long held the common position that agricultural policy must be more market-oriented. The intervention prices now at milk prices are so extremely low that no one can produce against them. No one is producing against them – believe me, that's it. They are therefore about 2 crowns liter. It is not a country that can produce against it, it is a question of evening out the marginal effects. What we in Sweden have to work for, as I have mentioned, is much more market-oriented solutions. We need to find new markets. We need more export approvals. We must work to remove the existing tariff barriers. The voluntary restrictions we also voted in favour of are not something that takes any money from the EU budget, but is a cost-neutral thing. If countries want to limit their production voluntarily, it is up to them. With regard to quotas, which Magnus Oscarsson touched on, those decisions were taken more than ten years ago in broad agreement. It has not been a matter of tearing up those decisions during the time I have been in charge. Not at any Council of Ministers has it been mentioned that they should be torn up. The long-term importance is that we get the food strategy in place. I am very pleased that all parties are now supporting the need for a food strategy, and I hope that we can adopt it in broad agreement. As I have mentioned before, the proposal deals with a long-term food strategy, and with it the government will also present a proposal for an action programme where there are various measures to achieve the objectives of the strategy. The action programmes can of course be different from time to time depending on which government is in power, but a long-term strategy I really hope that we can adopt jointly – without party prestige.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-368	Mr President, I would like to Some may think that a political debate on increasing milk and meat subsidies – in addition, with money coming from the EU – may sound incredibly complicated and rather nerdy, as is usually said. However, I think this is an important matter of principle. When we stand and solemnly say that we must do everything we can to reduce our emissions and ensure that we live healthier lives and that every penny really goes in the right direction and helps to achieve our important environmental objectives, I do not think it holds out that the European Union is putting forward a strategy of increased subsidies with the aim of increasing the consumption of animal species – in particular meat and milk products. With regard to the market observatory for meat, which the Minister for Rural Affairs is talking about, I would like to emphasise once again the following: if the industry wants to create a European meat institute, I welcome it. Do it! But why, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, should we go in with our tax money and finance it? Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht should be able to answer that. Shall we do it, yes or no? I think the issue is important, because it is a crossroads. Should we spend money on continuing and doing more of what we have been doing all along, namely consuming more of animal species – which we know leads to increased emissions and reduced public health? Or should we instead make sure that more of our common resources are spent on what turns into the production of sustainable food, more of vegetarian food and more of organic food? That's where we should invest the money, not the old one. What does the Minister say about that?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-371	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Every four years, there are choices, which we all know. We usually talk about a living countryside. That is something we all talk about. We also know that living rural areas mean that there are companies. Often many rural businesses have to do with agriculture, and many of those entrepreneurs are dairy farmers. We know that five dairy farmers end every week, and now that the price is down to 2.44, we know that many will leave the industry further this autumn. It is a crisis that one might say has not been so deep ever in our country. I was going to ask the Minister how low he and the government think the milk price can be. It's down to 2.44 now, which is bottom levels. At the same time, it is said that it can go down further in the future. My question is whether there are talks with parties. We know that the high-level meeting the Minister had contained different pieces. There were talks with dairies, farmers, banks and other actors, business and more. Is it still the case that we have discussions about how to save Swedish milk production? That is the main issue. If the current crisis continues, we will not have many dairy farmers left in our country.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-374	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with Magnus Oscarsson's question about how low the price can be. In a market economy, which we have, I do not think politicians should say that the price should be this or that. Instead, it is governed by the market – by supply and demand – whether we are talking about milk, cars, chairs or tables. A market economy works that way. I hope Magnus Oscarsson doesn't want an economy where politics decides those parts. Jens Holm talked about organic food. It is very important that we increase the production of organic food, and that is why this government has gone in with 200 million more in the Rural Programme – to stimulate more organic food. We have huge imports of it, and we are in fact in a position to produce organic food ourselves to a much greater extent. This is, of course, consumer driven; demand increased 38 per cent in 2014 and 39 per cent in 2015, so here is a demand. I believe in Swedish agriculture, and I believe in Swedish milk production. It is a difficult moment right now, but population and prosperity are expected to increase. This means that the products will be requested. It is now a matter of finding mechanisms to alleviate the crisis, and I still believe that these are market solutions we must have, not producing against support. It is not a long-term solution. As far as the market observatory is concerned, it is in no way detrimental to the market. Instead, it can increase transparency in the market for small and large players and for small countries. It also facilitates exports. So that is something I welcome. I will continue to push for even more market-oriented solutions to these issues. Thank you for a good debate!
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-379	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me why the government's planned proposal on wild boar and wild game injuries has not yet been submitted to Parliament and when I intend to present the bill. In addition, Johan Hultberg has asked what proposed measures I intend to propose to reduce the damage caused by wild boars. Finally, Johan Hultberg has asked whether I stand by the view that hunters should not be given the opportunity to sell wild boar meat, to a limited extent, directly to the consumer. The hunting investigation submitted a sub-report Wild boar and game damage – on feeding, camera surveillance and the hunting rights of tenants (SOU 2014:54). The report has been referred and the views of the consultative bodies have called for further consideration. Some issues have had to be analysed in greater depth. For this reason, additional documentation has been produced by the Government Office, which has been referred during the autumn and spring. We now expect to be able to leave a bill before the summer. I therefore expect that we will have rules for feeding as a tool for reducing the damage caused by wild boars. The government announced work on a national food strategy in the 2015 budget bill. The starting point of the work on the food strategy is that there is a great potential in Swedish food production and downstream. Here the government sees that game meat has the potential to meet increased demand. Wild meat is a natural raw material that is also an appreciated raw material for individuals and restaurateurs. However, wild boar meat differs from other game meat by allowing wild boars to carry trichinae and by being difficult to slaughter in a hygienic way. Wild boar hunting also occurs during hot seasons, which requires cold storage of the bodies while waiting for answers to the Trichinella samples. In addition, a high incidence of the parasite Toxoplasma gondi has recently been discovered in wild boars by researchers at SLU. Proposals for simplified sale of wild boar meat have been put forward. However, the practical and economic consequences of such a sales system proved to be such that the proposal was not supported to be taken forward – not even by the hunters themselves. Simplified sales were also not considered to contribute to reducing the number of wild boars. For there to be a demand for wild boar meat, handling must be such that consumer confidence in the meat is not damaged. For the time being, the assessment is that wild game handling establishments have the best capacity to market wild boar meat safely.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-385	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Creating a better functioning wild boar management is extremely important. We see that the tribe has grown and is still growing very fast in Sweden, that the distribution is increasing and that the wild boars are today in more and more places in our country. On behalf of the Alliance, we did a great deal in this area during our eight years of government. Among other things, reforms were made in order to facilitate hunting and to increase what is perhaps most important in order to create better governance, namely cooperation. We also took initiatives to try to improve outlets in various ways. For example, from concrete measures implemented, fixed lighting can now be used at the baiting site. The wild boars are nocturnal, and that measure simply made hunting easier but also safer. We have also made it easier to obtain a permit for image amplifiers in your weapon. There are two changes which are concrete and which are about creating an effective and safe hunt, Mr President. After all, that is not enough, and that is the background to my having put this interpellation and to the fact that I have also had earlier interpellation debates with the Minister for Rural Development on this subject. More needs to be done, because the damage is very large, not least in my own county and in southern Sweden. There we see that wild boars cause significant damage to agriculture but also many traffic accidents and that a lot of homeowners see their lawns and gardens raised. Unfortunately, I note that in the reply the Minister did not really give very many examples of concrete measures that he and the government are preparing to reduce the problems of wild boar damage and to create better functioning management. The Minister referred to the preparation in progress and that a bill is on its way. The Minister also highlighted the food strategy. The only more concrete measure was feeding rules. We will have to wait and see, Mr President, if there are proposals that are in the right direction. But feeding is a problem, so I'm cautiously optimistic about that part. It is good that the Minister says that game meat is an appreciated raw material that we shall use in the forthcoming food strategy. But, of course, Mr President, I must ask the Minister how? How should game meat be included in the strategy? Unfortunately, I note that the food strategy is also delayed, as is the proposal on wild boar and game damage. Perhaps it is the difficulty of the government parties to cooperate that has made the so-called cooperation government more of a late government. I regret that this is taking so long, but I very much hope that the food strategy will be a really important tool in the work to strengthen Swedish agricultural competitiveness but also in order to promote game meat in a good way, and not least wild boar meat. My specific question to the Minister in this respect is: how should game meat be included in the strategy? A major shortcoming today, Mr President, is that the knowledge of game meat is low. It is a problem that needs to be addressed. Is there anything that could be part of the planned food strategy?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-395	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Johan Hultberg that it is a major problem, not least for agriculture, that we have a wild boar strain that in some places goes very hard on the crops. Therefore, clear feeding rules are needed to reduce these injuries, and they will be reflected in the bill that we are presenting to Parliament. Then we have generous hunting rules, because for most of the year you can hunt wild boar. It makes it easier in many different ways to have lighting when hunting, and after applying to the county administrative board you can use electronic image amplifiers. There are also a number of approved catch nets for yearlings. You can also hunt for protection all year round if wild boar causes damage to crops and crops. During the hunting year 2014 – 2015 90 000 wild boars were shot, which is plus 7 percent compared to the previous year, so there have actually been much more shot. Today we have a population of about 200 000. As you were aware, the food strategy will affect game meat, not only wild boar but also an appreciated raw material from many other species. It usually ends up in hunters' freezers and does not come out to consumers. This is, of course, a matter of information, because it is important to be able to handle this food properly and safely. We have game-handling facilities. It is companies that have invested in facilities to take care of this. I see that there are good opportunities for these companies to commercialise even wild boar meat, and we should not pull the carpet away from their opportunities.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-400	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister highlights and welcomes the measures taken by the Alliance Government to facilitate and create a better and more effective hunt. But as I said, that is not enough. The Minister was aware that the major challenge and the most important thing we have to do is to ensure that more meat reaches the market and that the meat does not get stuck in the hunters' freezers. Many times hunters hunt boars until their own box is full. When the box is full, they stop hunting because by law they are forbidden to sell meat on a small scale to their neighbour or colleague. Why are they? Because, as the Minister explained, there may be trichinae in the flesh. Mr President, I would like to With the need to test meat for Trichinella and to have basic knowledge and training in food management, hygiene and other matters, it would be perfectly reasonable to sell wild boar meat to a limited extent. I don't believe in any way that it would put away the bones of the game-handling facilities. On the contrary, I believe that if more consumers had been able to taste wild boar meat and become aware of this fine raw material, the business of game handling establishments would have improved and the interest in hunting wild boars would have increased. I regret that the Minister rejects my proposal on how to create more outlets and demand for wild boar meat. I note that the Minister also rejects a proposal that is extremely requested by the Swedish Hunting Corps, and I regret that. What does the Minister propose instead? Is the answer really nothing? What proposals does the Minister have to make easier for game handling facilities or to make the administration of Trichinella sampling even easier? It is already simple, and the cost is not very high – but it is certainly possible to do more. The minister and the government are guilty of the answer. It dismisses the proposals that I and others have made. But you don't come up with so many, about a few, your own suggestions and ideas. Mr President, I would like to When discussing food safety and the issue of Trichinella samples, it is important to ask ourselves whether current rules and bureaucracy are reasonable. Is it proportionate to the risk involved? I don't think so. The minister said last year 90,000 boars were shot. Does he know how many of them carried Trichinellas? How many of the animals that were shot found Trichinella?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-408	Mr President, I would like to The food strategy will address a great deal about food safety. Food is health, and it is very important that we have safe food. We see what happens when things like that are cheated. We will not, therefore, be compromising food safety. The fact that the food strategy is delayed by a few months is regrettable. If the Alliance government had listened to the committee movements that were raised in Parliament three years ago, it would have been in place a long time ago. But you dismissed them, so you have to take some responsibility yourself. I've been hunting and hunting boars. They are hard to hunt, and harder than any other game to slaughter and take care of. They are usually hunted during a warm period, and pending trichinae samples, the meat must be in a cold room. Wild boars are therefore not as manageable as many other game, and therefore it is important that we have order and game handling facilities. As I said, it is companies that have invested in order to be able to take care of this. We're not gonna pull the carpet away from them. Hultberg asked how many have been affected by Trichinella. In 2012, five were tested positively. It's not many, but it can have devastating consequences. The other year a wild boar was shot in Småland, which carried 2,000 larvae per gram of meat. It is estimated that 50 trichinal larvae are enough to infect a human. Had this ended up in a wild boar sausage, it could have had devastating consequences. This is nothing to play with and to be careless with, but we must ensure that the meat that comes to consumers is safe. Otherwise, it can also make other game meat in a bad light.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-413	Mr President, I would like to Last year, there was an animal out of 90 000 carrying trichinae. So there is a 0.00001 percent risk that the animal carries trichinae. But that risk should not be ignored, because it is serious to be infected by Trichinella. I fully share the Minister's view that we must safeguard food safety. This is, to use the Minister's words, nothing to play with and joke with. The proposal I have put forward is not about not testing for Trichinella. It's about the hunter, just like the hunter does on meat for his own consumption, having to promise to do a trichina test, send it on analysis, get the results by phone – usually via text messages – and then to a small extent sell the meat on. The major basic problem of increasing the hunting of wild boars and better management is precisely the outlets. When I meet hunters, landowners and others who want to develop a better functioning wild boar management, that question always comes back. It's too complicated to sell the meat. I note that the Minister did not have any answers as to how he and the Government would like to make it easier for the game-handling facilities. For example, the Alliance made reductions in slaughterhouse fees. Are lower charges a way forward for the Minister? What concrete measures are proposed? The Alliance's Food Country Sweden laid a good foundation for the food strategy it is now working on. The Alliance has repeatedly asked concrete questions about the food strategy, but the government's response is missing. We are now left out of that process, and I regret that.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-419	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Alliance recognises that Sweden needs a food strategy. I hope that we can adopt this strategy jointly in Parliament with a heavy club battle by the President and without party political prestige. We may have different action plans to achieve such a strategy depending on which government is in power at the time. In the strategy, food, health and food safety will weigh heavily. I look forward to putting a bill on Parliament's table and order the feeding, which has not been good, and also get the handling of wild boar meat in order. It must be handled in game-handling facilities, which have the knowledge to do so properly. Thank you for a good debate!
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-422	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström has asked me whether I believe, without going into the individual case under examination, that it is reasonable in this way to restrict ownership and the possibility of rational agriculture. Unless Daniel Bäckström wonders if I intend to take any action. According to 2 Chapter. Paragraph 3 of the Environmental Code requires all persons who carry out or intend to carry out an activity or take action to carry out the protective measures, to comply with the restrictions and to take the precautions necessary to prevent, prevent and prevent harm to human health and the environment. The obligation applies to everyone and is valid under Chapter 2. Paragraph 7 to the extent that it cannot be considered unreasonable to comply with them. Permissible activities include larger livestock holdings with bovine animals, pigs and poultry. An assessment of what the individual needs to do in order for the operation to be conducted shall be made in connection with a permit review. For the purposes of the authorisation testing of animal husbandry, the conditions may be the storage and spread of manure if necessary with regard to human health or the environment. If necessary and if so, what conditions should be imposed is something that must be decided on a case-by-case basis and on the basis of local circumstances. For the farmer there is the possibility to appeal the authorisation decision, its design and individual conditions to the Land and Environment Court. It is not up to me as a rural minister to comment on whether one or more conditions in a permit decision are reasonable.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-426	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am updating the intersection entirely on the basis of a current case at home in Värmland, where an agricultural entrepreneur in Säffle develops its business and has submitted an application to allow the business to develop and grow significantly. The case itself should not be discussed, but it is about approaches that are illustrated in the exercise of authority linked to the conditions and conditions given in the permit. It is increasingly noticeable how different interests should be balanced, and in this case it has been clearly indicated against the individual farmer when it comes to limiting the possibility of spreading manure during weekends and days before the weekend. Nurturing the soil and growing crops is a prerequisite for active agriculture and the development of its activities. It is also an important prerequisite for being able to carry out the activities for as short a time as possible, taking into account the local weather conditions prevailing at the moment. It is not always through bureaucracy and the exercise of authority that the most appropriate solutions are found in practice. In this case, it is very clear. It's about a living countryside. It is about what conditions you give and how you can provide the conditions for strengthening the business environment for the individual farmer and developing agriculture. It is a matter of regulatory simplification rather than a regulatory problem. The activities can be developed to 6 800 places for slaughter pigs and a maximum of 800 places for sows. The amount of manure is estimated at 28,000 cubics, a little bit over. This is a large area of distribution which is often far from being built and which shows great consideration for the neighbours and the affected people who are close to the land. The authorisation is approved, but this particular condition has changed compared to the previous one. The distribution of organic agents is now regulated so that it can take place during as few and concentrated periods as possible. We are in the middle of spring use in large parts of the country. Some have done it, some are working right now and some are waiting for the right conditions. Then every day is extremely important. It must be the right weather. The individual has the opportunity to apply for exemption or exemption from the municipality, but then there will be an annual review every year and bureaucracy. It would have been better instead to have what it was before for the individual, namely that the spreading of manure may not take place the day before or during the midsummer weekend, that spreading during Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays may only take place exceptionally and that the time of spreading should be chosen so that odour disturbances are minimised. This is now being tested, and it is an interesting matter. It is also interesting that no neighbors have complained, but they support the individual farmer out on Värmlandsnäs. They do not understand the problem, but think that it is necessary to spread manure in order to be able to farm.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-435	Mr President, I would like to It is the environmental code that forms the basis of Swedish environmental legislation. It aims to promote sustainable development and ensure a healthy and good environment for those of us who live now but also in the future. The environmental code has different regulations that affect us all in different ways, both as entrepreneurs and as individuals. It sets the rules of the game for what consideration we must take in the conduct of activities and what measures we must take in carrying out activities that can affect both human health and the environment. This applies regardless of whether the activity is small or large, and everything from agriculture to the mine in Kiruna and everything in between is affected by this. My approach to farmers, especially in Sweden, is that we are very aware of how their activities affect the environment. I know that they are taking a wide range of measures to reduce the environmental impact of their activities. Swedish food production is at the forefront of environmental work. In many cases, we in Sweden are actually the world leader in food production and environmental thinking. We have many farmers today who have high ambitions in terms of developing their business and taking the necessary environmental considerations while, of course, working to strengthen the profitability of their company. I hope that farmers can present their views and arguments in a good way in the court proceedings that are taking place. But it is not something that I as a minister can go into at all, and I think that Daniel Bäckström has a full understanding of that.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-440	Mr President, I would like to It is about what regulations Sweden should have for this type of business and how we can best create conditions for rural areas and their entrepreneurship to develop. Farming is an essential and important part of this. We often come back to the rural strategy, which is coming. Then the focus of the application and development of practices by the authorities is extremely important and fundamental in order to have the best and basic conditions for the individual as possible. We can see that, with regard to official decisions, there is a need to suspend fertilisation activities, which in some cases may be up to four to five days depending on the state of the holidays in May. For example, it would not be appropriate to drive manure out on May 1 even if it is perfect weather conditions. After two days a new start is required to get the manure well properly adapted, and this requires extra hours and also affects the profitability of entrepreneurship. The interesting thing about this situation is that the municipality supports and sees the importance of the company's ability to develop its activities and how important it is for a living countryside and that it provides the conditions when one feels that the individual farmer applies a good practical assessment of when and how fertilisation should be done. In the long run, there may be increased regulation in several parts of the country. That is what politics must do and look at. What regulations, what conditions and what commitment does the Riksdag show, but also the government in this type of matter in a situation when rural enterprise, in a situation where we need to increase our food supply in Sweden? As the Minister for Rural Development often refers to, we need to provide the conditions for increasing production. Then every part is important. The overall picture is that there is an enormous amount of application that needs to be reviewed, simplified and clarified, so that responsibility is placed in the right place, as locally as possible. My question is: are there any reflections linked to the situation described? How does the Minister see that this can happen in practice, when enormous restrictions are imposed over a short period of time, which is an important part of a farm, where a lot of manure is going out and many hectares are going to be handled, many times several kilometres from the affected neighbours? Are there any reflections from the government representative on this matter aimed at providing the conditions for developing rural entrepreneurship and ensuring that there are the right conditions for the long term?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-446	Mr President, I would like to I cannot comment on the individual case. The questions put to me by Daniel Bäckström make it very difficult for me to answer. In general, I understand the dilemma of agriculture constantly struggling with profitability. These are extremely important companies not least for Swedish rural areas, important companies for our food industry. In fact, 70% of our food and beverage industry receives its raw materials from Swedish primary production. Even industrial jobs would disappear if agricultural enterprises were to disappear. It affects very much in our society. The ambition you mention, to increase production, is exactly what we want with the food strategy. When it comes to the licensing obligations, which are part of the environmental review, it is primarily the Minister for Climate and the Environment who is responsible for the issues within the government. You may possibly ask a more detailed question to the minister responsible about those parts.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-449	Mr President, I would like to On the basis of the given answer and also the reflections in the debate, measures – or how to take the matter further – are not what the Minister for Rural Development presents. Referring to a colleague is a good thing. It is important that these issues are highlighted by several responsible ministers, for this is a matter of continuing discussion, not least from the local entrepreneurial perspective, where interests must interact in the best way and where the exercise of authority must provide the conditions and clarity so that it becomes practicable. We've lived a long time with manure smelling. We've lived a long time with machines noisy. We have lived for a long time with the sound having behavioral patterns that affect the environment. But it is part of the natural life of the countryside. People who live and work in those areas are well aware that there are certain moments during the year that need to be changed – you need to drive out manure and also do it during the days that are best based on the nitrogen situation, the spreading effect, the value of the energy for the nutrients going down the slope and so on. Farmers know this best. It is not the Authority that is aware of the practical conditions in which to optimise its farming activity in the best possible way. At this point, it is about hard-working, skilled agricultural entrepreneurs who are and will be a backbone of Swedish rural development. Then it is our task to provide the best conditions that are clear and easy to understand but also provide practical conditions for operating the business optimally and be able to spread manure when the situation is based on the weather.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-453	Mr President, I would like to I can't go into any actions linked to an individual case-- it's very difficult. With what Daniel Bäckström constantly presents based on the individual case, it is very difficult and risky for a minister to comment. Generally speaking, I believe in Swedish agriculture. We have good conditions. I also want to simplify Swedish agriculture, continue the simplification journey that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has made in such a commendable way and reduce the administration of agriculture without increasing the risk to our environment and health. We have great opportunities in Sweden to increase our production, not least in primary production and agriculture. The fact that we have legislation that is designed with stronger demands on how to operate and that legislation can be perceived as an obstacle may be correct. There may also be conflict of interests. It is important that different aspects of an issue can be highlighted when such matters are brought to the fore and that it can be seen from different points of view and be assessed impartially. Nevertheless, I believe that we have a good legal system to deal with different conflicts of interests, and it is important that these issues are examined. I also very much hope that farmers will experience that in court proceedings they are given the opportunity to present their arguments in a good way.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-457	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström has asked the Minister for Home Affairs how long the Government estimates that food security will be managed with current preparedness if transport to the country is hindered and strategically important ports are blocked in a crisis situation. It also asks what measures the Government considers necessary to ensure access to food throughout the country in the event of crises that far exceed the individual's emergency responsibility in 72 hours. A further question is asked as to what further initiatives the Government will take to reduce the vulnerability of crisis situations that threaten food security. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. First of all, I would like to agree with Mr Bäckström that this is an important area. We have a changed security policy threat, and our dependence on security of supply is increasing. The first question, however, is tricky and depends on what season we have and which parts of the country are hindered. A complete blockade is assessed by defence experts and responsible authorities as unlikely and not included in the risk and vulnerability analyses carried out annually by the security authorities. On the other hand, it is likely that parts of the country may have problems with the supply due to serious social disturbance, for example in the form of a natural accident or that targeted attacks prevent the supply of supplies. With the end of the Cold War and Sweden's entry into the European Union, it was estimated that food supply can be secured through free trade within the EU and abroad and through the responsibility of the large food chains. Therefore, regulations were removed that set out forms or structures for a food supply/preparedness storage in crisis or under increased preparedness. Trust was also placed in the EU solidarity clause, which states that in the event of a disaster or terrorist attack, Member States will help others. That assessment is still valid. However, it is not relevant to consider food security only as an isolated phenomenon. Effective food supply depends on inputs such as vehicle fuel and fertilisers, processing industry, storage, distribution routes, grocery trade, electricity and the possibility of buying goods with cash or cards. Therefore, it is not only the availability of food that is important. The second question concerns the measures needed to ensure access to food throughout the country in the event of crises that far exceed the individual's responsibility for preparedness in 72 hours. The individual should be prepared to cope with his or her own livelihood and security. For example, it may be a matter of having supplies at home. The Finnish Food Authority has a national overall responsibility for coordinating crisis and contingency planning for food security in the post-primary and drinking water supply. The Swedish Food Safety Agency has a private public consultation group for ongoing discussions on collaboration, safety, storage, distribution and more with companies, drinking water producers, municipalities and other stakeholders. The Swedish Food Safety Agency may also make provision for precautions in order to prevent and remedy the harmful effects of sabotage or other harmful effects that may affect Sweden's food supply, including drinking water. Finally, it asks what further initiatives will be taken to reduce the vulnerability of crisis situations that threaten food security. The Government announced in the 2015 budget proposal the work on a national food strategy. The starting point for the work on the food strategy is that there is a great potential in Swedish food production and downstream. The aim of the work is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and the profitability of food production while achieving the relevant national environmental objectives. Increased food production in Sweden leads to better conditions for a good national supply readiness. Sweden's own production of food is of course important for our ability to supply both in crisis and under increased preparedness. The Government intends to come back to the formulation of objectives within the framework of the Food Strategy when the bill is placed on Parliament's table. First of all, we need to look at crisis preparedness from a holistic perspective. The government points this out, among other things, in the bill Defence Policy Inr Identification – Sweden's Defence 2016– 2020( 2014/15:109). What is stated in the bill is that analysis and planning of how the security of supply and preparedness in food security can be improved in the face of increased preparedness, for example. Missions have been given to the relevant authorities and the government intends to return to the matter. With regard to the Government's ambitions for Swedish security of supply in the event of a situation in which imports of food and supplies are at risk of being restricted, the goal is to continue work to ensure the essential functions of society and protect the civilian population.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-467	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Clearly, we are in a new security policy situation. In our neighborhood, things happen on an ongoing basis. After we took the decision in June on the mission of the total defense in the future and on the defence policy proposal that applies for the next five years, a lot has happened and a lot continues to happen. We are very much an import-dependent country. We are talking about about half or barely half of the food supply being made through Swedish production. And the level of supply is decreasing. This risks becoming a very high safety risk. There are many different crises and events, both military and non-military. Vulnerability has grown as logistics and planning for transport and storage have changed in recent years. This makes it possible to really reflect on how long food-active companies and organisations are able to cope with the food supply to our population. How long before it is empty in the shelves in the shops if the ports would not work and if the transports to Sweden cease to work? Although the Minister considers that a total boycott is unlikely, parts of the transport system can be strongly affected. It will not be long before this becomes a reality. There are some analysts working on this issue. I know that people work between SLU, the Swedish Defence University and others to look at different scenarios. We lack our own stocks of food. We are also dependent, as the Minister pointed out, on inputs to our agriculture. It's about fertilizer, and it's about protein. But it's also about fuel for our machines. How long do we have diesel for the tractors – tractors to be used to produce more food – should there be a break in the transport chain? I think it is positive that the Minister points out that this is an important area, that he also mentions the security situation in our neighbourhood and that it has changed and that this will affect us. Basic for both defence work and total defence planning is that there is food. Food is fuel for the body. Without food, the ability to defend will be seriously affected. I think it is very important that in future comprehensive defence planning comprehensive vulnerability analyses are made in terms of individual level, in terms of system thinking for the whole kingdom, but also in terms of dependence on the outside world. In particular, it is important that the food strategy emphasises this link. We need to have domestic production that guarantees our interests as much as possible. This is an important and important issue of security. It is about us being able to take responsibility together but also to see the whole picture, as the Minister points out. This is a central part of upcoming preparedness work. I would like to continue with the question of what import dependency actually looks like and what the Minister's image is of this. It's a difficult field to describe, but it's affected. I have read an article in which the Minister has stated that our level of self-sufficiency in peacetime has an impact on our ability to supply in crisis. But other factors are also of great importance. It is about infrastructure and a functioning market. The answer draws a conclusion from an analysis made more than 20 years ago. In his response, the government representative stresses the importance of EU entry and the end of the Cold War. Now we are in a completely different security policy situation, and the government must also reflect on that.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-479	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Daniel Bäckström and I agree that we are a highly dependent country of import. But we are not alone. This is a development that we share with many other countries. It has to do with the fact that we are acting a lot across national borders, not least within the European Union. It also means that you may not be as self-sufficient as you were once and as our country was, but you rely on this trade to work. Then our dependence differs from one area to another. We import about 50% of our food. So it is about 50 - 50. But there are also certain foods on which we have surpluses in Sweden, such as cereals. But our neighbour Finland does not. We also have a high level of food - bird meat supply. There are various examples of this. When planning for these different threat images you have different probability scenarios for it. Our expert authorities have not highlighted total lock-off as a current threat. I assume that is the case. I think they're making an accurate assessment. In light of the deteriorating international situation and the increased uncertainty, the government stated in the bill Defence Policy Focus – Sweden's Defence 2016– 2020 that civil defence planning should be resumed. Missions have now been given to the relevant authorities to review and explain what measures need to be taken to protect the civilian population. The first report will take place already in June 2016. There will, of course, be several reports on this important issue. We should not forget that there is also ownership. We have our own responsibility to ensure that we have water and food for at least 72 hours. It is not unreasonable to have one's own responsibility. But there is a need for a lot of information on this. Voluntary organisations, such as the Civil Defence Association, have an important role in working with information about these to individuals. Society can't solve this on its own. There is also ownership.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-486	Mr President, I would like to I agree that it is a shared responsibility, between the public and us as individuals and citizens. But the overall picture is the responsibility of the government and parliament. I put the interpellation to Minister Ygeman. It was handed over to the Minister for Rural Affairs. After all, there are several ministers responsible for these issues. The 72-hour perspective is important. We have recently produced a regulation in the Committee on Defence. It is an updated version with information to the individual if crisis or war should occur. But what happens beyond three weeks when the responsibilities of the Finnish Food Authority have passed today? Who has the coordinated responsibility to ensure that there is an overall picture of how the efforts should be prioritised and what needs to be done in Swedish society when the crisis strikes? Where we stand is not sufficiently coordinated or investigated. The consequences will be enormous if food production stops, if there is no supply of essential raw materials and also incentives for production and if logistics, which is vulnerable, is tested hard. I am extremely keen that what the Minister points out, that this should become an important part of the food strategy, should also become a reality. According to some analysts, society would not be able to cope with a serious crisis today. Milk, bread, and staples would quickly run out of business. The fresh produce was to run out, and the dairy products were to run out in the shops. It would also be a clear lack of fuel after a few days. The public will be exposed. It's about nursing at schools and nursing homes. Priority will be given to certain groups. However, in the longer term, there is no detailed description of the practical consequences. I believe that a developed Swedish agriculture and increased production of food in Sweden are fundamental in order to be able to have stable crisis preparedness in the future. We need to update the picture. It is not acceptable to refer to and analyse the current situation from a different security policy point of view. We fully agree that it is changing and that it has deteriorated significantly in recent years. After the events in Ukraine and in Crimea and after exercises in and around the Baltic Sea and incident reports about them, the picture is different. It takes time to reset. It takes time to create long-term governance but also conditions. Not least in a situation where Swedish agriculture is under severe pressure, we also need to work in an integrated way. This goes hand in hand – our Swedish production and crisis preparedness. I note that there are not many proposals for action in the Minister's response. Reference is made to the strategy. It's important. There are upcoming feedbacks from both MSB, who writes a lot about this, and the Swedish Armed Forces. Our common endeavour must be to raise this as a priority in the planning of total defence.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-496	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous speech, the government has given the authorities the task of highlighting the whole issue, including the issue of responsibility that you raise, Daniel Bäckström. It will be highlighted. We will have the first report as early as June. There will, of course, be a wide range of proposals on how to deal with these issues. It is a very complex issue. It is about much more than just the food itself. It is, as has been said, about transport, IT systems, electricity grids and more. It is also crucial to cooperate, coordinate and plan this. Preparedness depends on a large number of collaborative factors if we are to succeed. I therefore look with confidence at the work undertaken by the Swedish Food Safety Agency within the consultation group called Scale, crisis preparedness for food supply cooperation. The Swedish Agriculture Agency, the Swedish Food Administration, the Swedish Defence University, the police and several authorities, LRF and municipalities have recently launched a project on social security and civil defence in the agricultural sector and food chains. It will be another contribution to improving our food readiness. We have some work ahead of us. Due to the changed security situation, it is a very important area to continue working on. I think we're just at the beginning.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-501	Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, much to be regained and reflected on in the near future. It will be important to follow up the mission, how we will proceed with total defence planning in the next step. Reference is made to the solidarity agreement, the clause between EU countries. One can also turn the question around and consider whether any other country in a crisis needs our help with food, how much can we help with the level of production we have today? And what may be the consequences in the next step if we also find ourselves in a crisis situation? There are many good reflections. However, the Minister also points out one important point: the key to better security of supply lies in a significant increase in food production. That's what I'm really signing up to. It is also about the whole-country perspective. Reducing vulnerability, reducing transport, building more sustainable transport and reducing environmental impact – several values can be included in the overall perspective and efforts to make society more robust and responsible for the long term. It is also important to involve more civilians in taking responsibility and initiative. The food strategy is invoked. It will be interesting to see if the Minister will reflect on how we can reduce import dependency and increase food production in Sweden. This is an important part. Then there are other issues relating to water supply and other aspects that will also be included as important perspectives on food issues. Thank you for your answer. And thank you for the debate.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-507	Mr President, I would like to Our food exports are also part of our self-sufficiency. Today we have a level of self-sufficiency of about 50% and a 10% export. If we raise exports, we actually have a 60% self-sufficiency rate. I believe that the food strategy will also be about increasing our exports. It is really about increasing our total production. Whether production is consumed in the country or outside the country, it is important in many different ways. It is important for growth, for employment and for rural areas, while helping to ensure a self-sufficiency in times of unrest in a better way. Food strategy is an important part of this issue. Here the government has a high level of ambition. The bill that will now be put on the table of Parliament is, of course, about increasing our production. Then there will also be action plans to achieve the objectives. They can look different over time depending on which government has the power and how you want to quickly achieve the goals that I hope you can adopt jointly here in the Swedish Parliament and that in such an important issue you dare put party political prestige in the trash and adopt the goals with a heavy club team. Now we are increasing our food production in Sweden. Thank you for a good debate!
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-512	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell has asked me how I and the government will proceed with the introduction of automatic alcotests of drivers arriving in Swedish ports. The Government decided on 14 April 2016 to commission the Finnish Transport Administration to prepare the introduction of sobriety control facilities, known as alco-bommar, in three to five ports deemed appropriate for this purpose. The task includes identifying and proposing three to five suitable ports based on traffic volume, costs, infrastructure and control situation, and taking into account the prevailing competitive conditions for ports. The mandate also includes the preparation of procurement of sobriety control facilities For the implementation of the mission, the Police Authority, Customs and Coast Guard shall contribute with knowledge and experience based on their respective subject areas, in order to achieve good and effective solutions for a soberer traffic.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-515	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me if I share Minister Kristina Persson's view of the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce's report. She has also asked what measures I have taken and intends to take to limit the increased costs and negative effects that the introduction of identity checks inevitably has on travellers and transporters, but also on society as a whole. Since the temporary ID checks were announced at the end of last year, I have answered a large number of questions from Parliament related to the controls. I have always stressed that the government is well aware of the consequences of the requirement for temporary identity checks when travelling from Denmark for both carriers and travellers. The circumstances underlying the introduction of both temporary border control at internal borders and identification checks are extraordinary. Unfortunately, the fact that the measures introduced have some negative effects in the Öresund region is an inevitable consequence of the situation that has arisen. I have no idea exactly how large the costs are, and the sum can certainly vary according to which assumptions are added to the calculation. A relevant question to ask is also how much costs society would have had if the government had not assumed its responsibilities and taken steps to deal with the large influx of asylum seekers in autumn 2015. In the Spring Economic Bill, the government states that a reasonable starting point is that carriers should be compensated for the increased costs resulting from ID checks. The government is therefore examining the possibility of introducing such compensation, inter alia in relation to EU state aid rules. The question is under preparation in the Government Office. In order to create long-term planning conditions for municipalities and county councils, the government will propose this autumn that SEK 10 billion per year be added to the municipal sector for 2017 and beyond.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-519	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure. However, I still lack answers to my two simple questions, which can be answered only by yes or no. Does the Minister share her colleague Kristina Persson's view of the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce's report – yes or no? If the Minister has missed what Kristina Persson said, I can remind her. Kristina Persson questioned the level of costs of reduced work commuting in the Öresund region as a result of all train delays and any other inconvenience to all types of transport in connection with border controls. According to the Chamber of Commerce, these costs amount to 2.9 million per day. That's 1.5 billion a year, a staggering sum. Those of us in the Committee on Transport can only imagine what fantastic investments this money could have been used for. In the calculation, the Chamber of Commerce has taken account of the shrinking of the labour market. Actors are no longer inclined to apply for jobs in Copenhagen and the surrounding area to the same extent as before when commuting time has increased by several hours per day. It discourages. Regional tourism has also decreased. It is difficult to go and lose yourself in Skåne if you have to change trains and show passports twice. The report expresses concerns that both domestic and international investment will be reduced if the Öresund region is perceived as two distinct regions. This creates concern on both the Swedish and the Danish sides. The Minister can ask his social democratic party friends in Malmö or in the rest of Skåne how hard Skåne has worked for effective integration at Öresund and what is at stake. Population challenges and a reduction in the labour market are the last thing Malmö needs today. I would like to repeat my question to the Minister for Infrastructure: does the Minister think that the estimated costs are realistic – yes or no? Mr President, I would like to In her reply, the Minister says that since the end of last year she has responded to a large number of questions related to border controls. But the fact remains. None of those involved – whether Skånetrafiken, the shipping companies or the Chamber of Commerce – have understood what the government intends to do to reduce the negative effects. To consider oneself to have given an answer is not the same as the recipient having understood the answer. I would be very grateful if the Minister could come up with clear, explicit and precise examples.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-527	Mr President, I would like to When Boriana Åberg writes a very urgent interpellation you can get the impression that Boriana Åberg and the Moderates do not think it is a good idea to have ID controls. That is why it is good to remember that Boriana Åberg and the Moderates were constantly involved in the introduction of the ID controls. Then, at the end of the day, they chose to abstain when decisions were taken in this House, but I, and a great many with me, see this as a little tactical manoeuvre. The truth is that the Moderates and Boriana Åberg want to close the borders completely. But what the debate is about now is the consequences of the ID checks introduced. As the Government also says, they naturally have a negative impact on the development of the Öresund region. But the situation was that there was a very strong increase in the reception of refugees. If this situation had not been dealt with, it is clear that there would have been major consequences for the labour market in all the municipalities in the Öresund region. The report referred to by Boriana Åberg is very interesting. I do not think that the point of that report is whether the figures are accurate or not, but I think it is wise to read that report as if the Öresund integration is of great importance to the business community in Skåne and the business community in Denmark. It will have a major impact if we disrupt this integration and the border commuting that is taking place. To show this is, I believe, the main objective of the report. Then it shows greatness. The report says that it is not a question of exact numbers, but of estimates, but it wants to show the greatness, and the greatness is there. The important thing now is to take steps to resolve the situation that has arisen and to make the most of it. It is clear that it takes two parties to make the best of the controls that exist now. I have seen how the Swedish Government is working very intensively on this, but it also requires the Danish Government to respond in the same way. I hope that this cooperation runs well and that there will be solutions that will make it easier for cross-border commuters. But in the meantime, other measures must be taken. Sweden's Minister for Cooperation Kristina Persson, to whom Boriana Åberg refers in her interpellation, also meets her colleagues in the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Nordic Council held a discussion and debate on these issues last week in Oslo. The Nordic co-operation ministers then explained how they are now intensifying their work on these issues, including by continuously analysing the consequences of the temporary border controls by the Secretary-General of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and how measures can be taken to facilitate border commuting. However, the Border Barriers Council has also been mandated to step up its efforts to remove border barriers and thus to promote the free movement of people and businesses. It is clear that a whole series of things are being done to facilitate border commuting. Controls are a concern, but this government is taking the necessary initiatives to make this as simple as possible.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-533	Mr President, I would like to As Rikard Larsson just stated, there is quite a broad consensus in this House on the need to take extraordinary measures in an extraordinary situation. Unlike the Moderates, however, the government stood up for that insight all the way, also through the decision. I can do that every day of the week. Taking responsibility in a difficult situation is one of the signs that one is government capable that I think the Swedish people appreciate most. Backing out at the last moment and abstaining is not very responsible. The total cost to society of the large asylum migration we had last year amounts to many times more than the 1.5 billion a year to which Boriana Åberg and this report refer. From a socio-economic perspective and in view of the need to protect Swedish welfare and Swedish growth in the long term, this was therefore an absolutely necessary decision, which is also more economically advantageous than revoking the ID controls before we can ensure internal order and security. I said in my reply that I cannot assess whether the figures given in the report are correct or not. It depends a little on the starting points and parameters you have. We are aware that this measure causes disruption, both for commuters and for integration into the Öresund region, and of course we want to ensure that these disadvantages are reduced as much as possible. We have an ongoing dialogue with Danish ministers, me on my side with the Danish Minister for Transport and Anders Ygeman and Morgan Johansson with their counterparts, in order to find as smooth and But as long as the EU countries cannot keep the external border and agree on a distribution system within the EU, we have a need to take the necessary measures to ensure that Sweden continues to be able to maintain the level that we now have. That need will remain for the foreseeable future. I can mention a couple of measures that we have taken. As I said, we clearly state in our proposal that we want to ensure that we can compensate the carriers for the extra costs they have incurred in connection with the ID checks. We have also introduced a regulation which exempts school classes and sports clubs, i.e. minors travelling in the company of an adult who is not a parent, from the identification checks. It is a very important measure, not least at this time of year, when there is a lot of school trips and sports trips. It is clear that this is complicated for many people and that it is causing this in everyday life. We are well aware of that. But in Skåne, of course, the absence of these measures had caused great problems in everyday life, since we would then have had to deal with even larger groups of people who would have needed shelter, schooling and everything else that you need. I also think you should be a little careful about the responsibility you take on when you increase your concern about how complicated this is. The risk is that you are engaged in creating self-fulfilling prophecies, and neither the Öresund region nor any other good.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-540	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister. I also thank Rikard Larsson. Finally, a Social Democrat who has read the report! I think I need to remind you of what the situation was last autumn, before the government side is far too satisfied with the management. I do not share the Minister's view that the government assumed its responsibilities. On the contrary, the government first had a very optimistic view of the challenges. Stefan Löfven declared that his Europe did not build walls. He and some of Anna Johansson's colleagues criticised Denmark's handling of the refugee crisis to the extent that it made cooperation between the two countries impossible. It took a very long time for the government to act, and then the relationship with the southern neighbour had already become frosty. As a Swedish-Danish researcher then wrote, it is with some pleasure that the Danes see the Swedish panic that occurred when one suddenly discovered in Stockholm that the reception of 163 000 new arrivals... does not take care of itself. ..................................................... So it is appropriate to show some humility. The government constantly turned a blind eye to the challenges and the crisis. Stefan Löfven actually invited the whole world to take part in Swedish welfare. Talking about responsibility and referring to the autumn crisis is quite inappropriate, I think. Suddenly there was a very rapid transformation of the Swedish position, and it was precisely this drastic transformation that caused problems. For example, if there had been cooperation with Denmark, at least one of the two controls would probably have been removed. Now, as you know, we have two checks, first a passport check on Kastrup as the transporter does and then an ID check in Hyllie. The latter is also designed in a way that raises many questions about aspects such as legal certainty and relevance. It is not uncommon for travellers who only travel regionally in Skåne and have never crossed a land border. Is it really justifiable for these travelers to be asked to show their identity? It is positive that the Nordic Council of Ministers intends to analyse the situation, but I would like to point out that analyses have already been carried out. Among other things, the report of the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce can be regarded as a very credible one. Action is needed now! Then it is the 10 billion that the Minister referred to in his reply that will be added to municipalities and county councils from autumn onwards to cover the costs associated with the reception of refugees. These billions are addressed in all contexts. If there are no schools and teachers, they say that 10 billion will be added. If it is pointed out that there are shortcomings in social services, you should add 10 billion. The list can be made endless. We should be aware that the 10 billion is not enough for everything, especially not to cover the costs of, for example, Skånetrafiken and other carriers. We need a little more humility, a little more creativity and, above all, action.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-548	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Boriana Åberg, I think that basically lies the failure of the EU and the Nordic countries to deal with the refugee crisis. I believe, contrary to Boriana Åberg, that such measures are not taken in any form of prevention. When you see people fleeing from war cores around the world, you make sure to do as much as you can before you resort to drastic measures such as limiting the possibility of fleeing to a single country. This could have been handled more easily if all Nordic countries had taken greater responsibility if all European countries had taken greater responsibility. But Boriana Åberg's solution was to close the borders earlier and to let more people stand outside. Such a measure should not be taken until it is absolutely necessary as a last resort. That is why the decision was postponed. It does not close borders for preventive purposes. I have been on the Öresund Committee, and I can see that there is a need in both the Swedish Parliament and the Danish Parliament for more information on the Öresund cooperation and how action should be taken to promote integration into the Öresund and to make it easier for those who commute borders. There have been other proposals to make border commuting considerably more difficult, with much simpler motives than this. The measure taken by the Government is a measure that has been fully proportionate to the consequences that would otherwise have occurred if they had not been taken. There are other measures that could have been taken but which would not have had that effect.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-552	Mr President, I would like to History writing, memories, and such things are sometimes a bit important, for example in this matter. As late as September October last year, the volume of asylum applications was manageable in Sweden. Sweden stood up for humane values and solidarity with those fleeing. I think we have every reason to be proud of that. It was during October and November that the number of asylum seekers increased dramatically. The expert authorities that the government has, such as the Migration Board, made assumptions and forecasts that were not at all in parity with what was then the outcome. Therefore, there was no reason for the government to act forcefully in the early autumn of last year. But there were good reasons to act forcefully at the end of autumn last year. Then the government did. Of course, the decisions on actions taken at that time were not easy, but it was absolutely necessary to ensure that Sweden was able to accept the responsibility that we had assumed towards the people who have fled to Sweden and applied for asylum here and towards everyone else in our country. The inconvenience that this caused in the Öresund region is nothing compared to what they would have caused if the measures had not been taken. I would like to hear what Boriana Åberg's answer to that question is. What do Boriana Åberg and the Moderates think we should do instead? Should we call off the ID checks? Should we lift internal border control? If so, how should we deal with the situation that is likely to arise? I am the first to agree that I would like to see that we could remove the ID checks and border controls. This presupposes that there is a system that ensures that we do not end up in the same situation again. I think that most people, also living in the Öresund region, think it is important that it is orderly in Swedish refugee reception and that even if the measure causes it in everyday life, the alternative would have been even worse, not only in Skåne but for the whole of Sweden. One could say that the 10 billion is not enough. It is possible that you always need more money for welfare. It will be interesting to see how much the Moderates put in their response to the government's spring budget at municipalities and county councils if you think that 10 billion is too little.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-559	Mr President, I would like to Let me answer the Minister's question about what the Moderates intend to do. I can read from the reservation we had at that time. We assume that when using the authority to decide on identity checks, the government will carefully examine issues of proportionality, practical application, costs and impact. It is essential for the government to take the necessary measures to limit the negative effects that the introduction of identity checks will inevitably have on travellers and carriers. We took our responsibility, and we predicted what will happen. Then it is the government that rules, not us. The responsibility lies with you. Then there was the question of our budget. It is a more responsible budget because we do not spend money on grants here and there, but we have concrete and good proposals on how to get more people to work. This is particularly important in view of the hundreds of thousands of people who have come to build a better life. A better life comes only when you support yourself, when you gain the confidence and self-esteem of being needed and having colleagues, to contribute to the construction of the new country. I would have liked to have talked more about the effects of the controls on transport in Skåne, especially the ID controls on the ferries between Ystad and Rönne, which means that Ystad will lose jobs if the Danish state breaks the agreement.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-564	Mr President, I would like to I note that there does not seem to be any thoughts in the Moderates about what should be done instead. Apparently nothing has been planned since November. The government is currently acting to reduce the negative consequences of ID and internal border control, but at the same time considers that it is still necessary to maintain the measures. What is also important is what I have tried to say in my previous posts, namely that there is a risk of playing in too high a tone to describe how difficult it is to travel. I travelled myself a couple of weeks ago from Kastrup to Kalmar. On that occasion, on a Friday afternoon at five o'clock, it was almost empty at the ID controls. There are signs at the moment that passengers are returning to the trains. They have seen that it was not really as dangerous as speculation before. Having said that, of course, we should take the signals of difficulties very seriously and do everything we can to reduce the impact. But we also have nothing to gain by making the problems greater than they really are. Instead, it risks exacerbating the problems, not solving them. I am extremely pleased that we agree that action for more people to get to work is the most important priority. I believe, however, that other ministers and Members of Parliament can have a discussion on what measures are being taken. Unfortunately, I do not think we agree on this.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-569	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me whether, in the light of Vattenfall's 2015 results, I am of the opinion that the government's policy for significantly reduced nuclear power is consistent with its desire to be a professional owner who creates values and whether I consider Vattenfall to be robust enough to cope with continued impairments and negative results without risking reduced credit ratings. As we have said before, the government has taken important steps to realise the ambition to make Vattenfall a leader in the transformation of the energy system towards a larger share of renewable energy. We will steer Vattenfall towards a more renewable energy system within the framework of the mandate decided by the Riksdag in 2010 for the company. Vattenfall shall conduct energy activities in a commercial manner so that the company is one of the companies leading the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. At the previous Annual General Meeting in Vattenfall, the owner has appointed two new members to the company's Board of Directors in order to further strengthen the Board of Directors in the strategic repositioning that Vattenfall needs to do in order to meet market developments. Vattenfall has in 2015 only made write-downs for power types such as coal and nuclear power of SEK 37 billion, of which Swedish nuclear power accounted for SEK 17 billion – mainly driven by the low electricity prices. The fact that Vattenfall announced the closure of the oldest reactors was not unexpected. Market prices of electricity have been low for some time and are expected to be so long in the future. The price level is based on the existence of a surplus of electricity on the market. The natural thing in such a situation is that the most unprofitable – which is often the oldest – production units are removed from the market. It is not surprising, therefore, that that is exactly what was decided by Vattenfall. Vattenfall faces additional challenges in the light of the market situation but is well equipped to do so. However, it is the credit institutions that have to assess what grading they give to Vattenfall. I will closely monitor the company on the basis of actively managing the state's ownership in Vattenfall AB so that the long-term value development will be the best possible. The Government has appointed an Energy Commission whose work will result in long-term rules for the energy sector in Sweden. Now we and the energy companies are waiting for the results of this work.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-575	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Damberg will closely monitor and observe the development of Vattenfall. The question is whether the owners, the Swedish people, can feel satisfied with a responsible minister who follows and observes when such great values are at stake. Vattenfall made a loss of SEK 20 billion last year. The Minister himself has mentioned write-downs of SEK 37 billion. It is hardly a good start for Mikael Damberg as the responsible minister for Vattenfall with such great losses – in addition, in a situation where the public finances of the Swedish state are under great pressure. It is deficit, breach of shelters, breach of the fiscal framework, increased expenditure and expenditure that are increasing faster than tax revenues. At the same time, the largest company in the state is operating at a loss. Not only is the business going with great loss; Mikael Damberg boasts here to steer Vattenfall towards increased sustainability. It is highly doubtful in view of the fact that during Mikael Damberg's first year as the responsible minister, Vattenfall increased its emissions after reducing them during the alliance years. This is very similar to the history that Mikael Damberg has together with Vattenfall when the government that Mikael Damberg previously worked for went out on large shopping rounds around Europe. Coal, lignite and nuclear power were bought – many of the energy sources that now cause Vattenfall major economic losses, major concerns and also major negative environmental impacts. How these acquisitions took place and how Vattenfall ended up in the position where Vattenfall is today and that Mikael Damberg has to take responsibility for is not clear to the Swedish people. We do not know what decisions were taken, which ministers were responsible for the decision, how coordination was carried out in the Government Office, what documents are there about this and who actually made the decisions. We don't know how Göran Person made these decisions, and so on. What we know is that the Swedish people are now big owners of German nuclear power, coal and lignite, which not only emits a lot of carbon dioxide equivalents in the air, but also now risks affecting the Swedish economy in a very negative direction. Is it sufficient, then, to have a minister closely following developments in which CO2 emissions are increasing and where the losses are SEK 20 billion a year? Or do the Swedish people deserve an owner who takes a more active responsibility and who leads and follows the development in a committed and not only passive way? I have great respect, Mr President, for the fact that Mikael Damberg has many different things to do. I understand that a great deal of energy has been put into trying to defend the electoral promises that we have seen being betrayed during the time that has been. Mikael Damberg, for example, made a large number of reducing the company's health pay liability. Now we see how Mikael Damberg has fallen into disrepute on these issues, and it is increasing the responsibility of companies to pay sick pay. Nevertheless, Mr President, with such great values at stake in Vattenfall, the Minister should be able to take the time to get involved in the company and give clear answers. It is the credit rating agencies that set the credit ratings," says Mikael Damberg. That is certainly correct, Mr President, but as owner one should be able to take responsibility for how well equipped one's company is. How strong are Swedish people's companies? You can't just stand passively alongside and observe that. Here, of course, the government needs to act. How can this company be turned from the large losses of 20 billion that have been made to profitability over the years to come? The answers from Mikael Damberg are missing here.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-583	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions related to the interpellation! These are questions Wykman might want to ask the previous bourgeois government. For eight years, the bourgeois government was responsible for Vattenfall. During that time, decisions were also made on some of the investments that today have burdened Vattenfall. They're lying today like a wet blanket over Vattenfall. The most famous is the Nuon scandal. SEK 89 billion was bought for. The depreciation of Nuon has so far been nearly SEK 53 billion for taxpayers. That is something to consider, and it is also one of the reasons why we have strengthened the governance of state-owned companies. It must not be unclear who made decisions and how decisions were taken. The proposal for ownership coordination that has now come to Parliament's table on the current issue of the German lignite is in a written request to the government, but also in a written reply from the government to Vattenfall on the matter, so that there will be order and control of the state companies. Something more scandalous than the Nuon affair's aftergame is hard to find. It is not impressive corporate governance when we still do not know who made the decision and on what grounds they made the decisions and when the former Minister of Economic Affairs did not even want to come to the KU to answer questions about perhaps the worst deal in Swedish business history. Now we have taken a grip, as I mentioned in my answer. We have introduced a new governance process linked to ownership coordination so that there is more order and order. We have also strengthened internal governance in Vattenfall with the expertise that Vattenfall believes they have a great need for. The energy market is changing. It is not only Vattenfall that is facing major problems today in the European energy market. In principle, all major energy companies are affected by the same thing, i.e. falling and low electricity prices. It is currently pushing all energy companies and, in principle, all types of energy right now. Whether we are talking about nuclear power, hydroelectric power or wind power – in so far as we are talking about new construction of it – the energy law is under pressure because of low electricity prices. Then it is important to act long-term as owner. The focus should be on the long-term strategy. The Vattenfall Board is working on a business plan. It is a market-based plan that means that they want to be the leader in the transformation of the energy system. I think it's a good plan. If this sustainability approach had marked some of the investments made, not least with the Nuon deal, this deal might never have been made. By then they had not entered 89 billion in a project that led to 53 billion SEK in impairments. You can also discuss the previous business. I would like to point out to Niklas Wykman that we can consider whether it was wise to make some of the European investments that Vattenfall made under various governments. There was broad parliamentary support for Vattenfall making greater investments in Europe as the energy market in Europe changed. What you can see from Vattenfall is that lignite has been a profitable business. That's what Vattenfall says. They have met their profitability requirements. On the other hand, one can consider whether it was a good deal from a sustainability perspective, because coal is of course a major emitter of carbon dioxide. This is also one of the reasons why Vattenfall's Board has submitted a request for ownership coordination when they want to sell the business and concentrate on renewable development.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-591	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Mikael Damberg is increasing his level of commitment in Vattenfall. At the end of the day, no one in Swedish politics is more Mr. Vattenfall than the Minister for Economic Affairs is with full responsibility for the company's operations. The Minister for Industry will discuss the ownership review discussion that is now to take place regarding lignite operations. I think that's good. For example, how does the Minister of Economic Affairs view the tax arrangements that the Czech company is said to have? It is of course interesting for the Swedish people to find out what business Mikael Damberg wants to do, with whom and in what way and what they are prepared to approve and accept. How will Mikael Damberg look at the Environmental Party's promises not to sell this business? How will this coordination take place in the Government Office? What information will we receive? How will Mikael Damberg justify the very large losses of SEK 20 to 30 billion that the transaction can entail in a situation where public finances are under great pressure? It is, of course, a good thing that this is done in a transparent way. I agree with Mikael Damberg that it is good that Vattenfall is now more transparent and that the government should be a more active, committed and present owner. Many of the things that came out of the investigation that was done and of the discussion that took place around Nuon are welcomed and hopefully lead to a better operation. It is strange that the Minister for Economic Affairs looks so much backwards. But since the Minister for Economic Affairs chooses to look back, can the Minister for Economic Affairs explain how it happened when Brunsbüttel, Krümmel, Stade or Brokdorf was bought by the Social Democratic Government for which Mikael Damberg worked? What was that coordination and the considerations? How was it discussed in the Social Democratic Party when they bought Bewag, for example, or when they acquired the whole lignite mining in Laubag? How did the Social Democratic Party then reason, and how do we now view both the environmental losses that this has caused and the economic losses that long-standing German nuclear power entails? Somewhere in the Socialist party peak these questions were reasonably dealt with – how would that happen and what would be done? Mikael Damberg praises the search that came of the Nuon affair, and so on. Then it should also be appropriate to draw lessons from the acquisitions that were made in the past and the Social Democrats more than any other party in Europe became a party for coal and lignite and for investments in nuclear power in other countries. Mr President, I would like to After all, the serious thing is that the company must be cared for in a good way. Here we see how the government is both a player and a player in the same market. In the same way as they are an actor with their lignite and coal holdings and their holding of German stationary nuclear power, they are also an actor in the Swedish energy market. Here we see in a difficult situation with falling electricity prices how the government imposes charges on Swedish nuclear power. The Minister for Industry himself referred to how these charges have forced Vattenfall to make large write-downs on its Swedish assets, which, because of the policies carried out, are simply devoid of value and must therefore be written down. This is a serious challenge for an already under pressure company. Does Mikael Damberg believe that the measures taken by the government with more expensive charges on nuclear power with increased power taxes are compatible with being at the same time a good and responsible owner in accordance with the Ownership Directive? Or does the government take with one hand and give with the other so that eventually the sum is that you have taken much more from Vattenfall than the company can handle? Mr President, I would like to That can be why you get reduced credit ratings. You get reduced credit ratings at the same time as you write off and at the same time you make losses. If that situation arises, how robust is Vattenfall, and how should the Minister of Economic Affairs deal with that situation?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-602	Mr President, I would like to In essence, Vattenfall is a strong company with important assets. It is a company that is important not only in a European perspective but above all in a Swedish energy supply perspective. It is important for Swedish competitiveness but also for Swedish customers. This debate will, if possible, be more elusive than I expected from a serious discussion on both energy policy and Vattenfall. I have not said that I have welcomed the examination that has come out of the Nuon havoc, because we have still not received many of the answers. Your Minister of Economic Affairs from the former bourgeois government did not even want to come to the KU and answer questions. This is still an open wound when it comes to how we deal with state-owned companies, not least Vattenfall, and how to do it seriously. This deal has become perhaps Sweden's worst deal of all time with very large write-downs for Swedish taxpayers. When it comes to lignite, I am open and transparent in the discussion and take on a self-critical role. I think that both of our parties should think a little about how wise it really was, because both our parties were behind Vattenfall's expansions in Europe. That's how it was. Don't pretend there was only one party that thought it was good. There was a big discussion about this, and the Parliament welcomed an expansion in Europe, and it included German lignite. It can now be observed afterwards, as Vattenfall does, that it was an economically profitable business, even assuming that it could have economic consequences when choosing to sell the business in this case. Vattenfall notes that if it were to choose to maintain its business, the negative economic impact would be even greater. Overall, this has been a profitable business for Vattenfall and taxpayers. But I can really question whether it was wise to do so anyway. Sustainability aspects were not taken very seriously in the discussion at the time. The new thing about Vattenfall's both control and management is that we stress that Vattenfall should be the leader in the transformation of the energy system. Vattenfall's board of directors has gone out and said that the future investments, new investments, which one sees as being made to 100% in renewable energy. I think that both our parties should consider what responsibility we had back then. Now there is a big difference between Nuon and lignite, for lignite was an economically profitable business for taxpayers, while Nuon has been a loss deal from start to finish. It does not seem entirely serious to discuss the issue in this way. But Vattenfall remains a very important company for the state, and I am in no way waiting in relation to Sweden's perhaps most important state companies. It is important for our energy supply, our competitiveness and for the very great values of the state. Therefore, I have decided that we should tighten up the issue of ownership coordination, unlike the previous government, so that it is more orderly, and we should follow the strict rules that exist for ownership coordination in this case and take a position on the deal that Vattenfall's board has presented to the government.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-610	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the Swedish people feel very confident with a responsible owner who takes on so much political rhetoric and also does so in a situation where credibility is already damaged in view of the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs in so many areas where he previously made promises to Swedish companies has had to back off other interests in the government. Mikael Damberg began by saying that he had voted in favour of the new directives that came into place in 2010. In his next speech, Mikael Damberg said that the previous government did nothing. The question is who put those proposals on the table in such cases. Mikael Damberg continued with rhetorical charades and referred to profitability in German lignite. Well, what about the coal? What about the nuclear power you bought, Mikael Damberg? Has it been profitable? The Minister for Economic Affairs can answer that question in his last speech. Have nuclear power transactions in Germany and Poland been profitable for the Swedish state? Is it a positive asset that we have, or did the Minister of Economic Affairs just resort to a rhetorical trick to get away from this issue? Mr President, I would like to It is relevant to discuss these issues in an open and transparent manner. I am pleased that the Minister for Economic Affairs has today made clear that transparency and transparency are now to prevail. I therefore look forward to the Minister for Economic Affairs presenting the documents and the coordination that took place in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2003, 2004 and 2006 when former Social Democratic governments acquired large amounts of lignite, coal and nuclear energy in other countries. It is of course welcome that Mikael Damberg as Minister of Economic Affairs is now telling the Swedish people that the cards should be placed on the table. What was the coordination? Who made what decisions? Which ministers were informed? How much were the ministers informed? How did the government reason when the purchases went through?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-614	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellation debate. Rarely have I seen a moderate representative escape his own responsibility in the way that is shown in this debate. But I suppose Niklas Wykman may not speak for the Moderate Coalition Party in this debate, but perhaps only for his own opinion. Had we had a responsible debate in this House today, it would have been about the absolutely worst deal Vattenfall has done, that is, Nuon, but it is hardly commented on by Niklas Wykman. I have said in this debate that we – both our parties – have a responsibility for the expansion in Europe that we jointly supported. Several of the investments have been profitable, including the brown coal business that is most under discussion now as it is also subject to a certain potential sale. Then it is reasonable to evaluate that deal. I'm sorry, but Niklas Wykman has an ability to pretend that the Moderates haven't played a role in Vattenfall for the last eight years. It's very strange. I think a government company like Vattenfall deserves some respect. It's a very important company. I have opened up transparency, and I have tightened the regulatory framework for ownership coordination. I think that's how you should operate in such an important company as Vattenfall. I will continue to protect Vattenfall's long-term value development, because that is absolutely the most important thing. I will also ensure that Vattenfall is the leader in the transition of the energy system to sustainable production. I think it is extremely important for Sweden that we have such an energy company. I had only hoped that the Moderates had also shown some interest in this direction, not only in the past but also in today's debate.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-618	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Sestrajcic has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to prevent venture capital companies and other companies buying up, closing down and moving out profitable companies, to the detriment of an established local business structure. Daniel Sestrajcic has also asked whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that the AP funds do not contribute to the relocation of profitable production out of the country and what measures I intend to take to safeguard the local industrial structure built up around Findus in Bjuv for decades. The work is so distributed within the government that it is I as Minister for Enterprise who answers the questions about what the government is doing to increase the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises to grow and employ more. It is deeply regrettable that owners of a profitable business such as Findus in Bjuv come to a decision to move it to Germany. In this type of situation, the government always makes an assessment of the need for action depending on the conditions prevailing locally and regionally in the part of the country where a notice is given. The government has no legal means to stop a decision made by a private company, but I have met with the company and the owners to question me about the grounds for their decision and to point out that I expect them to act responsibly against the employees and against the region. AP Funds shall maximise returns in relation to the risk of investments in the long term, and according to the AP Funds Act, the Government may not have any views on the management. Regarding the local economic structure around Findus in Bjuv, I would like to mention that the government is constantly reviewing the possibilities for further efforts to promote long-term competitiveness and growth. Within the Government's regional growth policy, there are also major investments that come to Skåne, including SEK 1 billion by 2020 within the regional Structural Funds programme and a further SEK 3.4 billion in several cross-border Interreg programmes for growth promotion together with regions in Norway, Denmark and Germany. In addition, there are major efforts under the rural development programme aimed, inter alia, at strengthening the competitiveness of rural businesses. For the whole of Sweden, the rural development programme covers SEK 36 billion by 2020. The Government has also recently presented a new industrialisation strategy to strengthen Swedish industry's competitive conditions and attract new investments in Swedish production. Furthermore, the Government has decided on an export strategy and recently submitted a proposal to the Riksdag for a new and improved structure for state venture capital. During the spring, the Government will also develop a national food strategy covering the entire food chain. The aim of the work is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and profitability in the food chain, while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-625	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg, although I note that you avoided answering my questions and were not very specific about the support to Bjuv in the difficult times the district actually experiences. Bjuv is, as you know, a small town with 15,000 inhabitants and currently 10% unemployment. Findus is a strong and profitable company with great significance for the city, and it is a company where families and generations have worked side by side. For example, Christel Jansson started at Findus right after elementary school, and her mother, grandmother, brother-in-law and cousins have also worked and worked there. We also have Bertil Roos, who has worked at the company since 1994. He has always believed in Findus and thought that perhaps one day his grandchildren would work there. In Bjuv, we are talking about 450 workers who are losing their jobs, and to that will be added over 500 farmers who are affected. I note that it is clear that for the venture capital company Nomad Foods, which was established as late as 2014, it was about buying up and closing down a competitor and taking over the brand. But it was also done because it was easy and very cheap to close profitable production in Sweden. Then it's the same that Findus is not only a well-functioning and profitable company but also a company where there have recently been big investments, which has created hope for the future. In its reply, the Government points out that the government has no legal means to stop decisions taken by a private company, and we both know that that is the case. However, my question was whether the Government intends to take any initiatives to prevent venture capital companies and other companies from buying up, closing down and moving out profitable companies in the future. From the evasive answer, I can see that the answer is no. Since this is a shocking response in my ears, and certainly in the ears of many Findus workers, I would like to give the Government the opportunity to adjust and clarify its response in this regard. Have I understood you correctly, Minister: Are you and the government not going to take any initiatives to prevent venture capital companies and other companies buying up, closing down and moving profitable companies from Sweden? Bjuv is, as you know, neither the first nor the last example in the near future of the problem that profitable and efficient factories are closed in Sweden. We have Gislaved, Västervik, Tranås, Långhyttan and Gävle. These are all places that have been affected by this very thing in the near future. One of the main reasons why venture capital companies and other companies close down and relocate profitable companies from Sweden is that it is cheap and easy to do so compared to other countries. In Sweden it is sufficient to pay wages during the period of notice; in Germany, for example, it is considerably more expensive because of German legislation. When Electrolux closed down its factory in Nuremberg in 2006, the closure cost SEK 1 281,000 per employee. In total, the company paid 2.3 billion. When Electrolux closed down its factory in Torsvik outside Jönköping the same year, the closure cost SEK 226 000 per employee. It therefore cost six times more to close down in Germany compared to Sweden. It is no wonder that it is Sweden that is affected. What I have seen from the Swedish Government so far is too weak. True, you sound a lot – you call management to meetings and call for concern that the venture capital company Nomad Foods should act responsibly. However, I think it is an unsustainable strategy, and I can see that the result is very meagre. After your meeting with them, the company made a promise of a full-time employment worth more than a million, but intends to proceed with its closure plans. It is embarrassing that the government is not doing more on the long-term issue of preventing profitable companies from closing down and moving abroad. After all, it is you in the government who have the power to take the initiative to change the situation. It goes without saying to me that Mikael Damberg and the government should look at what the legislation looks like in other countries, such as Germany, when it comes to the liability of companies in the event of the closure of profitable companies – in order to mitigate the damage. Why is the government not prepared to do this?
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-634	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that the closure of Bjuv is a hard blow, not only for the 450 people in Bjuv who are directly affected by the closure of the factory, but also for the 500-700 farmers who are indirectly affected by their production being unable to find a outlet. For a small community like Bjuv, this is a very large employer, so it has consequences. In addition – that's why I also think it's important – we are in a development phase where the Swedish food industry needs to develop. And there are great conditions for this, not least with a food strategy for Sweden. The situation that one of our most famous brands in the form of Findus is not in place in Bjuv to the same extent as before, and that may break some of the infrastructure on which the food industry rests, becomes a much bigger question than some debaters and others might understand in this city, because Bjuv sounds very far away. I just want to give you a background image. It is not just that we have closures in Sweden. We have a very strong feature in Swedish industry right now. We have a 4% growth rate in GDP, almost twice as high as growth in Germany, higher than growth in the United Kingdom and the United States. We have 80 000 more people going to work today compared to the elections. We see a reduced share of notice in Sweden. Above all, we see a large increase in exports from Sweden. It is the first time in 20 years that Swedish companies gain market share in the global market. This is a very positive development. We also see that investments are increasing in Sweden. That is what we need to be clear about. When you talk about the development of business, you have to look at both. There will always be some restructuring in business. Some companies will be closed down and others started. Some factories will continue to be closed down in the future. Some of our production may even be moved to other countries, because we live in an open economy. However, we currently have net growth in Sweden that is important, and I am very committed to that. I would like to give this as a background to the picture painted by the events in Bjuv. I would also like to comment on the fact that we are not so specific. That's right, because in this answer I didn't want to get ahead of myself. If we are to be really honest, the formal decisions are not quite made yet. It's communicated outwards. However, we still do not know exactly who will be affected by this, and we do not know how the MBL negotiations are going. When something this serious happens, the government's main strategy is to work together with the local and regional level, because we believe that regional growth policy is an important part of Swedish growth policy, i.e. that you have the most knowledge locally and regionally about the conditions that exist, what is most prioritised and how to proceed. That is why the discussion at the moment about what is happening in the next stage is a little horizontal, because the concrete decision has not actually come. Nor do we know exactly who will be affected by the forthcoming decision. We are very committed, both from the perspective of supporting the people affected in this transition – this is priority one – and how we get the development to move forward in the Swedish food industry. I just want to say, if I have time, that at the meeting I had with both Findus and representatives of the owners, they gave the message that they would continue to invest in research and development in Bjuv, which may be good. But an even more important message was that they were open to a sale of the factory. I think this is an important message that they are giving, because I have been contacted by some others who are thinking about whether this is an investment that they are prepared to make in order to continue to develop the business in Bjuv.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-643	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Damberg talks long and well about Bjuv, the strategy and the horizontal issues. He carefully avoids answering the question in my previous speech as to why we should not review the legislation to make it more difficult and expensive to close down profitable businesses. It is clear that companies will always be closed down, but now we are talking about companies that are demonstrably efficient and profitable. All the places I listed earlier had the same situation. When things are going well for Sweden, it must surely be important both for those cities and for Sweden to keep the companies that are efficient and profitable. One scandal in this connection is that our pension money in the AP funds has contributed to the closure in Bjuv. The major shareholder is Nomad Foods, which is a venture capital company, and another is the venture capital company Pershing Square Holdings, which is based in a tax haven. The first AP Fund is a major shareholder in Pershing Square Holdings with 1.4 billion. So we find ourselves in the absurd situation that with our pension money we are making a whole society shot at, as well as hundreds of people unemployed and thus their pensions worse in the future. How stupid can it be? The Government's response to the AP funds is not only limited to one sentence, it is also meaningless. I am aware that the government, with current regulations, cannot control the placement of AP funds. However, my question was whether the Government intends to take any steps to ensure that the AP funds will not contribute to the relocation of profitable production from the country in the future. The current regulations are not cut into stone, God-preserved, and they are actually set by the Swedish parliament and government. Sometimes it seems that we are powerless in the face of a global faceless capital, an open economy, while this capital often has both face and can be checked whether the political will for this exists. This becomes clear not least when it comes to employees' own money, as it does with our money in the First AP Fund. I can also note that the government has previously talked about the desire to use them for a green transition. In Canada, pension funds are used effectively to invest in conversion, influence corporate structural plans and anchor ownership in the local economy. It has saved tens of thousands of jobs and created a climate in which companies stop and develop rather than move and dismantle. For us in the Left, it goes without saying that the directives for our AP funds must be reviewed, so that instead of contributing to the closure of profitable companies, they are used to secure, develop and support profitable, sustainable and viable companies that create jobs and green change. It is a mystery to me that Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg and the government are not interested in this. But let me also, on this point, give the Government an opportunity to clarify its answer and perhaps even answer my questions: why is the Government not prepared to change the current regulatory framework so that the Government can ensure that the AP Funds will not contribute to profitable production moving out of the country in the future? That's what's happening now. Why is the government not prepared to review the rules for the AP funds so that this cannot be repeated? And why does the Government consider it entirely appropriate that the First AP Fund, with its ownership and actions, contributes to the closure of Findus in Bjuv? That is the consequence of the answer. I believe that our government should take the measures that have been taken in other countries to ensure that profitable investments from our AP funds can be made in profitable companies also in Sweden, not only but also in Sweden.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-653	Mr President, I would like to Long-term ownership is an important issue. In the industrial strategy we work with, Smart Industry, it is about making the industry more attractive, that is to attract more investments to Sweden. It is not only about keeping the companies that already exist in Sweden and developing them, it is also about being attractive to attract more investment. It is always in the cards when considering how to develop a business environment that you are also attractive for new investments. Long-term ownership is an important issue. We are now making efforts to reform state venture capital to ensure that companies can grow in Sweden and that we use both state capital to some extent for this, which is competing in the market, and also attract more private capital so that we have more growing companies. It is an important change that we are now implementing that has to do with ownership but above all with funding. The second issue is about the AP funds, and I would like to say right in that part that we have had a discussion in recent years about opening up other types of investments to the AP funds without politicising the investments in AP funds. We parties behind the pension agreement are clear that we do not want to politicise the management of our pension money. They will be managed as well as possible for the future pension of our pensioners. There has also been a discussion about slightly more free investment conditions so that more of the capital could be invested in, for example, unlisted Swedish companies in order not to just have to go through alternative investments, which are being made today. However, I do not quite understand Daniel Sestrajcic's question. Does he mean that the AP funds would not have the right to invest their money in funds? If the AP funds were to invest only in individual companies, we would have a completely different structure on the AP funds' operations in the future. I do not really see what it means that the Left Party brings forward in the discussion. The discussions we had about AP Funds' investment opportunities and organisation were held after critical consultation points on certain parts. The government has made it clear that if there is an opening in this House, we are prepared to discuss again the issues, not least about long-term ownership and freer investment opportunities. It remains to be seen whether progress can be made on this issue. I think it would be good, not only for the pension funds' ability to invest and have good returns on their capital, but also for what the Left Party is now raising in the debate that it also allows for more long-term ownership also within the framework of the business community in Sweden – but that for it political parties would have the right to veto certain companies or decide politically what investments the AP funds should make. This kind of economy would be quite dangerous for Swedish pension money in the long term.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-661	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the opening that I expected there and which I hope will be followed up by concrete action. No one has talked about politicising the AP funds, just as it is not about politicising the AP funds if you want to use them for the green transformation that we have to do if we are to live on this earth at all. In the description of the AP Funds, it already says about the need to invest long-term, about efficient use of different types of resources and so on. It is about reviewing the guidelines that exist and deciding what the AP funds should have for guidelines. A reasonable act, of course, is to talk about long-term ownership. We have no problem with investing in different types of companies and funds. But investing in venture capital companies in tax havens is a problem that I suppose the Minister also sees, or contributing to the disappearance of jobs that are profitable from Sweden. In Canada there are examples of how it could work otherwise. Look at what's happening in Canada! Look at what is happening in Germany where you want to make it more expensive to close profitable companies! The third question was about Bjuv. Anyone affected by the closure of Findus in Bjuv, employees, their relatives, local community traders, subcontractors, entrepreneurs and farmers, has the right to receive a clear answer from the Minister. What concrete measures will the Minister take to protect the local economic structure that has been built up for decades to save Bjuv? All the things the minister lists are great, but they are not very concrete for Bjuv.
i-9fa0f242c40f60a6-666	Mr President, I would like to I thank the interpellant for an important question about Bjuv and what is happening there now. I have met the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Bjuv, and I have been in contact with the trade unions. My employees at the department have also worked on site in Skåne with the region, with the state authorities involved and with the local parties to discuss how the situation develops. I understand that we want the answers right now, but we cannot get ahead of ourselves. The concrete decisions are not even taken. We do not know exactly which people may be affected by this. But we are already working with the region to see what we can do, not just to take care of the people who may be affected by this and to ensure that they move forward in new jobs, but that the food industry in Bjuv, which is part of the heart of the food industry in Sweden, can continue to develop. A small part of it has to do with research and development, but it also has to do with other questions that require an answer. I will continue to be committed to this issue, both towards Findus and the owners, but also with regional and local partners to see what we can do together to make the best of the situation. It is not just people and families that are affected. If this is not handled properly, it can be a severe blow to the Swedish food industry, and my great interest is to ensure that the business in Bjuv can continue to develop in one way or another.
