i-13631b5f34ecda94-6	Mr President, I would like to Olof Lavesson has asked me when and in what forms I intend to investigate both the conditions for a new financing model for public service and the new broadcasting permits. Public broadcasting is an important building block in a democratic and open society. I share Olof Lavesson's conviction that public service is strengthened when its mission is debated. At the same time, in order to safeguard the independence and independence of public service broadcasters, it is important that they are not constantly under political scrutiny and investigation. By the turn of the year, half the permit period has passed. I have therefore – as I announced at Parliament's Question Time on 10 November – invited the management of the respective public service companies to a mid-term review. The aim is to discuss the current broadcasting permits and the conditions for the future. With a view to the next authorisation period, there will be a comprehensive screening of the companies' mandates and of the financing system. It is my view that public service funding should remain stable, predictable and independent, and be managed in such a way that it is perceived as fair and reasonable. It is therefore gratifying that there is broad political agreement on the basic principles for financing the activities of public service broadcasters. I have no opinion other than that public services should be investigated in accordance with Parliament's wishes for a committee with cross-border and parliamentary composition. In a few weeks' time, I will return to you with a statement on the form and timetable of that work.
i-13631b5f34ecda94-11	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by telling you how important I think it is that we stand here today debating public service. The commitment of public service is a good thing. I am also pleased that we can debate here how public services can develop rather than be phased out. Unfortunately, we have seen the debate moving in a different direction in many countries, some countries very close to us. At Question Time on 10 November, I put a number of questions to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. As we are soon in the middle of the current broadcasting period for the companies, I wondered when the mid-term reconciliation would take place, so that we can see in good time what has worked well or less well and what may need to be changed. I also wondered how the government intends to proceed with regard to the forthcoming broadcasting permits. The next permit period begins in 2020. Since it is through broadcasting permits that we make political decisions about public service, which otherwise should seem completely independent, it is more than high time that that work started. I am very pleased that the government is striving for broad political unity. Finally, I wondered how the government intends to act with regard to the financing of public services. The background is, of course, the announcement made by the Riksdag in broad agreement in 2015 that a cross-border and parliamentary study of the radio and television fee should be made. We also mentioned this in a report last winter. As far as the mid-term discussion is concerned, I received at Question Time the answer that the Minister has now given, while the other questions were unanswered, hence the interpellation we are debating today. The funding is perhaps the issue that is most often debated and discussed. The radio and television fee, or the TV license as it is often called, has served us well and also served for a public service where independence has been the focus. The willingness to pay has also been high. Having said that, however, a number of challenges are now facing us. I believe that the current system is not sustainable in the long term. The status quo is no longer an option. On the moderate side, we have long advocated funding over the state budget, but have also stressed that this funding must be designed in a way that safeguards both long-term and continued independence. Objections have been raised that this would be at risk when the Riksdag with a club law can drastically change the conditions for public service when the budget is decided. However, Parliament can do so even today by regulating the level of the radio and television fee in connection with the budget. In addition, there are other areas that require independence, stability and long-termness and which it is perfectly possible to finance over state budgets one, such as our judicial system. Other proposals for funding have been raised from other parties. We are prepared to listen to and discuss those proposals. However, for a discussion to take place, it is necessary to invite someone to the meeting table. That responsibility rests with the government. Once again, today we are told that it will happen shortly, this time specified for a few weeks. I wonder, therefore, whether the Minister for Culture can say anything more about this. In addition, there are two different questions that are asked, on the one hand, about funding and, on the other hand, about the broadcasting permits themselves. How does the government intend to deal with this? Is there a broad investigation ahead of us, which should cover both broadcasting permits and funding, or are there two parallel investigations to be carried out? What is the financing process and work on the new broadcasting permits?
i-Ackg2gM3xWFQJrLPf4s4p2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson, for the discussion! Just as Olof Lavesson stressed, it is important that we debate public service conditions and opportunities, not least today, when we celebrate the Freedom of the Press Act 250 years. It is a great day to also be able to stand here in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. However, as Mr Lavesson also said, in many ways it is dark times, and in our vicinity there are restrictions on the independence of the media and even in the ability of public service companies to operate independently and review power. That's why the conditions are so central. That is why it is also my conviction and that of the whole government that, when we plan the future of public service, there must be parliamentary and wide-ranging action. Not least, it is absolutely central that the Moderates, who are one of the largest parties in the parliament and who have a great habit of leading and taking responsibility, also feel convinced that the result and the process leading up to it are something they are behind. Unfortunately, it will also be required in future that we are many who are convinced democrats and understand the importance of public services being allowed to work freely and independently and able to review our reality. The ambition is to return shortly to respond to, manage and meet Parliament's wishes in the first announcement of the financing inquiry. It's central that it gets started. The mid-term review is starting, as I said earlier, so we also have it on the basis. However, both the funding issue and the outcome of the mid-term review will be the basis for the major review, the major study on the conditions for public service in the state to come. Exactly how this will be put into practice will also be a discussion for the Riksdag and the group leaders of the parties. There you can see how best you want to deal with the various issues to be addressed. I look forward to a continued discussion with Parliament's parties, not least with the Moderates, on how best to make this parliamentary, long-term and sustainable.
i-13631b5f34ecda94-24	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little worried about the answer. If I understand the Minister of Culture correctly, we will first investigate the funding and manage the mid-term reconciliation, and then it will form the basis for new broadcasting permits. The pressure of time worries me a little. As I also said at Question Time a few weeks ago, I am afraid that the Minister for Culture sometimes underestimates the complexity of both the substance of the questions and the parliamentary process. If we really want to see a public service that can be developed in a new time and given good conditions, and if we mean what we say with independence, long-termism and stable conditions, it is not easy to do this. One of the issues frequently raised by broadcasters in terms of broadcasting permits is that they are today designed for traditional broadcasting, that is, the traditional television table and what we see in traditional television. At the same time, the audience has chosen to increasingly seek out other platforms. You want to watch whenever you want and where you are, via computers, mobile phones, tablets and apps. The creation of broadcasting agreements that take these consumption patterns into account is very complicated. Technology neutrality is not something that you can only quickly enter a broadcasting permit. It's an investigation itself. That is why I have repeatedly repeated the issue of process and timetable, and I will continue to repeat this. The focus has also been on technology neutrality with regard to the radio and television fee. Today, it is the owner of a television receiver who pays a fee. But what is devoted to being a television is becoming increasingly difficult to define. Here, too, new patterns of consumption are causing this. The problem is: when the debate on public service is more about the definition of different technologies and less about the conditions and why we have this, confidence in funding risks being eroded. On several occasions I have raised the objection of principle that the radio and television fee has come to be regarded more and more as a pay-TV fee. You hear quite often the argument: Yes, but I don't look at SVT. Then why should I pay? I can understand that argument to some extent. At the same time, I think it must meet with the debate on why we actually have public service. One of the most important tasks of the public service is to examine authorities, organisations and companies that have an influence on decisions concerning citizens. That review shall take place without pressure or direction from political or commercial forces. All of us who live in an open and democratic society are valiant to have that scrutiny in place and functioning. Whether we look at the programme itself or not, we depend on public service in our society. The Minister for Culture and Democracy often returns to independence. She is right to do so. The importance of both political impartiality and political independence cannot be stressed enough. Much is about what we are discussing today, but there are also things we could make agreements on right now. How does the Minister for Culture and Democracy feel that the demands for independence are in line with the fact that we have legislative politicians on the Board of Directors of the Administrative Foundation? We have previously agreed not to do so on the individual boards of the broadcasters. How consistent, then, is that in the Administrative Foundation? The task of the foundation is to be a buffer between the government and the broadcasters. It's not about confidence in the individuals who sit there-- they're probably all excellent. But it is about the principle of sitting in a legislative assembly that makes decisive decisions about the welfare of public service broadcasters while sitting in the foundation that should be the buffer. That problem cannot be ignored. An agreement to clear the Administrative Foundation's board of directors from active members of parliament should be reached as soon as possible. Does the Minister for Culture and Democracy not agree with this?
i-13631b5f34ecda94-35	Mr President, I would like to How happy I am about the last thing Olof Lavesson came into regarding independence and how we strengthen it. We in the Green Party have long held an internal discussion on how the Swedish Administrative Foundation looks and how we could change that form in order to increase independence further. It is a discussion that I know my party, the Green Party, is happy to pass on with the Moderates. Then we can see how we will discuss ourselves on a proposal for the other parties in Parliament on this matter. So I would very much like to come back to that. My libertarian self and my conviction that we must do everything to increase the armlong distance and formalize it sings right now for joy, when I got this ball suited to me. I look forward to continuing the discussion on this. However, if we go back to the way we are going to run the financing process and the big broadcasting permit issue, I would like to make it clear that I do not see it as two completely separate soloists. On the contrary, I am very pleased that we are starting with the issue of financing and then, of course, the result is with us. Maybe it'll be a push into the big state of the air. The issue of financing is crucial. I am thinking of the latest figures on how many people actually pay for Radiotjänst in Kiruna. What has happened in 2016 is worrying. The sum of the account where the money comes in, which is then passed on to the public service broadcasters, has fallen. The issue of funding is by no means urgent, but this means that we have issues that we really need to address in order for us to have a system that is confident and that people feel they want to pay for. Just as Olof Lavesson said, it is also about what you get from public service as part of a democratic society. This review is not just about the minutes I watch TV or listen to Swedish Radio's broadcasts, but it is a much bigger and supporting democracy issue. I look forward to further discussions. I look forward to coming back and presenting this whole process shortly, hopefully only within a few weeks. And I look forward to being part of many exciting discussions.
i-13631b5f34ecda94-40	Mr President, I would like to When I ask the Minister for Culture and Democracy to come to Parliament and explain and defend the government's policies in various areas, I sometimes feel a bit like the drop that erodes the stone. You get a little answer every time. You take small steps forward, and it's always nice. For a few months we will hopefully have time to build this into a whole. The mid-term review was indeed approved at Question Time. Today we have been told that, with regard to funding, we hope that there will be a response within a few weeks. I guess we'll have to have a new debate where we'll discuss the broadcasting permits. Then we can get another piece in the puzzle. The Minister of Culture need not doubt the Moderates' commitment to public service. We are deeply committed to this issue. We have tried to be clear about what our initial values are in those discussions. But we are also determined to contribute constructively to the debates that will follow. I think it is important that there is a broad consensus on public service and that we have long-term and stable conditions. It requires getting along. I would also like to welcome the joy of the Minister for Culture at the input I made on the Board of Directors of the Administrative Foundation. Even there, I think there is room for very constructive discussions. I would like to wish the Minister of Culture every success in the discussions around the government table, as perhaps it is not only the parties in parliament but also the parties in the government who have slightly different views on the matter – this may also apply to parts of the Green Party in parliament. But I will make a positive and constructive contribution to finding a solution here too. Mr President, I would like to Before I finish, I think it is appropriate – when we are discussing the media, independence and other things – to pay attention, as the Minister for Culture did, to the fact that we are celebrating 250 years of freedom of the press in Sweden today. It is the freedom of the press in the world that has been the longest. I will soon be attending a seminar here in Parliament where attention will be paid to it. I'm very happy about that. I say: big congratulations to all of us who get to experience this!
i-13631b5f34ecda94-45	Mr President, I would like to I would like to end by thanking Olof Lavesson for the interpellation but also for the commitment. Is there something we need in our country today, and in the Swedish Parliament it is the true liberals and true democrats who do not submit to the forces and winds that exist in our society, but who stand up for independence, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and all the freedoms that generations of people before us have fought for? Thank you very much.
