ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5278	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 13th. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of the 11th and 12ths Meeting of 22. In January 2009, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Csörgits, Katzian, Köfer, Mag are reported as prevented. Hakl, Dr. Plassnik and Praßl. [[12:01:48]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5312	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5573	I announce that the Second Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. The following templates have also been received: Agreements on social security between the Republic of Austria and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay (47 d.b.), Declaration by the Republic of Austria on the adoption of the accession of the Republic of San Marino to the Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (49 D.B.), Additional Protocol to the Geneva Agreements of 12. August 1949 on the adoption of an additional trademark (Protocol III) (50 d.a.) and Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the mutual recognition of equality in higher education (51 d.b.). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning these items to a committee and to place them on one of the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That's why I'm doing this. [[12:03:11]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5626	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, in accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked for the urgent need to treat the self-employed amendment 438/A(E) by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the BZÖ Rescue Pact for Austria as emergency aid for people and the economy rather than red-black post-chaker and the mismanagement. [[12:03:41]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the request 220/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5648	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a short debate on the reply 220/AB to Question 381/J by Dr Pirklhuber, colleagues on further measures in the field of GMO risk research in Austria by the Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth – for an explanation: this was so correct at the time because it was introduced before the new Federal Ministry Act. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Call for urgent request will take place at 3 p.m. I also announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF during the period from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. I am interrupting the sitting by 3 p.m. The sitting was suspended. [[12:04:21]] [[The meeting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 15.02 a.m.]] [[15:01:52]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on the BZÖ Rescue Pact for Austria as an emergency aid for people and business instead of red and black post-chacher and mismanagement (438/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e5713	We are moving towards urgent treatment of the self-employed motion for a resolution 438/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6689	I announce that the following Rules of Procedure were adopted in the circular route for the time of television transmission from 15 to 17 o'clock: Applicant for the reasons of the urgent request: 15 minutes, opinion of the member of the government: 15 minutes, first speech by the political groups, speech by another member of the government with 8 minutes, second speech by the political groups, and finally a third speech by the political groups with an estimated 3 minutes each. The text of the first and second rounds of the political groups must not exceed 12 minutes per group. Before the beginning of the last round, after consultation with the club presidents, the President-in-Office will distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. Any actual corrections will only be made after the end of the television broadcast. I now give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Bucher as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. 15 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6728	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have cordially invited you to this special meeting, because we know from many people from the economy, but also from the directly concerned daily, that unfortunately the Federal Government has not yet decided to accept their problems, that the Federal Government is smiling away this crisis, pulling its head off and hoping that it will move over Austria without really affecting us. In fact, we learn daily from the media that in Austria an economic crisis is already taking place unanticipatedly, which has arrived in the real economy, starting from an international financial and banking crisis that really causes upsurge within the Austrian economy – and the Federal Government, above all the vice-chanc and finance ministers, believes that it can, so to speak, resolve it in any way with a gable crucifixion. I really wonder who the client for your flight to the Republics and States of Eastern Europe was, if Mr. Konrad was present at the last government clause in Sillian – as we have heard – in order to give you this order to send you there to save the Austrian banks. I don't think we know what bomb is hidden behind it when we find out today that the Austrian banks, large banks and system banks have granted up to €300 billion in loans in the east. That is about the amount we implement in our modest economy in Austria per year. If only what Mr Notenbank-General believes is happening, that in about 10 to 20 percent of these loans we have spent in the East, they will become inflexible, then this will burden the banks and thus the Austrian taxpayers with €30 to €60 billion, ladies and gentlemen, and this would push Austria to the brink of financeability. In view of this overall situation, I think it is finally time to carry out some information – to explain whether and in what way we encounter this extraordinary situation. [[OBJECTIVES]] Banks are being set up here as if they had done great things in the East and have been developing for the reform countries without mentioning that they did not really deserve the money they had spent on it, that these Basel II directives have also been misused to make equity deposit by means of securities in order to distribute money to the Eastern European countries which the banks do not have at all. I can only be very surprised, therefore, if I have to hear again and again that these eastern commitments, which our Austrian banks have operated, are for the great benefit of Austria. – This is not for the benefit of Austria! We have already experienced twice that Austria, as a net number of money, has transferred to the East via the EU, on the other hand, that the Austrian banks have entered into second place as finance companies. At the end, when all of this collapses, the token of Austrian taxpayers is not fair. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We believe that this bank rescue package is the largest redistribution from arm to empire. They will therefore certainly no longer receive the BZÖ's vote for the rescue of the banks in the future. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] We believe that you, Mr. Finanzminister, must finally inform us of what this society, which was set up to save the banks – at €15 billion – is what this FINBAG is actually doing. Last year, €5.6 billion was received from the capital market and up to now just €900 million has been allocated to the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank. The rest of the money is locked in a safe somewhere. In the meantime, the total of the Republics over €45 million to pay only on interest. If this is an economic measure for which you want to be praised, then you have to stand far behind, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I also believe, above all, that if you are working with such incompetence in Austria, you must also expect to receive a departure from those countries you have traveled in recent days to make the Austrian Eastern Europe problem a pan-European problem. They will, I believe, be able to wait a long time for the support of all other countries until they finally show insight. So it must be over with all these veils and devastations. Finally, we need effective measures that bring this monetary circulation back into motion. I mean, we've been watching for a long time now, we've been waiting a total of five months for banks to distribute the money, that the private sector, the real economy, will be provided with loans. We believe that it will not be possible without a state bank, which is now in favour of what Austrian banks are refusing to do for a period of one and a half to two years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You are the cause of this credit terminal that we are suffering! Don't deny this, Minister of Finance! Her Minister of Economic Affairs has said quite clearly that the Austrian economy is currently sorry about this financial and credit crisis, does not receive loans, does not even receive operating funds in order to finance its ordinary economy. We are convinced that the high level of risk that Austrian banks are currently demanding does not allow investment to be made, nor does the Austrian economy prosper and develop. The second is: We call for a suspension of the Basel II directives, where we went to the US, where we really did not consider and listen to the fact that, with these Basel II directives, these strict credit directives, we are stifling the economy and giving the banks an instrument, namely, own funds by means of securities, so that they can then distribute a lot of loans through a lever. We need to see today and also register that many banks are no longer competitive internationally due to the lack of equity and therefore cannot make great reserves. The third thing is: We want a SME guarantee fund for small and small businesses, for small and medium-sized enterprises in our country you are always so proud of, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! In each speech by Mr Bartenstein or Mr Molterer, we heard in the past: The pride of the Austrian economy is the smallest and medium-sized economy, which must be promoted and supported. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, these companies are still waiting for this support. They are not given access to promotions and currently access to investment by banks is also blocked. If we do not intervene now in the light of this crisis situation, this will cost the economy of Austria and, above all, your budget, Mr Finanzminister, in the future, and you will have a real financing problem. But what does this federal government do? – It smiles away from this crisis, ignores this crisis and deals with post-achers, pro-poors and mismanagement, as we have not experienced in this form in the last ten or 15 years. For example, the ORF, where Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann emphasized that ORF should not be AUA. Do you know what you said? – Da- you have agreed that at AUA you have the whole responsibility to bear that you have driven the AUA to the wall with your policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are firmly convinced that this Ildefonso-proport: red-black-red-black-red-black, these post-chachers are not the ones... – Yes, in ORF is the unfortunately lived present, my very dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] They want to color an independent radio in Austria, which is financed by the fees, red and black, according to the Ildefonso principle. We will not vote for this, but we are for further independence. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are also opposed to you using the ORF as much as the Chamber of Workers, the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Commerce, where red and black can divide and do everything they want, ladies and gentlemen. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] As you do not act, in the past we have noticed at many close-to-state companies whether this is now the ASFINAG, the OMV, the AWS, the Association or the FMA, everywhere the same principle: Ildefonso: red-black-red-black-red-black. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] This is, of course, to the detriment of the Republic. Where you worked, you did damage everywhere. Now let's just draw on the ASFINAG, Federal Chancellor! You have been in charge of ASFINAG in recent years. There are now 12 billion euros of debt, and the board was fired with a clearance of 2 million euros. With the ÖBB: € 21 billion in debt. Mr. Ötsch fired you with €800 000 and €300 000 you have issued for any consulting orders that you have not yet been able to concreteize. No one in this Republic knows what advice Mr Huber has, how he works for the Republic – but he gets once again €300 000 in cash! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you do not already have red and black managers that can lead these companies profitably in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, then at last try it with capable people, with an objective call, out of the managers who are really able to lead these close-to-state companies. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A lesson for incompetence, ladies and gentlemen, is the AUA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] There you have really proved that you are not able to run even one company almost economically. At the AUA, we have now come to believe that it has 1 billion euros in debt, that we are throwing them to Lufthansa and that Lufthansa is giving another 500 million euros of tax money. And now you want to finish Mr Ötsch with €1.1 million, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's a scandal! It must finally be over with executions for unsuccessful managers. We demand that this settlement be reserved for Mr. Ötsch for any claims for damages that the Republic will impose on Mr. Ötsch in the near future. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] With the AUA, with the ÖBB, with these two great pleas you would have cost us enough already – no, it may be a little more! Mr Grosz pointed out: Ads, fees, consulting costs. All in all, the damage caused by this federal government, which has operated this union for the last two years, amounts to €1.8 billion, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The superstition of this federal government is still bringing this country to the abyss. It is, as I think, absolutely crucial that we finally think about reform processes, that you try out of your zeal to control this republic some way where it belongs, that you finally end up with this ÖIAG, because Mr Michaelis is the most expensive newspaper reader in that republic, who has only one task of monitoring the price development of the close-to-state companies. [[Approval by the BZÖ]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, reason for an Austrian infrastructure holding company by combining all close-to-state companies under one roof – network, Telekom, Post, ÖBB, ASFINAG, OMV – and put them all under a strategic holding concept that meets the interests of our business location Austria economically. [[OBJECTIVES]] .. Our comprehensive request, which we are making today, contains many proposals, from tax relief to recovery of the economy. You can convince yourself, ladies and gentlemen! This alone, Mr Cap, is already a government programme that we are presenting today, so comprehensively thought-out and intelligent that it can stimulate this Austria and this economic location in Austria. I hope you go inside and take a look at this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What Austria now urgently needs is a government that is designed and not managed, a government with a spirit of reform and a power of reform, a government that sees an opportunity in this crisis, ladies and gentlemen. Finally start with the work, Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6952	The President-in-Office of the Council has now referred to the President-in-Office of the Council for an opinion. 15 minutes speaking time. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e6973	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! When I read the urgent request, I was already curious about how the opinion will turn out. I must say that Mr Bucher has tried to leave at least the highlights of polemics in this urgent request, because if one reads it, starting from the choice of words to the allegations, then, I must say, I understand that Mr Bucher has tried to get his speech as far away as possible from the content... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can read it again!]] – You probably wrote it, Mr. Westenthaler; I had a hard time suspecting you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Read it quietly!]] In the case of the question of the speculation losses of the ÖBB simply to forget that at the ÖBB, but also at the ASFINAG many of the mentioned ones were ordered at a time when you put the competent minister and were in the government, is already somehow a strong piece, but memory gaps can be filled up here and there. [[Abg. Bucher: You have watched for two years!]] There is also a discussion on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to come to the essential point, because I think it is right to check in these days whether the measures we are taking as a federal government work, how they work, and whether further measures are necessary. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a good start!]] This can best be seen if one knows the measures, Mr Westenthaler, if the measures already work and if one can verify the impact. We have put in place a number of measures whose effect is verifiable, starting with the security of deposits on the savings books of the population. Our bank package has led to times when – please remember! – many were unsure whether their money on the bank was well removed, which was put out of dispute. We have concluded agreements with a liability package for banks, but also the possibility that 15 billion on the way to the participation model have been offered capital strengthening for banks. The fact that these agreements – in one case signed, in the other cases, the funds will be available in these days and weeks – will be made or in part have already been made, is proof that we have unanimously decided to do the right thing in this House and subsequently also implement it in good time in the Ministry of Finance under the direction of the Minister of Finance of this bank package. Europe as a whole is discussing the question: Is that enough? Europe as a whole is discussing the question: How does the economy come back to life, how can confidence be strengthened between banks? There is no one in Europe or in the United States who does not deal with the most diverse models: the model of a bad bank, the outsourcing of toxic assets, the outsourcing of problems that have arisen in a bank are discussed in many countries. We have decided on another way, for one, as I mean, right way. We have not decided to transfer and simply take over anything, but we have decided to ask for interest on this money, of course, and also to conclude agreements that small, medium-sized and industrial enterprises will be credited. Now no one can tell you, if it is not clear to you – and there is no such thing as if they could look into the future – whether these measures are sufficient, but at least there have been measures that have created a lot of reliability, security and trust. We are not yet satisfied with the fact that in individual cases businesses say that they are much more required of collateral. We also have no pleasure in having risk supplements in the spread that sometimes spoil loans. We also know that when loans are made available, we have to pay very close attention to whether this happens. But that this is the right way, both the banking package and the preference of infrastructure measures as well as a relief of citizens through a tax reduction, which confirms a number of economic researchers – regardless of ideological or political orientation. They confirm to us that we are second in Europe with an economic package. We have acted in good time here, both in time and in the extent and importance, in a timely and appropriate manner. I can only remind you of this: starting with a tax reduction of €2.3 billion, a family package of €0.5 billion and all the measures you know and of course I could list to you. On the demands that are sometimes raised. – I should like to address, for example, the demands of the Greens that we have shared, such as, in these times too, not to play the issue of ecology against those of economics and prefer measures that use ecology to achieve ecological objectives, to prefer infrastructure measures that use education, such as the promotion of school renovations. That is something we are working out step by step. In the agreements with the countries, we have just agreed on a volume of more than € 1 billion in terms of thermal rehabilitation for 2009/2010. We have also agreed to our own programmes for environmental measures up to the energy check and discuss detailed measures that we will still decide on. And we have today presented to the Council of Ministers the educational package, investment in infrastructure school. All of this corresponds to if you count it properly, including investment in the rail and the preferred effects for the rail, many of your suggestions. That is why, I believe, it is not necessary, in economically difficult times, to deal with this, but where one is for the same thing, it is no shame to say this together: to this bank package, to prefer infrastructure measures, to relieve the population, to strengthen the purchasing power of the population, to promote education. – All measures to which – and I think that would be nice – all could stand in this House instead of always formulating it as if it were directed against the other. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Measures against unemployment are measures which must be put in place in Europe at the same time by as many countries as possible. Only when the economy works will there be another opportunity for safe jobs, a chance for more employment. We know very well – very precisely! – that our model of short-term work, which is very much used and which also requires significant budget resources, is not a model that creates long-term work. Work can only be created through research, development, concrete measures, security of finance for businesses, through markets that work through correspondingly high demand. Only in this way can work be created. But it is true that we are setting up a flexible model of short work, that we have expanded it and developed and applied it together with businesses, with the social partners. The fact that every day the number of applications for short-time work increases is not a negative sign, but compared to unemployment, this is a right way because it offers 18 months of opportunity for the individual worker to use this time to improve his qualification, and because there is a chance for businesses not to give up valuable employees – valuable employees who are being cancelled elsewhere in Europe, where there is no such model, who are lost elsewhere, are also lost in the operation. It's true if every anniversary speech of a company begins the management almost in line with the sentence: Our biggest capital is our employees. – Therefore, even in difficult times, one should not simply go the way of termination, but where there is a chance, such as with models of short work for a certain period of time, to seek a replacement and a compensation. That we in Europe agree with our measures that it is on 1st. March gives a European summit where the Heads of Government will again be discussed together, which additional, simultaneous or perhaps even joint measures are possible, an absolutely right path in such an export-dependent economy, where 60 percent of goods and services are dependent on trade. That we often want more, including in the European Union, is legitimate. That we often make proposals towards the real economy, away from financial speculation, that we demand more control, that we also want consequences from this economic crisis to be removed, instead of simply pumping money into the agenda and then re-establishing the same house of cards, of course, is our work and is one of our actions that we are moving forward in Europe and is also moving forward in the European debate within the European Union. These include, of course, those measures which the Minister of Finance has so supported in recent days and which must also be made aware of throughout Europe. It is important that we ensure stability even in more difficult times in Europe, even in those countries in Eastern Europe, in south-eastern Europe, where we have been very proud in the past, where we have always called ourselves a hub and proud of this hub function of our country, where we have been able to announce every week that we have been able to reach opportunities in export, banking, but also for individual industrial companies, often small and medium-sized enterprises, in the East. We want to draw attention to the fact that we were good friends in Eastern Europe not only as long as everything went well, but not only when it goes up again, we realize that these are the big markets and market opportunities with great potentials of the future, but that we are working on common solutions for these markets in Europe now. All of this, as I mean, should not go into polemic discussions. It is clear that individual businesses for which we are responsible also face major reform tasks and that it will not be easy, for example in the postal sector, in the field of telecommunications, with regard to the competitiveness of rail freight transport. Where companies are in direct competition, it is not a simple matter. It is not true that one can write and decide a resolution with four points and then everything goes well, but of course we are required, especially in economically difficult times, to deal with these participations particularly carefully, also sensitively and forward-lookingly and where once an error occurs, to learn from the error and to draw the consequence and to become active earlier next time. This is also one of the important tasks that we can do in our country. However, there are many measures that we cannot put in the country alone, but where we depend on the economic researchers to tell us how the latest figures look worldwide, internationally or Europe-wide, with only a part of them being taxable by ourselves. We shall, however, move forward with all our strength, with great effort and with the measures that we have already decided. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] No one can promise the population that this will be an easy task in the next few months. And no one knows if the optimists are right, they say that this year is going to be difficult, but then everything shows up again. No one can claim this honestly at this time or even with facts. But everyone needs to know that, compared to other countries, we are better off with the opportunities and opportunities we have in Austria, with the measures we have put in place, and the measures we are going to put in place, and we are important to the labour market, jobs and people in the economy in our country, who are workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7094	We are now going into the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Cap is just like Abg. Scheibner on the way to the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That can't be true!]] I'm not aware that there's a different order, and that's why I'm on the speaker's list as next clubman Dr. Cap. I'll put the watch for the next round. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That can't be true! There is a urgent request, it is always the same line of speakers: founders, ministers, and then someone from the group again! - Cap, sit down!]] - Wait a minute! – Ladies and gentlemen, this was a mistake of Parliament’s management. [[President Mag. Prammer speaks to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate.]] Of course, Mr Scheibner is speaking. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] I put the clock at 8 minutes each. The time that is not spent will then be added to the 12 minutes of the second speaker in your group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7182	Thank you, Madam President. – The confusion is great, but obviously not only here in Parliament, but also in the Federal Government. And that's our theme today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We, Federal Chancellor, do not want to wait again, review and evaluate, just as you announce it here today, but we want it to be done. We want finally to ensure survival to small and medium-sized enterprises too. We want people to be able to afford something again that they can overcome this crisis. – We want to help them! This is important and necessary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do not polemise here, Mr Bundeskanzler, about an urgent request of the opposition! You said again today that you should “wait. ” This is the x-te time! As early as December, you said you had to wait and see if the packages were grabbing. In January, you said in Question Time that it could not be finally assessed whether the bank package would be seized and the loans would be passed on to the economy. How long do you want to wait? Where are you moving, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – Always only in the section and in your Federal Chancellery? Go out to the people, go to the farms! They'll tell you nothing's been passed on! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The taxpayer may, with his tax money, be liable for the bank’s speculation losses, but must go as a bitter to the banks – and get nothing there! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] And if he's lucky to get a credit – Mr. Col. von der ÖVP, you too should support your people! – in spite of declining interest rates, he may still pay 2% of the liquidity surcharge from the ECB in order to compensate for it accordingly. This is the scandal we want to talk about here! People need support from the Federal Government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We all here in this House, Mr. Federal Chancellor – this is not about opposition or government – were ready to make the banks the wall for their speculation losses, very quickly. There was a special meeting – there has already been a newly elected National Council, but the old National Council still had to meet – to secure this bank package quickly. Yes, we were also willing to guarantee deposit guarantee – because it is important that there is security – and to say to the banks: With €100 billion in tax money, we give up total liability to guarantee your speculation losses. Good or bad. But at that time we expected that this will be implemented quickly, that it will be checked once, how high these speculation losses are and what has led to this being stopped in the future. Nothing happened! We also expected banks to pass it on quickly, and that is not just the big one. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say that short-time work is helpful today, I would like to resist this: Yes, it may be that short-time work helps large businesses to pull away over the valley sole – hopefully it's just a valley sole. But the little ones don't have this possibility. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Oh yes!]] – What does “oja” mean? Excuse me, Minister of Economic Affairs: If a small company has five or ten employees, a small trader – you need to know from practice – who cannot even get 5 000 or 6 000 € overcrowding before Christmas so that he can pay out Christmas money, how should he survive with short work? This is this excretion of the Federal Government, which is immense – immense! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then we have a financial market supervision that runs the big ones – where is the control over these speculations among the banks? – but the little ones fighting for survival are still putting obstacles in the way where bureaucrats work around instead of flexibly and quickly helping businesses. These are the things we need to talk about here. Federal Chancellor, don't wait! The time for waiting has expired. We have said that we need to help quickly. Now four months have passed – and nothing has happened! I do not understand this at all, because the companies that are now fighting for survival and who are losing this fight are those who will release workers tomorrow, next week, next month. And I also do not understand that the banks are acting so restrictively, because if a loan is not given now, the result is that the person who is then released cannot repay his credit, which is then “in the air”. It is a cycle that leads down to the distance, and it is even worsen this crisis. I understand that they say, yes, we need to help the banks again now because of their speculations in the East, we have all benefited. - Who benefited? Have the people who now have to stand for it benefited? No, the banks and the managers have benefited well! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Okay, let's help them, but first – and I say now: first! – Let us help people and small and medium-sized enterprises. This would be important now and will be implemented first and foremost! Mr Bundeskanzler, look at this request! We want a rehabilitation pact, an aid package – all of us. Mr. Cap, it's actually a shame you didn't talk to me. You would probably have invited us all to work together again. – Well, where is the common ground, where is the Joint Committee, where is a joint initiative that we say, we are putting ourselves at a table – government, opposition, the social partners – and we are really trying to link a rescue package for the Austrian economy, a rescue package for Austrian taxpayers, a rescue package for Austrian families?- Oh, my God! We are here to protect ladies and gentlemen – but only the speculators at the expense of taxpayers, for this you will not be able to win us! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They say tax relief. – 2 billion €, which is the cold progression of recent years. 6 billion € would be necessary, ladies and gentlemen! That's what the economic researchers say. There you will find yourself again at the post distributions, Mr. Bundeskanzler. They say that SPÖ does not want to see the Commissioner of the EU. – It doesn't matter what party it comes from. This should be a good Commissioner, a good Austrian representative in Brussels. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I don't know why one still thinks in these party political barriers. Once at EU level, it should be remembered that Basel II should be suspended accordingly and – across Europe – that the stock exchanges should become a trading venue and not become a casino, as has been the case in recent times. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] Mr Streissler – not us – has already agreed on economic competence. However, this would be necessary now for real initiatives to be taken with a massive tax relief, direct payments to the population and for a stopover. It's immense: The electricity prices are first increased by 20 percent, now they are reduced by 10 percent – and the profits are falling again. These are the points – one to one – that would be to be put off to really help people. But we haven't heard from you in this regard either. I'm just telling you, if you show responsibility, you don't have to smile. – This “faymannization” of internal policy, namely to cover everything, to smile and to speak beautifully, must have ended at last! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That the speculators in the banks still organise surveys, which are then published in the semi-format newspapers, which also belong to these banks, and in which it is said that it is all right anyway – that is it, this fogging and obscurity! Mr Bundeskanzler, the people deserved to have a real representation in the Federal Government and here in this Parliament. Create You and us have this pact to help Austria get out of the crisis!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7323	Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7344	So, honestly, I believed that at the pace of his own speech, Mr Scheibner wanted to run from what I understood about the content, because I would like to tell you the following: [[Abg. Scheibner: You can save the polemics!]] The selection of topics for your special meeting today under the title “Proporz, Postenschacher und Partybuchwirtschaft” is extremely courageous for the BZÖ. [[Abg. Grosz: The BZÖ! ... illiterate!]] I thought that was the subject of your club meeting to rework your former government participation. I'd have thought you were presenting it there. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] The guest speaker would have been “Professor” Hubert Gorbach, who as a former vice-channer could have contributed to how the orange talent sheds loud supertypes there. There's a whole list of names for that. [[New cheerfulness and applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the speech from the nineties!]] For example: Huber, ÖBB. – That seems to have been under Gorbach, or am I cheating? Reichhold, the “happy farmer”, ASFINAG. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] - I'm just counting here! I understand a number of names. The whole mess and disaster, which ruled at that time, had a single name, that is, Gorbach! In other words, you would have come out of your speech for a moment and have to say that before we go to the government, let's take a look at ourselves. – That would have happened, we say, the first twenty thirty minutes. So much for that so that it's clear. [[Abg. Bucher: That was the talk of 2006!]] But you could have done something different at the club meeting, also again under the title “Proporz, Postenschacher und Partybuchwirtschaft”: Carinthia, model Carinthia. – Why don’t I hear anything about the model Carinthia? [[Abg. Petzner: Come on!]] We used to hear something about the “model Carinthia” so often, but since the “trend” in February an interesting article entitled “Model Carinthia” has appeared as paralysed Lindworm, nothing can be heard. I thought, na servus, that's going to be something, I'm going to look into what's called the paralysed Lindworm. I'm sure an abdrenal BZÖler will have been treated. This is where we are discussing loud issues that are of great importance to the Carinthia. So the economic research institute alone – I quote here – says: A land rich in lakes and mountains and a holiday paradise is a tourist follower. – That’s what this highly interesting article says. [[Abg. Petzner: Wrong! I'll tell you the statistics!]] – Mr Petzner, you can say something anyway. At least that's one of the points. Or: Carinthia is 18 times more indebted per capita than California. – I like that too: Indebted 18 times higher than California! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – But while Arnold Schwarzenegger is there calling out the emergency – stands here – the BZÖ continues to drive our federal state into debt traps. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is from the Greens!]] In short, it is always claimed in this article – and I just quote – that event culture is going ahead of a policy for the Carinthians. – Now I also understand why you don't come out here and talk about the model Carinthia. [[Abg. Bucher: We are not in the Carinthian Landtag! This is the High House!]] I understand that when I read all this through, unemployment there on average increases significantly faster than in the other federal states and Carinthia is the highest indebted state. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're the wrong steamer!]] - Yeah, yeah, you don't hear that, but you just have to stand by for it now. Thank God there are many hard-working Carinthians and many hard-working mayors who oppose this orange wall and make sure that Carinthia is still a federal country where you like to go on vacation and where you like to work. You have to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] - That's how it looks. That's right! Fortunately, however, there is now a federal government that is taking exactly the steps that are necessary for the whole country to do something here. 6 billion – 6 billion! – are used to boost the economy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] – You should write along and not smog with your finger so that your finger can get at least some sense of meaning. – 6 billion have been set up for the boosting of the economy, 2.3 billion alone for tax relief, all of which have something to do with workers, employees, middle class, small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are all very glad that this package is also tied up here in this width, because, as the economic research institutes say, these are the forecasts – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany did this in his speech – we have to expect a sharp counterwind. [[Call at BZÖ: Who has what of it?]] [[Abg. Bucher: Has money already flown?]] [[Abg. Grosz: People don't have a job! They cash and travel to Tuscany on holiday!]] Now the population is exclusively interested: Do we have a government we can rely on? Do we have a government that ensures that we are future-proof in Austria? - Yes! As the first economic package was in the Christmas season, there is a second economic package, there is investment in infrastructure, in railways, in schools, in education, in the entire labour market, in training, there is investment everywhere! You hate to hear from BZÖ, but it is necessary that you know that. You should then report at your election events on what the Federal Government is doing in these areas, for example. The forecasts are such that you have to react, and it will also react. That is why it was so good that we decided on this 100 billion package of guarantees. [[Abg. Bucher: Activities, don't respond!]] – Not the banks get 100 billion. This is often misunderstood. This is a guarantee! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Who gets it?]] It is good that liabilities amounting to € 85 billion and € 15 billion are available for the capitalisation of banks. You should have learned in some training at BZÖ, how important it is that the banks work, but it is also important that you see what happens to public funds, that there is some transparency and that public money, when it is used, is of course also used – and that was the deal with the banks – to ensure that there is credit that the economy is moving. [[Abg. Bucher: Where are the billions?]] You shake your head, Mr. Bucher. They think of the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Carinthia. That's where I'd shake my head. I wouldn't stop shaking at all if I thought of this bank. I understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are all measures! These € 510 million for the relief of families with children are of utmost importance right now, in these times. Especially now it is important that the purchasing power is strengthened that you have something in the wallet that you can really buy something when you go shopping. The consumption is something that really works, and that's why you have to keep it going. But it's also about infrastructure, it's also about businesses, it's also about companies. This is difficult enough for many companies and also for banks that are intertwined internationally, where this often slips over, but it is important that there is really all that is done, which is of utmost importance at that time. You know, I have looked very closely at this paper, your urgent request. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] – Well, not at all confused, because nothing can confuse you in there, I can tell you that right now. This is so clear a senseless propaganda that you operate there. [[Abg. Head: Miracles!]] But you've actually chosen a wrong topic today. You should not have chosen this subject for the urgent request, but you should have taken a subtitle. Here's what it says: “If the donkey is too good, he’s going to dance on the ice!” – That was the motto for your special session today, otherwise you can’t evaluate what you have planned here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7657	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. I'll also set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7678	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This crisis really has it in itself. In fact, we are in a very serious situation, because this downturn, which has already been expected in the course of the economic cycle – that was clear to all of us – comes, triggered by this financial crisis in America, another doubling, yes, a potential for this problem. And no one here should be aware of how deep this development can go, because the fact is that: We have not yet reached the bottom of this development. But – the head of the Economic Research Institute recently said it – Austrian politics tends to react correctly in this crisis. - I mean, Aiger is right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you have not yet realized: The long list of these crisis intervention measures, as well as the extent of this package, with 2% of gross domestic product, which is clearly above what the EU has recommended, can be seen clearly above what most other countries are doing. And the list is enormously long: early investment by the federal government, particularly in the construction sector; new incentives for environmental investments; keyword ‘thermal renovation’; tax incentives for private sector investment; keyword ‘early depreciation’; [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which one?]] Release of taxpayers, €3 billion in relief in wage and income tax, focus families. But there is also the tax advantage of donations for humanitarian purposes for the self-employed. Furthermore, the flexibility of short work: What helps most to keep people in employment rather than quit is now flexibly flexibilised, extended to a particular extent, and this will give businesses the opportunity to keep people. In addition, there are interest-based loans and liabilities for SMEs through the AWS. But, dear friends, a state bank? That can't be the solution. What would be the result? All the bad risks are going to this state bank? The other banks would probably thank themselves for that, I assume. Is that what you want? We free all banks from their bad risks and bundle them with the state? – It’s all better to get the banks under the arms with liabilities and capital increases, for which they have to pay interest, but they solve their own problems and not at the expense of the general public. [[Abg. Bucher: The Federal Chancellor's Economic Advisor: Androsch!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this coalition does not have the solution to all the problems in hand, no one has that at present, but we are seriously addressing the problems, and this in an internationally highly respected way. And what are you doing in such a time of crisis? – They organize political activism, self-schedules such as this special session. This does not solve any problem in this country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor has already suggested it before, without expressing it in detail: The APA has taken out a few keywords from your urgent request today, dear friends of the BZÖ. There's talk of "sugars", of "tanning donkeys", of "jurassic park" and of "operette phantoms". In fact, there is only one joke left by the head of state Dörfler in this collection. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Maybe he's coming!]] Is this the seriousness with which you want to deal with the problems? – We seriously address the problems, not the polemics and the choice of words, as you do. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But let's talk about a few points that have been raised: Was the crisis predictable? – Surely not this crisis. [[Abg. May. Darmann: For two years!]] That an economic downturn would come, yes, but this dimension of the crisis, someone should seriously claim that it would have been foreseeable! As manager salary, I don't want to hide at all. We have a clean job creation plan with a stencil regulation for employment also from managers in close-to-state businesses. There is talk of industry-wide private-sector contracts to be taken into account. – Do we want in the close-to-state businesses the managers of the market that are worse than those in private businesses? I'm sure not! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, what needs to be clear is the following: Bonus payments have to be oriented to criteria that sometimes didn't fit. In the future, the long-term, sustainable security of companies must be particularly important when there are bonus agreements with such managers, but the basic salaries we leave alone, and we do not even regulate them by law. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Not very enthusiastic!]] Also a word about the ORF: The ORF is in a very critical situation as regards the economic situation of the company. What is still missing from this company is a clear concept – and that must already come from the responsible institutions. There is no strategy; without strategy one cannot have a structural discussion or even a personal discussion in a company. You quote from the BZÖ in your urgent request a whole page of any newspaper speculations with names that have some time stood. – Is this a serious deal about the problems that this Austrian flagship ORF has? They have quite different problems than discussing who might be in any function at the end of the discussion. Of course, it's important to get good people there, but one by one. A successful business concept, a successful strategy for implementation and, finally, the right people for the implementation of this strategy – and not otherwise – are needed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a beautiful country where skilled people make sure that we have enormous prosperity. [[Call the BZÖ: In short work!]] Nevertheless: It's not all perfect in this country, and this government coalition is not beautiful either. We have problems to deal with this crisis now. We have problems in a few close-to-state establishments – but they also had other neighbouring countries – in the AUA, at the ORF, at the health insurance companies. There could be a long list of things to solve, but unlike you, especially from BZÖ, dear friends, we do the following: We mount these problems seriously, lead one by one to one solution and do not polish around the area!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7854	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. I'll also set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7875	Madam President. Dear Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We do not know exactly where to start today in the context of the special session, when it comes to talking about the mismanagement that Mr Klubobmann Kopf has just said about “serious”. As for the seriality with the ÖBB, the AUA – according to “serious” methods we had to experience here, up to the post office, to the banking crisis, to loud “serious” practices you have presented here, where the Austrians really had to experience that unfortunately a completely unsavory policy has been made up to the ORF, to the most diverse areas where funds have been speculated – it should be €600 million for the ÖBB – until the former AUVA chief, Mr Schelling, who now, after speculating €30 million, is the appropriate man to be used as head of the main association of social security companies, because he has the right party book. – You call it serious! But this really depends on the Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What ÖVP and SPÖ have done here in this House since the start of the Red and Black Federal Government – and this has been in office since January 2007, that is, for almost two years – is really a negative miracle. I believe that such negative miracles, as you have left them in the last two years, have not yet existed in the history of the Second Republic: a federal government that has failed in all possible areas was not prepared to stand by the Austrians with a tax reduction, but has negated all the problems, always, year after year, said there is no money for necessary sustainable discharge measures – but hardly the banks crack, powerful a banking system, then one is immediately there with it to smite the banks €15 billion without control. But that's what I'm coming to talk about afterwards. Let's take a look at some of the facts in the case of mismanagement: The proceeds of the ASFINAG Boards cost €700 000 per Board of Directors. Only so that Mr Faymann could use his friends did he transfer these costs to the Austrian taxpayer! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Only so that Mr. Faymann can have his friends inside, he simply took note of the existing contracts, pronounced cancellations, of course paid references – essentially his friends sit in there! Nothing has gotten better in the system. Or: The ÖBB Boards Söllinger and Huber sink up €623 million, but still get the full finish. Huber cashes 820 000 € at his exit. At AUA, a co-donation of €500 million is given, so that you can give the company AUA a gift after you have flown it against the wall. But Mr. Ötsch goes home with good wind, as it looks, with 1.1 million euros of finish. This is your red-black system, as it is lived, and you seem to be trying to continue your policy in this way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, however, the care allowance, at the same time the pensions, the heating allowance, are being beaten with a wide range of necessary relief measures for their own population. There you are, there is a package that was presented last week as part of your government clause – where only €2 billion are necessary to cover the cold progression that we have experienced since 2005. Only to compensate for the cold progression, only € 2 billion is required. Your tax reform doesn't even feel the Austrian population! They are not ready, as all economic experts say, and how we have been trying to implement liberties here since 2005 with countless applications to finally implement a sustainable tax reduction of over €6.5 billion for their own population. That's where you save! For the super-rich you already had the money because there you have decided to halve the foundation tax so that the super-rich can save € 600 million a year. On the other hand, you had no money for your own population. You're not ready to make nails with heads. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There you are not willing to implement a family tax division that would relieve your own Austrian population, the families. You are not prepared to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can finally re-establish the economy. There is also no reduction in entry tax rates. This has been ignored by your side until now, but would be urgently necessary. There's a lot to do, but you're not ready to act. But when it comes to the banks, you're here. Since you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, are always talking about the invitation to do something common: You refuse the work, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! It is significant for your approach if we have to look at today's situation and see that we have not yet had an Economic Committee session. Until the Constitutional Session on 10 October, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. There is no economic committee to this day, where we need to deal with and decide on laws and applications. ==References== ==References== Last June, there was no Economic Committee meeting! They refuse the work here in the House and are not willing to talk about it. It is therefore good that a special meeting has been convened for today to highlight these problems. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] But in the banking crisis, you have shown that you are not really able to operate a proper crisis management. We all have in common, because we are well aware of our responsibilities, said it needs a bank package. I still have in my ear the elected Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer, who said: Of course, we will put legal control mechanisms behind it. Of course, we will not simply throw this money into the banks. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] But up to date it is! Nothing's happened! To date, they have not used the Court of Auditors to control the balance sheets of banks, where one might have to insist that there could be balance sheet falsifications, as has been the case with Hypo Alpe-Adria. You're not doing anything like that! You are not ready to finally take the managers to the affected banks for responsibility that speculated the money in a kind of casino humanity! [[Abg. Head: They're in court!]] You are not willing to carry out manager's content covers that would be necessary! If you take public money because you have failed, and you need public money, you also need a manager's salary cover. Of course! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then there was also a need for shares of the state, the Republic, in those banks that can be sidelined with billions in order to send supervisory councils and to safeguard the interests of taxpayers. Then, of course, there was also a requirement that banks should be refocused on core business. It then needed a requirement that this money should only be used to strengthen the Austrian internal market. But I understand you don't want to. Given the Raiffeisen-Giebelkreuz regime, which is represented here today by Ferry Maier and other ÖVP delegates, and the fact that Mr. Konrad is the general lawyer of this red-black federal government, I understand that you will be happy to do all that Mr. Konrad suggests. This is the state in the state that we have to experience, where an armin Wolf has rightly said that this Raiffeisen group already has more media than grain silos in the country today. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] That is why we should be very, very careful and pay particular attention to who is making a policy of who is leading this government around the gang. And then it is really necessary to point this out and counter it so that our people in Austria are finally relieved of social policy and the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs are again experiencing corresponding reliefs in order to ensure jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e7988	The next speaker is Mrs. Club President Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8009	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Throughout Europe, the scale of the crisis is being discussed very seriously, especially in view of the fact that forecasts are changing almost weekly, which is to change downwards. This is not happening in Austria. The speeches by Federal Chancellor Faymann and also by Mr Cap have shown that one believes that with forecasts and with a basis from November one can solve the problems that are now more dramatic every day. And that's the capital mistake you've just committed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have found yourself in East Tyrol to a clause – long arrival, very short time of discussion – but instead of what you should have done there, namely actually discussing new measures that are absolutely necessary – and that is indisputable – you have removed old concepts, old tax reform plans. You have not thus taken responsibility towards many thousands of people in Austria. Let us explain what we are talking about: When we talk about economic recovery measures, about economic activity as a word in itself, what is behind them? In essence, there is the fate of many thousands of people behind it, who, in the absence of measures, with lack of support, are now becoming extra unemployed in the absence of political far-sightedness, or who have to cope with further loss of income through short-time work, and these are a whole series of people. That's naked numbers, and you have to look at what's behind them. We speak of 40 000 to 50 000 people who have to go into short-time work. We speak of 30 000, perhaps 50 000 people who are becoming unemployed this year. But that's an average number. This means that over the year more than 90 000, 100 000, 150 000 people will be unemployed over months, will have drastic income losses, with quite, very serious problems in everyday life, with overindebtedness, with no-knowing how the family continues to struggle. And for these people, you don't take responsibility if you rest here on your “Lorberry” – under quotation marks – and say that we have done everything, nothing is necessary anymore. That's a hell of a thing! - Yes, that's what you're saying! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The basis of your assumptions, the basis of your entire tax concept, the basis of your budget path, the basis of your economic-invigorating measures – with a question mark – are figures from November. They still assumed a stagnation at the time. We are picked up by other numbers every day – and you move there at a snail pace, and behind you comes the avalanche. That's why I'm here today: You have not understood the extent of this crisis to this day, and you are not prepared to oppose it. Other countries are doing this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The United States, for example, is doing this. You, I think, on the election evening, when Barack Obama was elected, you were just as happy and wanted to compare yourself with him. Mr Cap has said that what Barack Obama is doing in the USA has been Faymann in Austria for a long time. So you can really smile. The US invests and will invest in a scale of 5.8 percent of its economic performance. The Austrian economic package is in a scale of 0.75 percent, which is already dedressed from all the PR and advertising measures. You want to give a little à la Grasser the impression that it would be more behind here than it actually is. You have to deal with these numbers. The worst: We have now heard new announcements, today the Minister of Finance has announced, it will be bitterly saved. The discretion expenditure will be reduced. There will be a very restrictive budget. With this, you are restoring exactly the capital mistakes you have made in the past, namely, in a phase where you need to invest. What does it mean to save on discretion expenditure? This means the loss of further jobs in the youth sector, the social sector, education, the loss of jobs, especially in the third sector, where we need each and every one of them very much. With this pea-counter policy, you believe you can meet the crisis. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A more serious discussion would certainly be appropriate and you will once be willing to open your eyes to the actual extent, to show a certain wide view and also a certain courage. However, today we have noticed that there is no willingness at all, but one rests on what is supposed to have happened. But once you listen – this is not only about small and medium-sized enterprises, it also concerns the whole of the old house renovation area –: There are far too few projects, and no one knows where the impact of these measures announced by the government is currently taking place. There is no effect at the moment, and that is why the unemployment rate is increasing – on your responsibility. A level that is extremely important and which the SPÖ is not prepared to understand in any way is the European economic policy level. This is the only thing you really need and have to boost. With a relapse in nationalist, protectionist models in each country, we will not get very far in Europe. And that's your big Achilles, also that of Federal Chancellor Faymann: You are not prepared to recognize this European dimension at Weitem. And if you go back to the point of view, that's all God-given and comes from Outside, and we can't do anything anyway, and if you don't use this dimension, don't work in ECOFIN for European economic policy, then in Austria we'll have a much bigger disaster than ever. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also wonder what we have an economic research institute for, why the government is doing this if it is satisfied with Wifo saying that the government tends to take steps in the right direction. Please take the other proposals, too, and consider why the Wifo insists that in the area of discharge of the lower incomes, in a scale of one billion, we still need to do so in the area of thermal rehabilitation. That is where you can join our proposals today. Unfortunately, it is very little time, and the theme range is wide. I would also like to say two or three more sentences on the ORF. There is much to criticise at ORF whether this is the programme design, whether it is the economic activity, not a question, but: In the face of the pretext of taking up this economic activity, of implementing a tough pro-pore policy from the Director-General to the last pot plant, we will certainly not accept this as a green! I'm sure not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We will continue to insist on the independence of the information and oppose any resistance, Mr Faymann, if you actually plan on regaining the information in party policy. Be very careful, because you will have massive resistance from the Greens and Austrian civil society! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last minute I'm still dedicated to the BZÖ. I think it is incredibly courageous that you trust in the concept of ‘mismanagement’ in the Austrian Parliament, especially in the light of what is actually happening in Carinthia. – Mr Petzner is already heading forward. – What you have done there about insatiable access to the tax payment fund, namely to misuse with unscathed party advertising tax money to finance your election campaign, in the order of 1.2 million €, that ridicules every description! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Wow-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] Ads of Dörfler in this order – only of photos of him. What's that supposed to be? That's supposed to be information for the population? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] You haven't quite understood it yet: There is a difference between party financing and public money in the state government. That doesn't belong to the BZÖ! This is intended to do work for the citizen and the citizen. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] The Carinthian alone educator at the poverty line gets 100 € from you, and the colleague Dörfler, Scheuch, Dobernig and Co get 1.2 million € so you can see her photo in whole Carinthia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] I think that's a real scandal. And you are very brave that, using the word “Misswirtschaft”, you want to hide these signs of the mismanagement in Carinthia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8185	Next speaker: Mr Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8206	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are in these days and weeks with the implementation of two economic packages and also with the tax relief that we have decided in the Federal Government – with the tax relief for the medium-sized, one own family package and also with tax relief for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises – to set up an important input, and thus do what is necessary, namely to prepare us with a calm hand now in this situation, where we are at the beginning of a downturn, and with these three packages more ambitious than other European Union countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand emotions arising from election struggles in some federal states, and therefore also the need for urgent requests. But what I have heard on the part of the opposition today, I must say that it was not a single proposal that strengthens the economy that relieves the people and fights the crisis. This is an exciting element in this debate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Did you not listen? Are you deaf on both ears? This is the shadow of General Konrad who speaks there!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Just your excitement shows that you are not in crisis situations, gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is very important to discuss how they are at the table and what measures we are taking to deal with this crisis together in the interests of people and the economy. [[Abg. Stache: Then finally make an Economic Committee!]] Let us start with the package we have decided here together in the National Council, with the support of our banks to ensure liquidity for the economy as well: a unanimous decision here in the National Council. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Straight: All the promises that have been made have not been observed to this day! No control, nothing like that!]] Mr Bucher and Mr Strache, it is exciting to see how you are going to say goodbye to what you decided at the time as a necessary package to support the banks and thus to support the savers and to secure savings and also to secure the credit economy. [[Abg. Strache: This was the last time because your promises are unfortunately not implemented by God!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this package to support the banks is important, it is offered. And just a bank from Carinthia has also taken advantage of the help. [[Aha and hearing noise at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And I won't prescribe a bank when and at what amount it uses services from this offered package. [[Abg. Strache: Who makes controls now? Take a look at the tax havens of the Austrian banks!]] We are ready to give this support. We will ensure that the bank package works that the loans have to be granted. Similarly, we will ensure strong control when money is given to these banks – which we will also find out again in order not to give a wrong impression, and for which we will benefit from interest rates in the meantime. As part of the Treaties, we will be careful to ensure that this aid is calculated not only in the crisis, but also for the Republic at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second point: With the tax relief package, we will set an input for the families in Austria, from the single mother to multi-child families, to the amount of € 500 million. We will give almost €2 billion to workers as a relief in order to be able to get through the crisis stronger and better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: The cold progression since 2005...!]] And for small and medium-sized enterprises, we will have their own rules, an equivalent to the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary, with the increase of the limit of duty for freelancers and for all those working in a business activity, is an accent. This is important because especially small and medium-sized enterprises are those areas that can lead us out of the crisis with the potential that lies in these companies. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to clear up a few false reports that have been given here for the best. Mr Scheibner claimed that short-term models would only be something for large industrial enterprises. [[Abg. Head: The opposite is the case!]] I must say to this, Mr Scheibner: Work with the facts and facts, especially in this difficult situation, in order to be able to argue properly! Then: Half of the beneficiaries of the short-term model are small and medium-sized enterprises. The fact is therefore: We also help small and medium-sized enterprises to bridge this crisis! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: How do we deal with the challenge we face in the Central and Eastern European countries? This “20 Years Fall of the Iron Curtain” we will celebrate and celebrate this year – together, as I hope! Nothing has strengthened us in Austria as the opening of the Iron Curtain and as a result economic development in these neighbouring countries. [[Abg. Strache: At least 230 billion € Detention!]] It is now our responsibility, after having done good business there for years and decades, to ensure that we in Europe are prepared to face this crisis together in order to be able to participate disproportionately positively in these regions for the location Austria. This is the task we have with the stability partnership that we have to prepare together in Europe – no more and no less, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: 230 billion € Detention!]] Fourth point is an opinion on issues that are currently affecting me: This is the beginning of the budget negotiations for the next two years with a perspective until 2013. Mrs Glavischnig, it is not a question of saving waste, but it is a question of creating the free space at the budgets in the resorts, in the administration, so that we can relieve people so that we can strengthen the economy and so that we can cope with this crisis. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes yes!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's where we have to show discipline: in the resorts! And we'll do that with ourselves. This is meant by the course I have stimulated and which I will negotiate consistently. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I think: In a difficult time when all our forces and all our competence are needed – economic policy nature, fiscal nature, in the direction of what is to be done – electoral struggles should not overthink or cover what is necessary, namely to do the right things at the right time. That's what this government is doing!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8445	The next round will begin with Mr Magistrate's speech. Stadler. All five speakers are available for 4 minutes each. Mr Stadler will give a speech with a slightly longer final sentence, for which Mr Vilimsky will speak a little shorter than 4 minutes. I would ask you to follow this agreement. Please, Mr Mag. Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8473	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank the ORF for transmitting this debate live today. I would also like to thank the ORF for doing so in Salzburg. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen today the clubman of the larger government party on the most dramatic economic situation for decades – well noticed! – reacts. I don't know if this message has already arrived with you, dear Josef Cap. This is the biggest economic crisis that we have been facing for decades. Everyone we sit in here has never experienced such an economic crisis at all; only the old ones in Austria can still remember similar things. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] I don't want to take a nap now, nor about the clubman Josef Cap. But: I am horrified at the way the clubman of the larger government party is reacting to these problems, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm horrified when I think about the fact that 500 people are about to lose their jobs at M-real in Salzburg. I would like to know what these people think when they come home in the evening and get told about their wife, how the clubman Josef Cap, as employee representative, as a more pragmatic, responded to these problems. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, if you want to be employee representatives and not just have pragmatic representatives in your ranks, then you have to deal differently with this crisis, ladies and gentlemen of the cooperative, than your clubman did. Believe me! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The workers' representatives sitting in here actually only had in mind the renovation of the ÖGB and the BAWAG – they didn't care about anything else, ladies and gentlemen! It's good that the workers see it on the televisions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, my dear colleague, it has not been done to say that we are probably experiencing a cyclic economic crisis. [[Abg. Head: I didn't say that either!]] You said it was to be expected, it's a bit cyclic, it's a little bit worse than usual. This is far more than a cyclic crisis. Far more! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Head.]] I'm sorry, but I didn't have the impression with you that this message has already arrived with you. [[Abg. Hornek: You hear badly!]] I not only listen, but I also look at what the government is doing! So I'm looking at what the big ÖVP is doing. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: A lot!]] I'm right with you now, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. Mr. Vice-Kanzler sat down in a private jet of the “Unkels Konrad” of the Raiffeisen Association, flew in the east through the geography, Wednesday and Thursday last week, and took one exit after another for Raiffeisen-Lobbying – and that is the action of this government, ladies and gentlemen? That should be your serious answer to the biggest economic crisis facing this country. [[Call: This is a smooth lie]] That's not a smooth lie! You even missed the House's Economic Committee! The whole house has grumbled where you are. That's what it's called flying through the area in the private jet of the Raiffeisenverband. Not with an AUA machine, but with a private jet! One exit after another, you brought yourself to the east. That's how it looks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who paid the jet?]] The only thing that moves Mr. Vice-Chancellor is that we are 20 years old. Celebrate the anniversary of the fall of the Wall. Already after celebrations, he is supposed to be – as if there was anything else to celebrate at all! Celebrate at the opera ball! I hope the voter will present the bill to you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Vice-Cancellor of this Republic has celebrations in mind when it comes to the biggest crisis! The Federal Chancellor still has two months ago, no, I am correcting, two and a half months ago, in his government statement – which should They may lead to feelings – talk of economic growth of 2%. I'm talking to him here, that's his government statement. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] In doing so, he told journalists that it would be more appropriate to approach the matter far more optimistically. I have to give my colleague Glavischnig the right to say: They haven't understood what's going on at all! I repeat: They haven't understood what's going on yet! In the meantime, it is assumed that economic growth is a minus growth. This is a contradictio in se. The economy is shrinking! If you read the APA reports today, you can find out why the Austrian banks are sleeping in the crisis. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In Europe... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Listen to me! Read the APA! 18.2 trillions of € in ‘wrong loans’ and ‘wrong values’ are available. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] [[Abg. Riepl: It's out!]] A significant part of it is in Austria because...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8671	Mr President, I have given you half a minute more speaking time, which has been an extended conclusion. I have to interrupt you, otherwise the other speakers will no longer speak. I'm sorry! I've been ringing long enough. [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. May. Stadler.]] Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8704	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I guess we all don't know each other at our colleague Stadler: On the one hand, he calls for a serious discussion, reminds them of all, but on the other hand he then gives such titrations of himself. That is self-evident, Mr Stadler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what really excites the population? Where are the emotions, where is the outrage? Is it the work of the Federal Government, as it is presented here? [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, yes!]] Is it the work of a federal government that does not dispute that has become a genuine partnership? Two thirds of the population recognise this. Is it the work of the Federal Chancellor who travels daily with the workers, in the factory halls, with the population? It's been recognized for a long time! The attempt of the opposition, here – and there you should be ashamed, Mr. Strache! – to want to beat political change on the back of those affected from an economic crisis has failed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. So that's cheap! Cheap, cheap, cheap!]] The population is actually upset by mismanagement in companies and in banks. It stirs up about the failure of boards and supervisory councils who later hold their hands, and often both hands stop. We hear adventures from the United States and internationally. But how does it look in Austria: at the AUA, at the ÖIAG, at the research center Seibersdorf, at the ÖBB? Who was politically responsible, then, when 600 million euros were “assembled ”? Was that not a certain Mr Gorbach? Keywords: “The world in Vorarlberg is too small.” – Mr Scheibner, there we are in the middle of the “Orangery”! [[Abg. Scheibner: The canal network and trams in Vienna...!]] I have a memory like an elephant, I can tell you: This went from Minister Schmid to Mrs. Forstinger and Mr. Reichhold to Gorbach. This was like a turning door where an incompetent minister has entered and an incompetent minister has come out. These ladies and gentlemen have caused enormous damage to the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next example: the research centre Seibersdorf – here I am now with you, Mr. Strache – a collection of FPÖ. I'm just quoting from the newspapers: ‘Misswirtschaft’, ‘Missmanagement’, ‘Postenschacher’, ‘Abhandlungskandal’, ‘Virthless Krida’. – All of this you have to answer! But there was no word to hear from you, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. Strache: Stop the impotence!]] And: At the AUA, what's up with that? – A Mr Alfred Ötsch – who said a three-quarters of a year ago that the company had been renovated, and then in the end only one bidder was left in the sale process – who now seems to get away with a deal of millions. This is what Mr Michaelis of the ÖIAG has to answer. [[Abg. Strache: The pre-punished Androsch is in this company! There are other pre-punished rulers there in Seibersdorf!]] There is an OGH judgment, and I warn you: Supervisory Boards will be personally liable in the future for discharges which they grant but which in reality do not belong to. [[Abg. Strache: Come to speak to Mr Androsch, who has been punished before, about the SPÖ!]] But let's stay with the ÖIAG: 700 000 € Gage for Michaelis – this is still from the time of Grasser. Such a thing is unthinkable in the future! We need a new ethics, a new modesty in the management days. But it must be implemented by the Supervisory Boards, that's clear. In the case of premiums, a completely new system belongs. Sustainability and job security must be at the heart of the work. But that's not the lawgiver's job, it can't be, but that's what the Supervisory Boards have to decide. I'll tell you something. Of course, the economic crisis has caused a great deal of change and confusion, but one cannot be: simply changing the law of society as it pleases and thus bringing further uncertainties into the whole situation. Ladies and gentlemen, one more appeal: Try to do something for the working people together with the Federal Government – today you haven't done it so far! Let us do this in the next few weeks, also in connection with the budget! Then the population of Austria is actually served.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8845	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e8866	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to note that I am bitterly disappointed about the discussion on how it is being conducted here by the applicant for the BZÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: All right!]] And if Mr. Mag. Stadler here claims that our Deputy Chancellor and Finance Minister Josef Pröll would have been on the road with a pilot of the Raiffeisenverband, then I must say: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, he said private jet!]] This is a smooth lie, this is a false report, my Ladies and gentlemen, all this has been paid for by the Ministry of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] – Mr Stadler, apologise for this and take back this lie! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: The taxpayer paid it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty, in fact, not to engage in an attack on the political opponent, but to discuss people's concerns and take them seriously and to propose measures and to deliver ideas. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who paid the plane? Who paid for the private jet?]] I would have expected you to have an idea competition, how we could achieve the goal – the ultimate goal! – which we must have in these hours and days, namely to secure jobs, to create jobs, to secure incomes so that people can maintain purchasing power. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am very glad that this Federal Government, and especially the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance in this crisis, no one knows where it will end, gives people security and does not work with fear slogans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I very much welcome the economic package II, the medium-sized billions, the investment offensive, the thermal renovation of €100 million for private housing and for businesses. I also very much welcome the regional employment offensive and also the tax reform measures to relieve people and to try to maintain purchasing power so that value creation can remain in our country. I also very much welcome – that is to say to you, Mr Finanzminister, and also to the Federal Government – the family package of €500 million. I believe that this is very important for the families in Austria so that they can invest and live safely in the future. What hurts me in my heart, I say as a farmer's representative: We all know that this difficult situation, caused by the loss of jobs, Mr Grosz, suffers from purchasing power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] This also affects farmers. This has not been the case with any word in your request! We are thinking about how, within the framework of the 2009/2010 budget, we can also link up an agricultural package, how we can help dairy farmers how we can drive energy production to make Austria more crisis-proof and independent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Our task is also to think about how we can promote investment so that purchasing power is preserved and so that there is employment in the rural regions as well. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] We are working on this – but you are just talking about it, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us take note of our parliamentary mission to be there for the people, and let us refrain from beating political little money out of crises.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9027	Mr Vilimsky has now come to speak. Not a minute's speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9049	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already curious how the Federal Chancellor and President of the Socialist Group is presenting himself here today: like an innocent paralysm, he has nothing to do with all the problems and misunderstandings that we have to discuss here. One could sing a song alone on his activity at “Wiener Wohnen. ” But: One of his first activities as infrastructure minister was to add two reds to the ÖBB holding board to the two black holding boards – each for a sale of half a million euros a year. If you base this on the salary of a small employee of the ÖBB, for example, a shift worker who earns about €1,000 a month, then you will get the following bill: This employee would have to work for 35 years to get the money provided by the Federal Chancellor for two red party guests. I say: The originals of social democracy have had something different in mind than what the SPÖ is doing today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And even the US President Obama, so-called by you, deserves less than Mr Bundeskanzler, who now no longer wants to attend the debate. That is why we are making a request today, with the aim that no one in the Republic of Austria is outside the federal reference pyramid, that no one should cash millions and millions of millions of black party managers, at the same time the aid of the state and thus of the taxpayer, because that is inappropriate and that is bad! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In fact, I wanted to devote myself to another billion grave, which should have been the subject of this today's meeting, namely Austrian broadcasting. No one can see that at a time when the economy is collapsing, an enterprise financed by a compulsory fee system with half a billion revenues a year is facing economic bankruptcy. There are a few perceptions that are very interesting and have not really been in the debate, for example, that Ms. Sissy Mayerhoffer, at the time working with you in the ÖVP Federal Communications Department, suddenly became the commercial director in the ORF. She had no idea why she had to take a WIFI course. 250 000 € plus 15 percent premium they cash there – that's inappropriate, that's what's breaking the ORF! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Also the greens who today break the privilege debate from the fence: Your former Federal Managing Director Strobl, who sits there and powerfully cashes – a quarter of a million euros a year! – it’s the one that now points to a so-called Neuner module in the course of the conversion. [[Call the BZÖ:Pfui!]] For the explanation: An office in which normally three people sit is a three-way module; on the other hand, he wants to claim threefold, that is, space for nine people, only because of being able to represent enough! – So far to the green treachery as far as privileges are concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's an order call!]] The ORF is in the crisis; the ORF pays for dream salaries, the ORF pays for dream settlements. I do not see why thousands of small employees, editors and administrative staff should now be put on the doorstep for this mismanagement and, on the other hand, the board continues to waste and drive as before.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9146	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9200	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking with a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9222	Madam President. Two gentlemen left on the government bank! In the run-up to this special meeting, all kinds of news have been announced. I would like to focus on two points, because the public, I believe, also has a right to pursue what has actually happened with these announcements. On the one hand, it was about recovery packages compared to the underlying economy, about employment packages, on the other hand about manager salaries. I'll start with the second. Mr State Secretary, it seems to me that the motto, the government's common motto on these two problems, has so far been the following: Empty business packages, but full managers bags! – That sounds polemic, but unfortunately it is. Let's just stay with the managers. We are now, today and here in our request that Mr Pilz be presented to us afterwards, only to have in mind those establishments – not close to state or private – which now have to hold their hands – say to others that they should come – which in all cases in any way claim taxpayers to get over the rounds. It doesn't have to be bad, but one thing is certain – in the area the question of justice can also live by a certain symbolism, and that's what we're talking about: Jene Companies that come here, and whose managers must commit themselves to the state that first gives money, to limit the salaries of the managers – mostly managers and not managers – to the amount of the Federal Chancellor's salary for the period of use of this aid! Now he's not here to ask him if he's gonna have to do it. It must be possible! This is still more than ten times the majority of workers who are still employed or are supposed to be terminated in the establishments and whose unemployment benefit is even lower. This must be possible, it makes sense, and from our point of view it is not populist, because there is now less financial contribution in the area, but a measure with a high symbolic value could be implemented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, have, in part, announced it yourself! State Secretary for Arbitrators, then State Secretary Lopatka of the ÖVP and at the end Federal Chancellor Faymann: Yes, you can do something like that or something like that. – We will then make the request. We will have this part voted here today, and then we will see how you keep your word in this matter. Let us move on to the second point of the debate. Mr State Secretary, unfortunately these so-called economic packages do not deserve the name. The first was the so-called medium-sized billions, which should have led to this – a good idea it is – that in particular the small and medium-sized enterprises receive accelerated loans. Do you know what happened? – The centrepiece of this matter, the fund construction, is so great that one can just read in the “Wiener Zeitung” that the management posts are written out. The managers, for their part, will have time to draft guidelines until summer so that the SMEs who are servants can then know how to apply for them. That's your acceleration? That's supposed to be an economic package? – A good idea ruined! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's that supposed to do? – One billion is taken in the hand, that is right, we also have it from the dimension in our package. But this should be so arranged that it lands directly at small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in times of the credit terminal. The next item is the question of investment in construction measures. Yes, that would be good and would also find our approval. What you're not saying is that you're focusing on the BIG, the federal real estate company, whose managers are now running around the area and saying that they don't have the construction projects at all. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] So here too: Green investment in thermal renovation and public transport, and history is riveted.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9298	Your speaking time is over. Mr Klubobmann, you have obviously spoken about business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9333	High house! Madam President. We have requested this special meeting to discuss our request with the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor. We note that: It is not worth listening to our motion for a resolution. That is why we want the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor to be created. We are making the request for the creation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9362	Is there any further word messages to this effect? – Mr Klubobmann’s head, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9397	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's the same thing again and again. We have clear rules of play, we have State Secretarys, who are attached to the Federal Chancellor for their support to the ministers or in this case, and who may represent them in Parliament in particular. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor both answered this urgent request in detail and presented their positions in a very detailed manner. Two State Secretarys are present on the Government Bank. That is why I really can't get rid of this request and I don't understand it at all. In addition, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is now coming, which is once again exacerbating the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9418	Your application remains true as far as the Vice-Chancellor is concerned? Or do I shorten the procedure? – The application remains upright. [[Abg. Bucher: Of course he remains upright!]] Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9453	It is indeed true that the elected German Chancellor Gusenbauer has obviously maintained that government politicians will not be happy to work in this House from 4 p.m. onward. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm glad you came back, Federal Chancellor. It would be nice if Mr Vice-Chancellor would follow this urgent meeting today, because the issue is too important. And it simply shows that you don't take it seriously from this government if you wait and wait permanently and experience a “warning house policy”. You really seem to me like a waiting house, you're always waiting. I think that the request should of course be voted on.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9493	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9518	Madam President. Of course, it is correct that German Chancellors and Vice Chancellors can be represented by the State Secretary. However, I think it really is a presumption that we do not even find the time to sit in Parliament for two hours. It's a dialogue, a discourse! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Faymann has to be quoted for the third time. [[Abg. Blow: We had to call outside for 10 minutes!]] You should really consider your dealings with the House a little more sensible.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9560	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9585	I don't understand the words now. They must have been in a deep sleep by the opposition parties, for there have even been statements by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and by Mr Vice-Chancellor, who have addressed these very sparingly urgent sides of the BZÖ. [[Abg. Street: The last 15 minutes was absence!]] Also said to our spectators: You have to know that you can also attend the meeting here in the house if you are not directly in the plenary room. [[Abg. Street: The last 15 minutes was absence!]] You hear it everywhere, you can see it everywhere, so there is always a presence. [[Abg. Blow: Two hours...!]] [[Further calls.]] That's why I find this entirely on my hair. I am faced with a mystery as to how you come to this text of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Strache: Not even the time from 15 to 17 o'clock!]] Because the presence was always given from the beginning. That's why I think that's a mere pretext, a sham debate. I'll tell you: Make it a little more exciting or more powerful that you have more desire to listen! But bullying is not a political and democratic culture!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9678	Mr Klubobmann Bucher's request is admissible. I'll vote on it. Whoever agrees that Mr Vice-Chancellor should take part in the meeting, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. I distribute the rest time until 5 p.m. to just 2 minutes each; I then ring off every time before. Mr Mag. Darmann's the first one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9721	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Before that, I must say that it is an immeasurable thing how Klubobmann Kopf and Klubobmann Cap deal with parliamentarianism here. You are representatives of your parliamentary clubs, your parliamentarians and do not think that government members are present at the debate here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Mr. Vice-Chancellor calls Director Konrad!]] If Mr Vice-Chancellor is not here, then the ÖVP is required to ensure that he is here too, so as to be available to us accordingly, to listen to us and to speak and answer. That is the minimum in dealing with parliamentarianism! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But now also on some speeches and some clarifications on the claims made earlier by various club members and by Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig. Mrs Klubobfrau, also the SPÖ has already tried, with false figures, to raise the prosecutor's office on Mr Petzner; she has failed. I don't know why the greens are trying again. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can prove the opposite!]] It is always the same game to quickly claim something wrong about the media. The fact is that this is not true, what you claim here. To Mr Klubobmann's head: If the ÖVP has nothing better to do than baden tourism in Carinthia – we all know that the basis of this interview was the “trend” of my colleague Obernoster, who gave information and handled it with wrong figures – then I have to tell you what really is going on in tourism in Carinthia. [[Owl at BZÖ]] [[Abg. Bucher: A Chamber of Commerce!]] New guest record 2008: We are among the top 3 in Austria with 13 million nights! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Purchasing power in Carinthia: Kärnten has now overtaken the Styria, the SPÖ-Land Styria, and is located in the good middle field in Austria. As regards debt, it has always been handled by colleagues Cap, by colleagues head and by their government parties with wrong figures. It has been proven that Carinthia is in debt compared to rank 6 and the black Lower Austria, the red Burgenland and the red Salzburg have left behind. [[Abg. Head: How many... are distributed?]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] If you build up the municipal debt, we are on rank 5 in all of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9830	Mr Mag. Darmann, you can't talk longer; then nobody gets to the edge with the 10 minutes! [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. May. Darmann.]] Mrs Mag. Lap is the next speaker. Speech time: close 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9861	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Madam President. High house! Today, the BZÖ has made a urgent request and is taking as a motto “Salvation Pact”. – I think only of this: You're looking for who you can enter a pact with. For the people know that the tax reform that you have decided in the last government responsibility has helped only the large corporations and not the people in Austria. The population will certainly not accept a pact with you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also true that the BZÖ in Carinthia assumes government responsibility. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the population in Carinthia is falling! That is, the Carinthias leave this state because they know you're not on their side. [[Lively ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: Are you talking about the worst SPÖ election outcome in history?]] In contrast, the Federal Government has increased the care allowance, increased pensions, increased unemployment insurance contributions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr Strache, I would have been very pleased if you would have spoken so vehemently to Seibersdorf today as to all the other measures you have spoken about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You think that the Lord is pre-punished Androsch? Or who do you mean?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] There is the Carinthia advertising in Carinthia, where it is so that the next managing director gets 60 percent more. He still gives himself a premium, which is independent of success and a fixed portion of the salary. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, what you have done here today and in Carinthia, will not join the population. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Our Federal Government is making the right decisions for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9972	Mrs Tamandel is now speaking. Speech time: close 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e9993	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps Mr Bucher and Mr Strache could then discuss their dispute in the cafeteria. – Today, we see quite clearly that the opposition cannot begin with the crisis. The opposition makes a request that the BZÖ makes a request that contains everything but in reality no solution at all, how to deal with the crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] This government is, we are on the right path, we know how to deal with this crisis. [[Abg. Street: The last offer of the Chamber of Commerce!]] [[Further calls.]] We have now tied up economic packages and they will be very good at them. We must make every effort to keep people in employment. It cannot be that we will not react until people have already lost their jobs. We'll be on 11. The tax reform that we have announced and prepared very well on March 1st. We know where the shoe is pressing. We help the people where they need it, including the families. We strengthen the purchasing power, that's very essential. We know what to do – unlike you. We also do not make the Carinthian tourism bad at all. On the contrary, we are doing everything we can to boost the economy. We know that workers are the biggest capital of the economy, and we also know that there are no jobs without companies. [[Call the FPÖ:You know everything!]] We will increase purchasing power and boost the economy with the measures. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] With your populism in the F, the BZÖ and the Greens, you will not achieve anything and will not receive a single job.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10075	The next speaker is Mr Jannach. Speaking time: just under 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10099	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! I look at it like this: The urgent request is only due to the fact that we have country elections in Carinthia. I regret that you are suffering from the fact that the BZÖ has tabled this request here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you heard about the economic crisis?]] You write, it's about mismanagement and mail chess. – You just forgot to extend the application: not red and black post chess and mismanagement, but red and black-orange post chess and mismanagement! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's just look at Carinthia, where you're doing this. Today, under BZÖ leadership in Carinthia, we have the highest debt: We have 2 billion € debt in Carinthia! [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Of course with SPÖ and ÖVP, not only the BZÖ alone; they have decided everything. That's 3 800 € per Carinthian, the highest debt level! This is a successful financial policy? - I don't think so. Then you complain, please, that AUA has been so badly managed. You drove the Styrian Spirit to the wall under your leadership, reduced €3 million in tax money in a year! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call BZÖ: You want a red captain?]] [[Further calls.]] Then you still paid €440 000 in premiums to the Styrian bosses. That's where you're yelling at the AUA? – No one believes that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Then you'll be grumbling at the counsellors. The Birnbacher who sold the hypo has collected €12 million for two months of oral consulting! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 12 million € with BZÖ and ÖVP support – and then you talk out there about mail chess and mismanagement?- Oh, my God! The same is true of school. National School Council President: BZÖ occupation. District school inspector: BZÖ occupation. Kärnten Development Agency, Managing Director: BZÖ occupation. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] National Tourism Director – Mr Bucher, the post nobody needs –: BZÖ occupation. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Then he resigned, and you put Mares Rossmann down: also BZÖ occupation. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] They are not about the economic crisis, but only about cheap polemics in the Carinthian country election campaign. That's what the citizens are tired of!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10211	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10232	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After the usual four-party dirty wash, it goes back to the problems and concerns of the people in Austria. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I am bringing in – and this, because the Chancellor is behind me – a motion for a resolution that corresponds to a request from Federal Chancellor Faymann: ‘The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, which covers the cover of managers' salaries in the case of state aid, in particular under the Interbank Strengthening Act and the Financial Market Stability Act, amounting to € 285,000 annual salary. In this Maximum annual salary shall be included in all additional benefits such as bonuses, pension payments, stock options et cetera.’ Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Federal Chancellor called for, and that is what the Minister for Economic Affairs has called for; that is what comes from SPÖ and ÖVP. And we also want that no close-to-state manager, that no manager, who says: Please give us billions of tax money so that we can cope with the speculation losses that we ourselves have caused!, more than the Austrian Chancellor deserves. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the power to finally introduce performance criteria and give people a signal where you stand politically: Should the victims or the perpetrators finance the consequences of the crisis? Should the small savers and investors and the taxpayers be asked to pay the tax once again, or should it also concern the speculation assets and those who face golden noses before the crisis and in the crisis with the political aid of ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ – these are the facts! – deserved? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] The vote will take place today, ladies and gentlemen. Are you on the side of the people for the first time – or are you playing the wrong Robin Hood again and taking the poor and giving the rich? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the decisive vote to combat the economic crisis, but a vote that signals people in which direction. That is why I wish, even though the ÖVP has signaled, not to want to share in this, that we still find a majority for solidarity with the weak against the speculation managers in this House! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10312	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10388	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10409	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly to the Carinthian Members: “Styrian Spirit” – the Styrian spirit: This is a Styrian airline and has been made economically equivalent to the ground in a unique way by the head of state Voves and the mayor Nagl. But Styria and Carinthia are apparently not easy for a Carinthian. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Also in the history of the old Germania, which you obviously follow, both countries were not together. I don't know if the history and topography of the FPÖ give something different here, but the pack still separates us. There will be a coral tunnel, but with this federal government it will take 20 years! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In order to bring statements from the past to an objective level, I have to put in place a motion for a resolution on one-man companies at the outset: I think we have a huge problem in Austria. Thousands of people are in short work, and hundreds of thousands of people are unemployed. The short work will become the new form of employment of the Austrians under the supervision of the Federal Government. The short-term work is the preliminary step towards unemployment. In order to counter this, we are today submitting the following proposal, which calls for the support of one-man companies by introducing a temporary employment premium: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you, in the interest of the fact that more people are returning to employment and more people are being encouraged by a Mr Androsch, by large businesses such as MAGNA, and as they are all called, are being abandoned, and again find a job to accept this request! I think that after the last two hours in which emotions have risen, this is quite a command of the hour. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, thousands of people are in short work. The human right to work in Austria is violated. A federal government, which is looking at it and prefers to use it to spend €31 million for consultants, possibly also at party friends €8 million for ads in two months and €305,000 for premiums and rewards for all well-paid ministers, is not for us the social response at a time when the citizens of our country do not even have enough money to buy something to eat! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, to finally understand these signs of time and to carry out a social policy, to start saving in your own field and finally end this life as made in the bacon! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10490	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz is sufficiently supported and is being discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10564	Mr Krainer is next to speak on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10588	Mr President. In his speech, Mr Strache said that the Federal Government had halved the tax on the entrance of the foundation and thus donated €600 million a year to the foundations. I'm actually correcting: Of course, the Federal Government has not passed a law, but it was the National Council. [[Abg. Strache: On a proposal from the Federal Government!]] The tax on the foundation was not halved, but the donation tax law and the inheritance tax law have expired and the National Council has introduced a new tax for the tax on the foundation – and this has not resulted in 600 million euros being less in the state budget, but in 10 million euros being more in the state budget. Wherever you have these 600 million, I'm a mystery anyway, because it's nowhere to be found at all! There are 10 million € more and no less, and there is a new, additional tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr Strache, just one sentence: The difference was that it was necessary to pay 15 to 60 percent for a gift as a private person and five percent for foundations. Now nobody pays anything, and the foundation pays something. From a privilege became a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10642	Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10663	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a curious decision by the BZÖ to hold a special meeting on the subject of mismanagement! And, accordingly, the urgent request is also curios. I really wonder what you want to do with that. With your rule in Carinthia – and I now deliberately choose the male form, because you do not have women in it – you have long proved that you cannot manage! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] You have managed to lead the country to the edge of an economic disaster, and you cannot speak so beautifully, Mr Darmann, even if you still have such a heavy knock on the speaker's seat! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] We have often heard enough here in Parliament how you presented Carinthia as your model for Austria. This is a dangerous announcement or a dangerous threat, ladies and gentlemen! It is obvious that the self-image and the foreign image are quite apart, and that simply has to be done! Their “model Carinthia” has become a negative example, and unfortunately the country has become the final light in many areas among the federal states. The debt level is enormously high, the per capita debt is enormously high, the unemployment is high, the purchasing power is particularly low, and migration is also very large. Many young people leave because they do not see opportunities, and the population is shrinking, as Mr Lap has already said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] With sintering events, people were distracted and the problems were covered, and no one thought about sustainability. Sustainability is a strange word for you, Mr Petzner! There is still an over-dimensional check for a photo – however, over-dimensional is only the format of the paper paper box, but not the sum that you then produce. Another point, why Carinthia is being brought to the cue by you, is the xenophobia that you always display, and the pettyness of some politicians who tell at the expense of other racist jokes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] We know anyway, Mr Petzner, that this does not count for you either! – This not only sells young people, but also makes international problems. I think an opening would be very good for the country, because your attitude according to the motto ‘We are!’, if possible in a Free State of Carinthia, is really more than before! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This little spirit, however, also becomes felt in access to culture, and this brings with it another paralysis of the country. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] In fact, the legendary statement of the former head of state Haider still applies: The hand that feeds you does not bite! And critical things are not even promoted, but starved. It goes so far that you question the freedom of art. But this goes even further by even calling into question the human rights convention by the head of state Dörfler. – The legal understanding and the democratic understanding of the BZÖ seem to have remained true in the Middle Ages! – These are just a few flashlights that show how you managed the country down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] The country would have so much to offer, and people also want the land to be carried with its treasures: These include the ideal situation and the situation that Carinthia could actually be an economic springboard for the south-east of Europe. The two languages could be a bridge to such a development! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] There are also many creative people living there. I believe that the BZÖ and especially its Carinthian Members should, before making such thoughtless requests, come to their door! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10762	Next, Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10783	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! At the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] Now, ladies and gentlemen: Today I have heard a whole series of polemic statements by the members of the opposition, but have not included any solutions. I think it is better and people are more served by bringing them closer to what the government has done. And they will soon also feel these measures. We are launching two economic packages, and there will be a tax relief of €3.2 billion, of which €500 million will be paid to a family package. In this way, there will be strong impulses for purchasing power, as we thus allow additional consumption expenditure. I am sure that this will be an important point for the recovery of the economy. As an entrepreneur, I am very glad that we can, with an increase in the amount of free money for invested profits from 10 to 13 percent, set a milestone that finally eliminates discrimination between the taxation of self-employed and self-employed persons. Here a measure is put in place which is also very close to business form-neutral taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, you will see that this is a milestone similar to the reduction in corporate tax, which in the end has brought an increase of almost €3 billion in tax revenue, because we have been able to encourage many companies to settle in Austria, because Austria is a benchmark in Europe. While other countries like Germany – to name just one – still have commercial taxes and many other taxes, we are well on our way here in Austria! In addition, I rely on the innovative and good entrepreneurs and the best-trained workers, on adequate solid households in the federal authorities and municipalities as well as on a functioning social network. These conditions and measures will enable us to master this economically really not easy time better than many other countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e10862	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and is also dealt with. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11054	Mr Hübner has now referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11078	High house! I am making an actual correction to the comments made by Mr Gerald Grosz, who meant that the Styrian Airways had nothing to do with the country of Carinthia, and that Mr Jannach, who made statements in this regard, apparently confused Styria and Carinthia in retrospect of German times. To remember: 42.2 percent of the Styrian Airways or Styrian Spirit – as they called it – were purchased at a time when this company was facing insolvency from the country of Carinthia at a purchase price of €3.0 million to raise an airline in Carinthia and expand Klagenfurt Airport. I can remind you that this airline went into bankruptcy after another ten months. The total loss for the country Carinthia or the quota...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11102	Mr Commissioner, don't make a speech, but just put it to the facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11118	This has already happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11145	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11166	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Today, there was a lot of talk about “Polemics of the Opposition”. I would therefore like to try to remain very objective, but to present a few facts that must give us some thought. I hope to hit an open ear, especially at the SPÖ. Of course, it was important to ensure that not one bank after another in Austria gets into considerable difficulties. But let us take a look at the example of Constantia: The five large local banks have taken over the Constantia and thus saved almost. €400 million has been invested, and there is a liability of the taxpayer. In addition, the National Bank has shot €50 million. Now you need to know that most of this amount has been paid to the three Board members of Constantia. That cannot be the goal we are pursuing together! We want to support the really injured and not invest millions to provide for the board of directors, their children, grandchildren, and possibly even great-grandchildren. If three board members receive almost €30 million to ensure that they have not really helped the bank with its blessed activity, then this course must be corrected in our opinion! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We hear again and again the argument that good salaries must also be paid in the near-state or semi-public area, so that the best of the economy or even the best, which also ensure that these close-to-state companies issue dividends. Now I wonder, in the example of Mr Ötsch, whether he was really the best one you could get. You must be aware that Mr. Ötsch has not brought any experience in the field of aviation and has nevertheless been able to work as the best-paid manager in this semi-public area; and the many, many mistakes he has made together with his Supervisory Board Chairman Michaelis are obvious. It is not God's intention that the AUA is today a reorganisation case, a pleite case, but there are serious management errors which I have already performed several times during the last sessions, namely: no kerosene management, a false mixed fleet policy, a wrong orientation of the destinations. All of this was responsible for the problems of Austrian airlines. Therefore, we are submitting the following motion for a resolution on claims for damages against the Ötsch/Michaelis duo, tabled on the urgent request concerning the BZÖ rescue pact for Austria as an emergency aid for people and the economy, instead of red-black post chess and mismanagement, in the 13th century. National Council meeting on 17 November. February 2009, XXIV.GP. The National Council may decide: "The Federal Government is asked to claim damages against the former AUA Board of Directors Mag. Alfred Ötsch and the current EIAG sole board Dr. Peter Michaelis, as well as settlement and other discount payments from Mag. Alfred Ötsch and at least Dr. Peter Michaelis shall freeze at least until clarification.’ It's clear, ladies and gentlemen: Those who cause damage must not be rewarded for it. That's very, very important to us!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11236	The application submitted is properly filed and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11312	Mrs Lichtenecker came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11335	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Steindl! If the situation were not so serious, your motion for a resolution would be lulling because you are proposing a resolution to your own government – to your own chancellors, to your own vice-presidents and to your own ministers. That's bizarre, you just have to make this clear. But you're right! We also want faster action. We take people's concerns seriously, we take the fight seriously in the economic crisis, and we therefore need a package that relieves people, strengthens the economy, creates jobs and, in particular, strengthens purchasing power. Therefore, today we are adopting a resolution with a green employment package, which essentially contains four points: The first area includes a thermal rehabilitation package. You're probably thinking now: Well, we have the renovation check. – But what does this rehabilitation check look like with 100 million €? If you convert it to the 2 357 communities in Austria, then, Mr. Jakob Auer, you know what I am talking about if you act as mayor in your community – eight houses per municipality that can be renovated. That's a lean result, so you won't get along. Take advantage of the opportunity and give households the opportunity to save energy and use the saved costs for consumption, because this will strengthen purchasing power and become jobs – especially in the region! .................................................................................................................................................. So we invest 1 billion € in the old house renovation! The Austrian Stability Pact has given the communities a very close financial corset, which becomes a problem in the crisis. It is too strict, there is little room for investment. The communities want to invest in the future and need the money – for kindergartens, for the development of care facilities, for the creation of youth centres and for the revitalisation of local cores. That is where room has to be created, and that is where we want to support the communities. Not least, the municipalities and the agglomerations need to expand public transport. The urban agglomerations such as Linz, Graz, Salzburg and Innsbruck have completed concepts that can be implemented immediately, which would force the increase in the quality of life and the creation of jobs – exactly what we need now. One important point you have forgotten about the tax reform is the reduction of low incomes. In this area in particular, it is important to link up a package to give households the necessary resources for consumption, to strengthen purchasing power and thus to achieve a boost to the regional economy. At the same time, this is also the best and safest protection against poverty. They know that in Austria more than 1 million people are affected and threatened by poverty, including more than 200 000 children and young people. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, take people's concerns seriously and support this green employment pact!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11418	The application which has just been submitted is properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11525	Mr Petzner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11546	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You can insult, hoe and bad talk about Carinthia as you want, I'll just tell you one thing: [[Abg. May. Muttons: Against the BZÖ, not against Carinthia!]] ==References====External links== But give the answer! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The voters will give you the answer by re-electing the BZÖ as the national captain party, so that Gerhard Dörfler will be head of state in Carinthia for the next five years. We will take care of this because 40 years of socialist mismanagement in Carinthia, as we have experienced them, are enough. [[OBJECTIVES]] This will never happen again in Carinthia, Mr Cap, even if you still wish it so much. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will not allow that to happen, I can guarantee you at this point, based on our voting log. I would also like to tell you specifically why the Carinthia and Carinthia were on 1st. It will again express confidence in March. I should like to point this out in a specific example: Today, in our urgent request in item 2, we have formulated that we want a state bank that directly lends loans to the private sector because there are great difficulties there. You won't do that as always, you'll sleep on. We in Carinthia, on the other hand, will do it and show you once again how to do it right. [[Abg. May. Muttons: A threat again!]] We will do this in the form that the national mortgage bank will issue a Carinthian bond, whereby the country assumes the liability and the guarantees for it, to a total of about €700 million. In this way we will be able to help small and medium-sized enterprises and solve the credit gap under which the economy suffers. Then you will see that Carinthia is once again a step ahead and – even before the Federal Government – is acting correctly! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Cap, as you are talking about the need to create jobs, I should like to remind you of the following: Do you know what your SPÖ did in Carinthia today while we're discussing here? – The SPÖ has rejected the Tibet Centre for Hüttenberg and thus prevented 50 to 100 new jobs in a very, very weak region of Carinthia. This is your SPÖ: To prevent jobs and not to create them. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The ÖVP supported the project with Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner and former Minister Bartenstein from the Federal Government, but you prevented it. And what you still want in Carinthia is to set up a first-time reception centre for asylum seekers. That's the only thing you want for Carinthia. That is what we are quite clearly saying, no! I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11657	This request is also properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11722	Mr Prehauser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11745	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! The allegation of incompetence was the start of this meeting today. Mr Buchner – Bucher, if incompetence is a political category, I can tell you that you have put the true values on the table with your team today. [[Call BZÖ:Booker!]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard today that the BZÖ suddenly takes care of M-real in Salzburg in the person of the colleague Stadler. – To this end, I can say quite clearly in front of the assembly: Besides the head of state Burgstaller and the deputy Haslauer, the union and the Chamber of Workers, no party in Salzburg has just touched one finger to move here! All the others have taken this and left it up to the government to do it. In reality, it was like this: M-real is not a company that has come to Troubles by mismanagement. It was the strategic considerations of the management of a group to take competitors from the business square, in agreement with a South African partner, in order to sell other products better, more expensive. With Haslauer and Burgstaller, the trade union and the Chamber of Labour, Salzburg has drawn on a line. A very, very good social plan has been drawn up. Of course, it is tragic for the 500 or 600 people who lose their jobs, but by negotiating a social plan the transition could be made tolerable. We will do everything in Salzburg to find other jobs for these exempt workers. If you look at the past economic success of Salzburg – Mr Petzner, listen [[Abg. Petzner: The biggest increase in unemployment!]] It's just you once! Be humble once, where it really matters! Think about the following: If you read statistics and compare Salzburg and Carinthia, Salzburg has a lot of inhabitants, fewer Members, but there is no point where Carinthia can reach the water! Not even with the lakes, dear colleague Petzner – we also have a few more! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you: That's polemics. Such requests and applications have their own “dominance” before a country election – under quotation marks. We must not put everything on the table here, but one thing we should not: Hickhack is neglecting our concerns and our work for the jobs of the Austrians. This government with this Chancellor is guaranteed that Austria's concerns will be felt and that it will be working to keep difficulties limited. In Carinthia the sun has fallen down, but, my colleague, I tell you, it seems not only down, but somewhere on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11836	Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11857	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! No, we don't lack awareness of reality. There is also nothing beautiful as you claim from the BZÖ in your application. I remember: Two economic packages have already been decided, investment incentives are being set up, additional sources of finance for businesses are being opened up, there are additional R&D funds, investments in infrastructure are preferable, and everything is done to ensure that people remain in employment. What's particularly important to me is: There was a sensational family package, which we can rightly be proud of. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Sensational!]] – Yes, it’s a sensational family package that totals a 15. Monthly salary for our families, for our children brings. The 13th. Family aid has already been decided and even paid out. So the government has already acted! A child allowance of € 220 per child has been introduced, the amount of child drop-off has been increased to € 700, especially those who do not pay taxes. Childcare is removable and the last kindergarten year is free. There is also the possibility that the employer will pay €500 for childcare to the employee without taxing it. This family package is a central point in the tax reform and shows that the families and the children are at our heart. Our foreign exchange in the crisis is: Addressing problems, stimulating growth, strengthening the economy, helping people. That is why I am convinced that this Federal Government is working very well and that it will implement all the measures contained in the government programme as quickly and comprehensively as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11906	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e11927	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Government members on the government bank! High house! Instead of speaking and replying to the Financial Committee last week and developing ideas with colleagues in the Financial Committee, what can be done in the face of the crisis in Austria, Mr Pröll is running around the area, obviously at the expense of Raiffeisen, as I have heard here today. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] While there are reports in Austria that thousands of people are being pushed into short work, for example in the Styria near Böhler, he is driving around for Raiffeisen in the East and the opposition is still preoccupied with having no concepts. So please let him come to the Financial Committee next time, instead of ringing around in Eastern Europe! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unemployment is a ghost that is currently in the minds of many, predominantly older workers in Austria. In doing so, we must also take into account that, if everything really happens, after the height of this crisis, when it goes up again, we will also lose quality: When businesses in Austria first cancel the older, we will lose much of our knowledge, experience, of Ezzes, what these older workers can pass on to the younger ones. I would also like to give the Minister for Finance a few concepts: Strengthening domestic demand is announced. We are too export-intensive or export-focused. This is also confirmed by Chancellor Faymann today, who spoke of dependencies. That's exactly how we see it. We have recently raised the liability framework for export promotions, but have not done anything for internal demand. In this sense, I put forward the following motion for a resolution on the promotion of internal demand: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, where possible, a government proposal containing the following points: a relief for families by introducing a family tax division model; reduction in the turnover tax on foodstuffs; the elimination of cold progression by a regular valorisation of tariff levels; the reduction of tax rates, in particular the reduction of the rate of tax on input from 38.33 percent to a maximum of 25 percent; the increase in the tariff level from which the peak tax rate applies, from currently € 51 000 to € 80 000.’ Ladies and gentlemen, it would also be important to invest in technological progress. I announced a project in Styria – and I will go through it – where it is about creating a centre of competence for aeronautical technology. If the only answer of the ÖVP Minister is that she wants to create an asylum home in Judenburg, then this is the wrong answer to the economic crisis, against which we will start to storm! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Technology and progress for our people in Styria are important.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12020	The application which has just been submitted is properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12107	I call Mr Van der Bellen. The rest of your group's speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12128	Mr President. Federal Chancellor Faymann! They said that economic researchers would confirm to you that the Federal Government is tending to be on the right path with its measures. I could have said that with all the diplomacy that we have done, too, tending to be the right way. Just, you know, if my personal best performance in the 100-metre run, we say we cheated for 60 seconds and I improved this performance to 58 seconds, then I would tend to be on the right track; but we all know that I would be away from any adequate sports performance miles away. Unfortunately, this also applies to the Federal Government as far as the economic packages are concerned. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said that the path was right, that it was open only if it was enough. – I am sorry to disagree with you on the second point: It's no longer open whether it's enough: It won't be enough. According to our 2009 estimate, the previous economic packages will create about 15 000 additional jobs and in 2010 about 25 000 additional jobs – something in scale – and this is already expected generously. This is beautiful, but jobs break away considerably faster than you can take steps to create new ones. They have completely lost sight of the dynamics, what is happening here! I have to give my colleague Stadler the full right, but I am very reluctant to say it: I, like you, feel that the Federal Government and its colleagues from the government groups – down and upward from Mr Cap – do not realize that they are correctly appreciating the dynamics, yes, the drama of the situation, in some way, that we have been in the biggest economic crisis for 80 years, not only in Europe, but in general. I would be pleased, Mr Stadler, if you had the same rhetorical verve that you have today – rightly! – have used against the Federal Government, also with regard to the policy of the Carinthian state government, because Carinthia is indeed a model – many of my colleagues have already addressed it, for example Eva Glavischnig or Harald Jannachof the Freeman – which is a model of relative economic decline, Mr. Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I promise!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mr Colleague, I promise to do so if!]] Carinthia is a model of decline! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's nothing to help you with individual tourism data. You have fallen back in Carinthia at the per capita income, Mr Petzner! [[Abg. Bucher: You have to calculate Osttirol, Professor!]] It is not all the data that is correct for the opposition there. For example, I checked indebtedness data myself, since Jörg Haider was right at the time: The country of Lower Austria is much worse. That's right. But if you look at the dynamics, the development of per capita income and the like, then it is quite clear: You risk, if you continue to do so – and I hope you have no opportunity to do so – that Carinthia will fall behind the Burgenland, and that means much in view of the previous good starting conditions. This is not an attack against Carinthia, Mr Petzner, but against the head of government there, and you represent them – you from the BZÖ! - and nobody else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But back to the Federal Government: Mr Faymann, you know, you say that in half a sentence, yes, in education and in ecology, you are quite agreeable with the Greens. – These statements, which have a tenth of something true, but which are nine tenths misleading and false, stand me up to the neck, I tell you honestly! There is no vision of the Federal Government of SPÖ and ÖVP about the educational location Austria – we say in 2020 – and of what this means for kindergartens, schools and universities. This program does not exist! They just watch universities fall and how the country's intelligence emigrates. This is currently our main problem: Not the immigration of poorly trained people from developing countries, but the emigration of the best qualified. - That's our problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And at the EU Summit on 1st November. I can only congratulate you on March, because economic policy will either be coordinated in Europe, or it will not take place. – You know that as well as I do. And what Austria, what the Austrian ministerial diplomacy has so far contributed to promoting, is – at least to me – not known. The final attempt of Minister Pröll – and at the moment it is gratifying me with which he has flown around, but it is about the result, and it is clear – did not bring any success in coordinating measures in favour of Central Europe, Eastern Europe and South-East Europe, which would help the Austrian banks, therefore would help the Austrian state, but of course would also contribute significantly to the stability of the economy throughout Europe. No one, not even Minister Pröll himself, has said after the trip that she has been a full success. ==References== But you will have to show more when you come back, and I hope you are aware that at European level you cannot simply demand anything if you just fit, but that you have to be present there. I do not have the impression that Austrian ministers – and especially those of this Federal Government – understood to find alliance partners in Brussels with the other Member States for measures that benefit us in Austria. There is something to be done for this, for example, in the case of measures that are more useful to the other than Austria. For this we need European coordination, and for that we need the European Union, Mr Strache, because in this situation alone, whose drama you, Mr Strache, have correctly described, we will not be able to pursue a successful economic policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12243	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12265	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! I am very pleased that the Federal Chancellor is still there – unlike Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's already been running again!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor mentioned that he did not find any point in our urgent request, which would include improvements to the situation. . I have painted all relevant posts to Mr Vice-Chancellor and may ask the Secretary of State to bring this to him. [[The speaker submits a copy of the urgent request to the place of Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] - He can read it to him too. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard about this self-service store of AUA and about the completion of Mr Ötsch. Consider, then, that different flights between the federal states are being removed, because the money needed for the settlement of Mr Ötsch is needed, then one must act. I would therefore like to make two motions for resolutions. The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second request is: motion for a resolution by Mr Bucher, Mr Scheibner, Mr Hagen, Mr Hagen, on the suspension of payments and other grants to AUA-Ötsch until the clarification of the existence of claims for damages and the legal limitation of reference for managers in public enterprises The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to act on the Austrian airlines in such a way that the satisfaction of all dues arising from the dissolved contractual relationship of settlement and other claims for Mr Mag. Alfred Ötsch is removed until questions relating to the existence of any claims for damages have been resolved to his person without delay. In addition, the Federal Government is invited to ensure that the remuneration of managers in companies with public shares of at least 25 percent is limited to the amount of the reference of the Federal President in accordance with the Federal Tax Law.” [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, my colleague's head is no longer there, just like half the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP: Of course he is there!]] - Is he here? Ah, thank God, then he hears it personally. He spoke of political actionism. Mr. Kopf! We need to wake you up, because this federal government has slept so far and has slept everything in the last four months. That is why the opposition must take the initiative. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have spoken briefly about the self-service shop ÖIAG and state or sub-state enterprises. If I can still come to Mr Michaelis, the head of the ÖIAG, who will soon be replaced – that's what you hear – but next to that is OMC Vice-President: The AUA sprit prices are too high, it's called. Mr Michaelis could act here. Finally, let me say: Regional routes must be maintained. We owe it to our economy. Certain economic sectors depend on these regional lines. Please make sure they are preserved!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12367	The two applications have been properly submitted and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12481	Mr Höfinger is next speaking. 3 minutes' speaking time; the rest of the speaking time of the group is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12502	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow it's already curious and curious: That is what the opposition – especially the members of the BZÖ – is saying that we should work together and that there should be some seriousness in this debate, but especially in the discussion of this issue, Mr Hagen, I have missed the BZÖ very much in the past weeks and months. Most of all, I've heard you, if you've discharged the verbal slippers of your country chief in Carinthia or had to apologise for Carinthia's economic policy. That was your main task in the recent past. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Because your own newspapers are silent! Your newspapers are silent about the opposition! Your newspapers don't allow anything from the opposition!]] The Greens were busy dealing with their own party crisis and therefore did not have time for the economic crisis. And the liberals have tried to put everything around the actions of President Graf under the carpet, and have therefore not been able to take time for this economic crisis. [[Abg. Strache: I am looking forward to your hourly apologies when everything is legally clear!]] Today’s tones, on the other hand, gave a completely different impression than what we have experienced in recent weeks. While all this has happened – unproductively – thank God someone who has been concerned about the concerns of people and economic development, namely the Federal Government and its members – the ministers and the State Secretary – but also the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ here in the House. In particular, I must thank our Minister for Finance Josef Pröll very much, who responded very quickly, who thought of a tax reform and set it up to relieve people first, to strengthen purchasing power and to secure third-party jobs and to create new jobs in economically difficult times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the tax reform with an amount of €3.2 billion will lead to a noticeable discharge. With a family package and the admissibility of donations, it is a tax reform that means birth money for people, in short, a family and a discharge package that makes families a 15. Monthly salary. We are working for an impulse package that will drive the expansion of alternative energies and hydropower, thus triggering investment, securing jobs and truly helping the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only invite the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties to really work with us in the future and to support us when it comes to easing people, strengthening the economy and mastering the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12561	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Königshofer. The rest of your group's speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12582	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No Brüssler Apparatuschik, no EU bureaucrat of Barroso coming down to Austria, will be tired to emphasize to what extent this Austria has benefited from EU enlargement, because its companies have invested to a large extent in the former Eastern states. Then let's look, ladies and gentlemen, at what was invested and who invested: Was invested in power plants, factories, hotels, infrastructure, roads, railways? – To a very small extent! In essence, ladies and gentlemen, Austrian credit institutions have bought up Eastern Banks to a great extent. Over this investment, the Austrian banks have built up an obligation of almost €300 billion. I'll count that. The Bank Austria is also required as an Austrian duty, because when this becomes striking, the Austrian savers of Bank Austria are primarily asked to cash out and the Italian owners only in a further line. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, for this reason, as in the whole of Europe, as in the whole of Austria, a bank restructuring package of around €100 billion had to be decided, but we say that it cannot be the banks' use of these funds like liabilities to return to the international casino in order to invest the funds at the ECB possibly so that this ECB can come back and buy up with this money of southern Europe's scrap investments, scraps and scraps – Greek, Spanish, Italian and so on – because this is currently being reversed. We want this money to benefit the Austrian real economy, that this money is used here in Austria, and that the bankers who have to determine this money are limited in their incomes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of Austria, its citizens and its economies, I would like to make the following request on behalf of the Members who have been signed: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of people and peoples, I would like your consent, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make another motion for a resolution on the establishment of a solidarity fund for the victims of the economic crisis. There are a lot of people affected by this economic crisis, which has reached an uncanny level, and that is why I would like to make another request: Resolution by Mr Jannach and others on the establishment of a Solidarity Fund for the Victims of the Economic Crisis The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council an immediate government template which, in order to address the consequences of the economic crisis, has the establishment of a solidarity fund for hard cases. The purpose of this Fund is to provide adequate and mandatory solidarity levies to those persons operating in protected areas.’ Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of these people I ask you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12697	Both applications are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e12844	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now come to the vote on the self-employed amendment 438/A(E) by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the BZÖ Rescue Pact for Austria as an emergency aid for people and the economy instead of red and black post-chaker and mismanagement. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, ladies and gentlemen, on salary restrictions for managers of close-to-state businesses and managers whose banks are using the support of the federal government. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the abolition of manager privileges. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the support of one-man companies by introducing a temporary employment premium. Whoever joins the request, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We are now coming to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kopf, Dr. Cap, ladies and gentlemen on crisis – strengthening the economy – helping people. Whoever supports this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 10.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts and colleagues on claims for damages against the Ötsch/Michaelis duo. Whoever joins this request, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the Green Employment Package. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petzner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the immediate removal of the Project of a “Schubhaftzentrum” in Leoben, as well as the establishment of another “South” reception site. Whoever joins this request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Weinzinger, ladies and gentlemen, on the promotion of internal demand. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Grosz, Mr Colleagues, on the maintenance of domestic air connections. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the suspension of settlement payments and other grants to AUA-Ötsch until the clarification of the existence of claims for damages and legal limitation of reference for managers in public enterprises. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Königshofer, colleagues on the reform of the bank rescue package. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – The application does not find the majority and is rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the establishment of a solidarity fund for the victims of the economic crisis. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. [[18:02:03]] Short debate on the answer to the question 220/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13070	We now come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth with the order number 220/AB. The above-mentioned answer is distributed. A reading by the writer is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker shall speak for 10 minutes. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. I can ask the applicant, Dr Pirklhuber, who has 10 minutes of speaking time, to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13105	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen The gallery! What is the point of this question? – It is about an area of general care, namely the protection of non-genotechnic food. This is not only a wish of citizens, but a very central area, which must also be secured with appropriate safety and risk research. Mr. Federal Minister Stöger, you are not in office for long, and you are not sure that you have had little experience in this area before and that you have hardly been politically active. But it is really a command of the hour to wake up on this question. What's this about? – On the one hand, the European Commission’s 10th anniversary. February – that is, recently, a few days ago – Austria has requested to abolish its ban on the cultivation of the MON 810 variety. Federal Minister! You're in charge here, and I'm reminding you: This ban on cultivation has existed since June 1999! So we write the tenth year of a success story of Austrian resistance to a technology in the agro sector, namely an agro-gen technology revolution, which rationalizes farmers, produces problems with the environment, and which at the same time includes safety and risk aspects which are still not fully explored. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! In my view, your answer to questions is quite precise in some respects, but in other points it misses the commitment that has so far been quite ongoing in your department. I remember – for the information of all here – the process in this fight, the real fight against agro-gentech companies that want to extortion Europe, here to build its strict food standards. Let's take a look at it: How did this story go? In 1999 we ordered the import ban on genetically engineered maize. ==References== In June 2005, the Commission tried to abolish this. At the time, however, a qualified majority in the Environment Council defended our ban. – This was a success in June 2005. The Commission has tried it again. In December 2006, the Environment Council again had a qualified majority for maintaining the ban on imports. You know as I do that, unfortunately, the Commission was partly successful in the third attempt. In October 2007, there was no more qualified majority. This does not mean that there was a majority at European level on this commitment in Austria, but there was no more qualified majority to maintain the ban. As a result, a compromise was reached, and the compromise was such that although Austria allowed imports, it continued to prohibit cultivation. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. May 2008, Federal Minister, will now be criticized by the EU Commission and you will be asked to repeal this regulation. There is therefore an acute need for action! This is also a good opportunity to learn here what strategy you will choose and how They will continue to defend this ban in order to continue to support it. In the answer to the question, ladies and gentlemen – you may have looked at this – you will see that there were Austrian studies. It was also the meaning of our efforts in recent years, on the basis of scientific research, to clarify scientific projects: How far is there a need for action? What are the risks in this area? And a unique study, which was conducted in November 2008, namely a long-term feeding study of genetically modified maize in mice, clearly showed that there was an impact on reproduction. (i) production, i.e. the fertility of the animals, and at the same time changes in the area of the inclusion of these feed in the intestines. That is, it has been demonstrated for the first time that genetic engineering feed has completely different effects and interactions in the intestine than conventional plants. You will say: Yes, my God, who cares? A few scientists! Ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this issue that has been being debated by the Agro-Gentech companies for a decade now! The US groups Monsanto, but also the Europeans, such as Bayer and Syngenta, assume that there is a substantial equivalence that these products are equal. You're not the same! And this study proves this for the first time in a long-term feeding attempt. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister Stöger, you are the Minister of Health and you are therefore also the first to be involved in the risk to animals or humans, both in Austria and at European level. Therefore, my very specific question to you: Will you replicate the criticism of EFSA in our study? This is an incredible point: this European Food Safety Authority does not recognise our critical studies! You have to imagine what this means for scientists – these are Professor Zentek from the University of Veterinary Medicine and Dr. Velimirov, who has been a specialist in this field for decades, is researching results. They had a hearing in front of EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority in December 2008 and were left out with some very cheap arguments! I looked at this panel, Minister of State. This is incredible from an Austrian point of view and a critical point of view for years! My question to It is therefore: Have you already prepared – that would be a first challenge – an appropriate replica to the EFSA? Will you also announce this replica in good time to your partner groups in Europe? Then to Austria and the Austrian regulations – and I believe that this is simply imperative and necessary if we want to continue to work on non-genotechnic food production in our country. In this context, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, I also recall the Government Convention: If you read on page 69 of the Government Convention, it is clear that the government at EU level is taking action to ensure that the right to self-determination is recognised for GMO-free cultivation. – That is exactly the question, whose solution is in place today or in the next few days, is part of the Government Convention! From our point of view, this is a very central sample of nails where, if you want, the Austrian Parliament is behind you. There are also eight of them. In July 2008, from the last legislative period, a joint five-party resolution request. And – you remember – in this five-party resolution proposal, Parliament has put itself behind a position that is precisely following this strategy. And your colleague Kdolsky also told me that she is still behind this position of Parliament. I would also like a clear answer from you. In the answer to the question, you also say that you are not currently planning any further research projects. I urgently ask you: Get out of this position! Take the money in your hand! – For vaccination against bluetongue, you have provided almost €20 million for this year, and for genetic engineering risk research nothing. Take advantage of the budget where urgent tasks really are concerned: in the genetic engineering prevention policy, in a policy for food safety, for the safety of consumers! One thing is clear to me, of course, Mr. Federal Minister: There is a huge need for coordination. Because you have to assume: ==References== In the Environment Council, this matter will be dealt with on March 2, and you will have until March 2. March still about 20 days to respond. My question to you: So far, what have you done with Mr Berlakovich – for he is sitting there in the Environment Council – to vote your arguments? What lobbying have you done with other Member States, with other trade ministers? And which Member States have you contacted so far? From our point of view, it is necessary to finally start a coordinated precautionary and safety policy in the field of non-genotechnic food. We have been discussing this for a long time, Mr Maier, and I hope you will set an impulse here afterwards and clarify what the government is doing. But I expect you, Minister, to answer this question, namely that you tell us precisely: What steps will you take to prevent the EU Commission's attack on non-genotechnic Austrian agriculture? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13214	Next, Mr Stöger, Federal Minister. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13235	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad to be able to answer this request orally, because it gives me the opportunity to present my personal position. Initiating and promoting genetic engineering risk research is one of the major priorities of my department. The position of Austria is also my very personal, and this is absolutely clear: No cultivation of genetically modified plants in Austria, as far as possible! – Scientific basics are here for the backbone. And I think that is clearly reflected in my answer to the question. Fortunately, there is also a broad consensus here among the five parliamentary parties. All of us here turn against the force of genetic engineering in Austria's fields. This joint position, this shoulder closure also manifests itself in a corresponding five-party request from the summer of 2008, which the House has also decided unanimously here. With the feeding study, mentioned in the request of the Greens, Enter Austria Neuland. Multigenerational studies of this type are new terrain. The approach to investigate the risk consequences of the use of genetically modified feed for several generations was first introduced by Austria into the EU discussion. This study was based on method-finding, but also on the support of the Austrian bans on cultivation. The Council of Ministers of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted its opinion on 21 March. Unfortunately – you are right – we were able to bring the most important results of this study into the European discussion, in which EFSA does not belong enough. The arguments of Austria were ignored by this page. For this reason, we immediately informed all the Member States of the European Union about this unfair treatment, including scientifically unfair treatment on the part of the European Food Safety Agency and the results of the study. It will in any case continue to work on this approach by our side. As far as the budgetary framework allows, a follow-up study will soon be commissioned. Ladies and gentlemen, a particularly important event for Austria is, as mentioned above, the next European Council of Environment Ministers on 2 October. March. According to the current situation, the Council threatens to drop the ban on cultivation in Austria for two GMO maize varieties. These bans have already been voted twice and have been prevented from being repealed so far. The time and speed at which the European Commission has drawn up a draft for the abolition of domestic farming bans are also strange: Not two days after the visit of the Austrian delegation to EFSA, their opinion or basic statement – no new scientific findings – was already available. They have been far too little in terms of the Austrian position. We have clearly explained our surprise in Brussels and also the other Member States. While the re-evaluation of the GMO maize varieties for an EU-wide authorisation is still under way and the Authority has requested further documentation, the Austrian ban has been considered inadmissible. In a letter to the Commission, Austria criticised that EFSA seems to measure by two measures. The competent Federal Ministry of Health has responded immediately to the rejection of the ban on cultivation. As Minister responsible, I have turned to the Permanent Representation to convince the other Member States of the importance of our concern to maintain the Austrian ban on cultivation in the current form. A letter was sent to all Permanent Representations in Brussels on Friday. At the same time, Environment Minister Berlakovich and I have written a joint letter to all the Union's Environment Ministers, in which we express our position very clearly. This letter was sent by fax to all Environment Ministers yesterday afternoon, also in time before the test vote on next Friday. We have also prepared, on the basis of the initiatives in France, a joint declaration, a letter coordinated by France, Hungary, Greece, which also have such bans on cultivation, and us. This letter is prepared by France and is also signed by me. It will now be about gaining the other member countries as partners for our concerns. At present, only four Member States form a safe axis against the cultivation of GMOs: France, Hungary, Greece and Austria. ==References====External links== We must convince a number of other countries, in particular Germany, Spain, Sweden, Italy, Romania, Bulgaria, Estonia and Belgium, for one thing is clear: No one in Austria wants the cultivation of genetically modified plants. In this sense, I can ask everyone here to fight together in the European Union. We need a close-up to the European Commission and the interests of a few fewer seed multis. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13294	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. All other speakers have a time limit of 5 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Johann Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13324	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Complementary, Mr Federal Minister, for this presentation and for the presentation of the measures taken by your ministry and yours! Mr. Alois Stöger has not only provided the Greens and Wolfgang Pirklhuber with a fine answer to questions – I have to say that clearly – but he has also explained what measures he has already taken following the Commission's announcement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I would like to take the opportunity to thank him very much, but also his employees who have prepared these measures in the sense of the common Austrian consensus. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pirklhuber, I really wondered what this question was about. – Requests are, we know, basically a sharp instrument of the opposition; we have experienced, even as a member of the opposition, that requests have not been properly answered. [[Abg. Oils: Here you go!]] That is why I do not at all understand the fact that a question has been raised here today – with the assumption that the appropriate measures would not be taken in the field. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I asked questions! You didn't listen to me!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whoever reads this answer in detail knows the clear Austrian position: In the Government Convention of SPÖ and ÖVP, Mr Pirklhuber, there is a threefold commitment to Austria's continued commitment to the freedom of genetic engineering, the right to vote and the principle of rejection of GMOs. You will find this in the Section on Agriculture, you will find it in the Consumer Protection chapter and you will find in the chapter Research a clear commitment to risk research. . I therefore believe that this Federal Government has taken away the mandate from the last legislative period and is here fighting together for a goal to continue to prevent the cultivation of GMOs in Austria. Federal Minister Alois Stöger has outlined his actions, measures which he has already taken together with other Member States. However, he also stated that it now depends on winning competitors who are willing to resist the Commission's planned measures. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, allow me to point out a particular problem, namely the still unresolved question of the intervening of genetic engineering and conventional agriculture. We have always represented a clear position here in this House and said that rules on co-existence cannot be established nationally, but must be created at EU level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] There is, and this is the occasion for me to take this, a decision from Germany that I find extremely worrying: A beekeeper from Kitzingen had complained against the Federal Office for Consumer Protection and Food Safety, who had approved an experimental field in the immediate vicinity of his 14 bee peoples. The beekeeper feared that his animals could collect pollen of the genmaise, which does not have an authorisation as food, and thus defile their honey. – The Braunschweig judges rejected this injunction. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We need to discuss the project again with other European countries at European level that issues of co-existence, issues of co-existence of genetic engineering and conventional agriculture are resolved with the relevant civil liability provisions at European level. Finally: Mr Federal Minister, thank you for your truly comprehensive and necessary presentation for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13410	Mrs Höllerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13432	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My previous speakers have already pointed out that there are bodies in the Government Convention where we point out how important it is for Austria that non-genotechnic agriculture is guaranteed in the future, so that food production in Austria can take place free of genetic engineering. Mr Pirklhuber pointed out that the five-party resolution request had been made. In June 2008, representatives of all the political groups, who really support all, took along, namely that Austria must continue to be able to operate in the field of agriculture and food production free of genetic engineering. This political responsibility is known to all in this House, especially for the reason that people in Austria still reject green genetic engineering and face it negatively. We are aware of this political responsibility, too, because EU-level applications for authorisation for CFP constructions are being received on an ongoing basis because the issue of genetic engineering at EU level Allys need and it is extremely difficult to find such allies because the whole area of co-existence is not regulated, because the liability issues at European level have not been clarified, and because, as already mentioned, the voting process will take place in the Environment Council at the beginning of March, where the ban on cultivation, which Austria has imposed on two genetically modified maize lines, is to be abolished. With regard to the import bans of GMO constructions, Austria has always had a very clear opinion: The deficiencies and weaknesses were identified in the risk assessment and, of course, also the associated environmental and health risks. However, we have not yet managed to make it clear and clear enough that these worrying environmental aspects should also be taken into consideration and taken into account before GMO constructions are approved. Of course, a number of studies have been carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Health, with the support of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, and one of them that has been addressed today, this new study by the Veterinary Medical University and the Research Institute for Biological Agriculture, clearly proves that the Austrian scepticism, which was addressed to these corn lines and in particular to the market authorisation of these maize lines, was really justified and that this multigenerational study, which was created, opened up a whole new field. Of course, it is also surprising for us that the support we had actually expected from EFSA has not come, but you have already heard from the Federal Minister of Education what are being done, and that you are urged to gain support from other states, so that in future these scientific findings can be guided by the approval of genetically modified constructions, so that this method can become, as it were, a high-quality scientific standard. The results obtained from this study have all cheered up, for the first time there has been such a long-term feeding of GMO constructions. Since the reproductive performance of experimental animals has been affected, it is necessary to: Of course, we should stick to it and continue to pursue it. I am also convinced that the Federal Minister for Health, Alois Stöger, and, of course, the Federal Minister for the Environment and Agriculture, Nikolaus Berlakovich, will pursue this path well and consistently! It's a Sisyphus work, we know – otherwise it wouldn't have taken so long. The problem of green genetic engineering has often been identified, but I think we are now on a new path with new insights – and this path that has been shown by Austria is the right one. Now it is about getting other nation states into the boat, and I think that we are well positioned and well coordinated. Therefore: We are on the right path for Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13490	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13511	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the crowds! The question we are dealing with here today, especially the answer to it, gives a truly diverse insight into the events surrounding the GMOs – or we say in general: in the green genetic engineering. Let us start with an opinion from the Ministry. It is good that the Minister commissions such scientific work, however: The quoted EFSA itself does not make its own opinions and in principle only recognises the opinions of those companies that also produce these products. – Is that objective? You call that objectivity? – If this were the case with consumer protection, the whole thing would have turned off for a long time. The answer of the Federal Minister for Health to Question 2 shows yes what it is about in detail. The question was to what purpose this study was prepared, and the Federal Minister answered it as follows: This is not a risk assessment of the product in accordance with the guidance document on risk assessment, but a study in the context of risk research – that is exactly what EFSA would like to see – with scientific new land entering. – That means we are moving in the field of basic research. However, this study – the Minister has already said that – will not accept EFSA. There has been, as it were, a failure, because the animals, namely those who have been given this feed in the course of these studies, because they are sometimes forced to feed; of course, they themselves would not take this into account. The bans on imports have already been repealed and therefore 600 000 tonnes of gene-treated soya can also be fed annually. And now, a few months after the removal of the ban on imports, the bans on cultivation should also fall on us – and the ban on imports. Complete with the wacky “argument”, all of this was not scientifically supported. That is why I would like to ask you: Is it not possible in the ministries responsible for this, or is it not, to act better against it? In the case of Mr. Stöger, however, I must say that I do not think so, but rather I believe that in EFSA, yes, there is only a corporate dictatorship in the whole organisation of the EU. You should also think about it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP has set up a number of agriculture ministers and also health ministers – in this context I only call the names Pröll, Rauch-Kallat or Kdolsky – but unfortunately nothing has happened in these areas at all. Now, Minister Berlakovich and Minister Stöger are planning a joint alliance with France, Greece and Hungary. – It’s nice, but that could have happened a little earlier. This happened to me at times of various ÖVP ministers. However, I am not surprised that this has not happened, because if the then Minister for Agriculture Pröll and the Commissioner responsible for agriculture Fischer-Boel have said that it is not a question of whether, but a question of how, it is possible to see their whole basic attitude. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are discussing this topic here – and the EU and EFSA are already creating realities outside, because while we are still thinking about multigenerational studies, which may last months, yes years, in Brussels – and this within a very short time – the whole thing is established by law; and then we are bound by it. This works, as mentioned above, with the qualified majority – and if such a majority is not achieved, the EU Commission has the power to decide. In here, there may be another agricultural agricultural council that tells us that this does not do anything anyway. But any backyard gardener can grow these genetically modified organisms. I am already asking why, in Austria, this classification – in addition to a functioning structure with a functioning self-sufficiency – is a matter for the agricultural industry, and where – I am quite clearly saying here – the freedom of choice of the consumer is clearly restricted, because, as a consumer, it is no longer possible to recognize the following animal products, where genetically modified products have been fed or where this has not been the case. This seems to me a little bit as with the securities consultants, with the less serious ones who can read and write a paper under the nose and say: That brings 25 percent profit and: zero risk! The companies Monsanto and Bayer certainly have the profit – and the risk unfortunately has the population; and the whole works only in the system that allows a power policy of these companies. I don't want to talk about compliance at all – and I don't want to know what's going on about currents and lubrications. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] In this context, however, and in conclusion: This insolent policy of power should be speeded up as quickly as possible! – But I am also surprised by the statements made by the Greens, who speak on the one hand of “attacks” on humanity, but on the other hand, with a real slulom, a “critical yes” to the Lisbon Treaty, which does not make the whole situation any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13627	Mr Huber's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13648	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is not only about the import and cultivation of genetically modified GMOs, but also about – and I believe that all five parties should stand together – protecting the population of Austria from it, because already today 95 percent of all feeders in Austria have been genetically modified. Raiffeisen imports 600 000 tonnes of genetically modified soya alone. Genetically modified soya comes directly from America and is going to be in Austria... – This is the truth, colleague GrilIitsch! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] [[Abg. Bucher: The land is governed by Raiffeisen!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There we must protect Austrian farmers! A survey has shown that the Austrian farmers do not at all want such feed – and there are alternatives today so that we can do away with genetically modified soya. In addition, only a few figures: 60 000 tonnes of genetically modified soybeans are fed on dairy cows in Austria, 50 000 tonnes on the mastriders; the rest in poultry and pig farming, even in fish breeding, is fed! Ladies and gentlemen, fish too has already been genetically modified and, of course, comes into other foods! – Everyone should stand together; we must ban that right away, that belongs to abandoned! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] ==References== There was a joint request by all five parties in this regard on June 2008. In my opinion, however, this is far too little. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I also do not understand that you are not even talking about it, for: This is a major problem that in Austria consumers do not know that they get genetically modified food on the plate. This must be borne in mind: The Austrian farmers hold around 12 million chickens, 3.3 million pigs, about 2 million cattle and around 300 000 sheep – and: 95 percent of these are fed with genetically modified feed, 90 percent of which comes from the Raiffeisen warehouse or other Raiffeisen daughters! Every year, 470 000 tonnes of pigmeat are produced in Austria, 225 000 tonnes of beef, 109 000 tonnes of poultry, 1.4 billion eggs and 3.4 billion litres of raw milk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – I'll be right there, colleague Krainer! [[Abg. Krainer:... voted against that...!]] – That’s all, my dear colleague Krainer! Please keep the rest! By the way: The tie also fits; do not get nervous. The annual consumption per capita of an average Austrian is 65.3 kg of meat, of which 40 kg of pig meat, 12.3 kg of beef, about 11 kg of poultry and about 110 kg of milk. And the average Austrian eats 221 eggs a year. Please explain this to the consumer: 90 percent of these were fed with genetically modified feed, with genetically modified feed. [[Call at the SPÖ: Bucher voted against it too!]] Explain this to the consumer! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But I can tell you why! – Because the biggest...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13739	Mr Krainer, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13760	There are alternatives today. We could turn this off right away. In the short term, there is also enough soybean gene-free from South America. You know that very well. This can be taken back, because it belongs to the cultivation of beans, peas and whole fat soybeans in Austria, so that we can handle it. Protect our farmers from this raiffeisen policy! And we also need to protect the population from this genetic engineering policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The BZÖ demands an immediate ban on imports of genetically modified soya!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13808	Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13829	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say briefly about the comments made by my previous speaker: Mr Huber, the things you mentioned are all important and necessary. The Greens have been applying for this for a long time. But I think you have not understood the political brilliance of the present situation, nor what will happen in the Council in 20 days. This is what we are talking about today, and that is why this question was discussed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] On Mr Deimek's comments from the FPÖ: I was a little surprised when, at the end of the day, you criticised us for standing up for the Lisbon Treaty. I think you have not understood what is in this Lisbon Treaty either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner as well as intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] Do you know that this is also about increased democracy in the EU and more rights for the European Parliament? And have you ever heard that this very European Parliament is also an ally in the question of genetic engineering in the enforcement of your concerns, ours and these Austrian concerns? So stop mixing things there! The Lisbon Treaty would also strengthen exactly the European Parliament and would contribute to the fact that concerns such as GMO-free regions within the European Union are indeed being strengthened. So leave this polemic to the Lisbon Treaty! That's no use at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But back to the subject. First of all, Mr Stöger: I am pleased that you seem to have done some things in recent days, letters to EFSA, to the Commission, to the representatives in Brussels, to the Environment Ministers. I think that is an important and good step. What I'm missing: What to do You're still writing and informing except for letters? On the basis of the debacle of the Austrian banks, Mr Pröll has made a very public and probably not so effective journey through many countries in the EU to make it clear that support is needed to save Austrian banks. Have you perhaps thought about making a similar visit to countries where the people do not want genetically-technically contaminated food, to countries where there are strong civil society organisations and environmental ministers who want to support you in this matter together with your colleague Berlakovich? Have you thought about doing that? It would be a command of the hour, before this 2. March in fact to make a visit to countries where you get support from the population. Then your letters, which you have written now, would be credible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Without that, it remains with a good initiative, but that is too little. So: Are you planning on making these trips? And a second: Are you making these letters available to us? I would very much ask you to make these letters available to Members, who have written them, but also to publish them on the Ministry's website, so that the general public can also have access to this letter and also use them for their lobbying, especially environmental NGOs and so on, also in other countries. [[Federal Minister Stäger nodds.]] I think that can create more pressure. And I take your headpin so notice that you will actually also provide the Members with the letters and the letters will also be published on the website. I hope you do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But to the question: Mr Minister, what has already surprised me was that you have found in the answer to question 3 that the results of the studies give evidence of possible changes in reproductive performance, but that the conditions which would justify a withdrawal of the market are not at present given. I already have the impression that a study is being commissioned, then there are results that are actually worrying, and then you say: Well, yeah. I have the impression that you get scared of your own courage and go to your knees, because you have said to the next question, first in the answer to the question, no further research tasks are currently planned. At the same time, however, you have said that you are very likely to continue working on it if the budget allows it. Mr Minister, are you now so important to the question of GMO-free regions in Austria and in the rest of Europe that you will also tell the Minister of Finance that these studies will continue? If, however, the dear Minister of Finance says: No, unfortunately, we have to save, we can't!, is that not important to you? This is the Gretchen question, Minister: Will you continue to ask these questions? Will you win the budget for further studies? And one last thing: Will you make even more progress towards EFSA that the criteria will also be changed? It cannot be assumed that a European agency is massively influenced by the genetic engineering lobby and that one cannot agree here on behalf of the Environment Ministers and others that these criteria have been changed so that national studies are actually recognised. That is why this fight is about these GMO-free regions. That's your job, too. This is also the European challenge, because Austrian, indeed all European citizens have a right to healthy food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13927	The debate is closed. [[18:47:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-02-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00013_d8e13948	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 438/A to 462/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 903/J to 907/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 26. February 2009, 9 a.m., and will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
