ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e2681	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 39. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 37. Meeting of 23. ==References====External links== Meeting of 24. In September 2009, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Josef Auer, Dr. Bartenstein, Mag. Lettenbichler, Praßl, Dr. Schüssel and Vilimsky. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e2715	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Minister for Justice Mag. Claudia Bandion-Ortner is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter. [[09:01:08]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e2748	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e2937	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request urgent consideration of the written question put at the beginning of the meeting 3204/J by Mr Strache, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection concerning ‘social responsibility rather than socialist failure in labour market policy and poverty reduction’. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 12 noon. I also announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 13.15 a.m. to 3.10 p.m. I am now interrupting the sitting by 12 noon.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e2976	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. [[12:00:33]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection on “Social Responsibility instead of Socialist Failures in Labour Market Policy and Poverty Control” (3204/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e3012	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 3204/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of this House, there is a lack of reading by Mrs Schreiber. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e3263	I give Mr Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner to justify the request in accordance with § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e3285	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For 2010, the European Union has proclaimed the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion. If you look closer at the Commission's homepage, you will see that there are some very high-intensity declarations there – declarations of intent, which unfortunately also show God that no concrete action can be found on this homepage, which would have been defined or planned to be implemented. It is rather sad to see this more precisely, and it can be assumed that a few consultants will probably get a job again and will earn quite well, but in the area of social responsibility, social improvement on the part of the European Union nothing will happen. The European Union in particular has seen a very, very neoliberal course in recent years, which has also helped to increase poverty in Europe and in the European Union rather than combat it. You are there for large corporations, for other lobbyism areas, for banks; you are doing lobbyism instead of being there for the weak and finally setting up concrete initiatives and measures for the weak. The middle class is also becoming more and more subject to the wheels. I therefore say: It is all the more important that we do something here in Austria, here in our Parliament, that our Federal Government also adopt national measures, finally take action at national level, and not just as the Federal Government under Red and Black simply waits for what the European Union proposes. It can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must not wait for Brussels to act in some way and to conjure away poverty in Austria. ÖVP and SPÖ seem to be waiting for this miracle to happen. But that's where we want them and we won't take them out of their responsibilities. Until now, these two parties have not really taken action here in Austria as far as social responsibility is concerned. And that is why we have convened today’s special meeting of the National Council on “Social Responsibility instead of Socialist Failures in Labour Market Policy and Combating Poverty”. With many applications today, we will try to fill this social gap that has arisen in Austria and to improve the social situation for the Austrians. I will address a few areas, and subsequent speakers will address further details. There is a great need for reform at all levels of politics, because our society is in a change, we know. We are talking about this change and we have been discussing it for some time. There are problems in the labour market, in the financing of our health system, in the long-term insurance of our pensions. There are also problems in the field of education where we experience that on the one hand there are classes of schools with 30 children, of which only two are Austrians, which on the other hand cannot function in such systems and, on the other hand, the level of education of all concerned is unfortunately falling. We have a situation in the field of public debt, which is quite dramatic. Unfortunately, we experience God’s further living mass immigration, which takes place completely indiscriminately, and unfortunately God’s development of a problem that affects our families, which we will later come to speak of. Solutions and answers must be found for all these topics and questions. However, the SPÖ has been dealing with itself in the last weeks and months without exception. She deals with herself and obviously comes upon it – painful, but still – that a smile by the Chancellor is simply too little when it comes to finally recognizing the social problems of the population, not talking them away and also taking action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrian People's Party, on the other hand, is in a phase in which one almost has the impression that the all-power imagination is growing, as one feels stronger and more and more self-confident. Yesterday in the Ministry of Finance a speech was given on the situation of the nation, where once again one had to experience empty phrases and beautiful words... – I did not complain. [[Abg. Bucher: (demonstrativ accompaniment donating) You have clattered!]] Mr Bucher didn't watch that, but he wasn't there, he didn't even know what was said. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But I was there and I heard it. And in this speech on the situation of the nation nothing has been done against poverty. [[Abg. Bucher: Why did you go?]] The social problems have not been dealt with seriously. One simply goes here and obviously wants to manage these social problems as before, instead of solving them. It is now a sad fact that poverty in Austria, along with the huge differences in income, is growing dramatically. This is a fact that cannot be denied. And I say, Halfhearted measures do not help here! The red and black coalition has no ideas in this regard to bring about a real turnaround. Let us look at the facts: About half a year ago, Statistics Austria wrote a paper entitled “Income, Poverty and Living Conditions”. The phenomenon of poverty was particularly illuminating, despite the year-round activity of working people, on Neudeutsche “Working Poor”. These people are becoming more and more in our country. They're getting more and more, not less! And the middle class crumbles, disintegrates and falls into poverty traps. If you look closer to the figures published there, you can see that it is extremely frightening how many people are at risk of poverty in the meantime despite continuous employment. In view of gross wages, it is 37 percent of all employees who are affected by it. Although these people work hard and have regular wage incomes, they are at risk of poverty. And one should assume that these groups are getting help from the state somewhere. But that is not the case! The social taxes and taxes to be paid by our state will drive another 534,000 people to poverty. This is a dramatic development! A social state cannot do that for itself. After taxes – including the Austrian statistics – more than half of Austrian workers are at risk of poverty. The proportion is exactly 54.7 percent. Of these 1.64 million Austrians, who are those at risk of poverty, only 208,000 are raised by state social benefits over the poverty risk threshold – the rest are not. More than 1.3 million are released from poverty by their own family relationship in the common budget, i.e. through a second income. We often experience this also in the pension area, where there are minimum pensioners who have to live from 450, 500, 550 € monthly pension, nor receive a compensation allowance, because there is anyway a husband who is a bit higher pension. But how far the social responsibility is that it is. I wonder if this system is really perfect. And I say, The system is not perfect! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Families with three and more children and single parents are most at risk of poverty. In Austria alone, we have over 200 000 single parents who are particularly vulnerable. Working single parents are affected by 19 percent, and families with three and more children are affected by 15 percent of poverty. Children are not only our contribution members of the future, but they also represent the future for our society as a whole. Parents and, above all, parents make a valuable contribution in our society. However, this contribution in the form of family work is not rewarded at all by politics and by this Federal Government, quite the contrary: You have the impression that if you have children today, you will even be punished financially. Instead, the Federal Government continues to promote uncontrolled, undifferentiated mass immigration, thus intensifying the social problems in Austria rather than alleviate them. We continue to import unemployed people – as we must recognise from the figures of the AMS – and the SPÖ has even been born great plans, such as by easing the transitional periods or opening up the labour market for asylum seekers, the problems for our Austrian workers can be further accentuated and heightened and lead to an eviction competition. All of this would only lead people to poverty traps, and that is not our way. We want support for our Austrian families to take place, and it is therefore time to think about models in which educational work is also paid for financially. Family work done should be provided with a child education content so that parents will finally receive support for their contribution to our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must also be possible to reconcile the work and family work phase in a row – without financial and social disadvantages. We spend a lot of money on the side-by-side, but we neglect the succession. Today, we will make proposals to ensure that in the future, if a parent is seeking to re-enter the labour market, he will be preferred and easier to achieve. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, we are thinking of a preference in the area of additional wage costs: Employment costs should be reduced, depending on the number of children, and the parents concerned should have an advantage on the labour market – although not directly by receiving more money, but by taking up a mother who is seeking to re-enter the labour market, in this way, and thus facilitating re-entry. Parents affected thereby have advantages. Another point is family benefits and the care allowance. As we know, 80 percent of care is provided in our families. There must finally be a legally regulated and secure inflation adjustment – it has been pending in this area for years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is where people in need of care and their families are abandoned, and we finally need a legally guaranteed inflation adjustment. That is why we are going to make a request on this issue today. Now for the redistribution of our tax and tax system: When an in-depth analysis of this subject area is carried out, the Wifo results are quite surprising. A month ago, a report entitled “Redistribution by the State in Austria” was published. Thus, the Wifo has once dealt with this redistribution, and it is calculated that, by transferring indirect taxes, such as VAT, social taxes and wage tax to the incomes, it is concluded that, regardless of the level of income, everyone in this country is taxed equally high, namely in the range of 37 to 40 percent. These are those who have to pay taxes in this tax area. That is, we actually have a flat tax for all tax-paying citizens of this country at a high level – 37 to 40 percent. That's what the Wifo calculated. Yes, please, down with the taxes to finally make a discharge and an economic cycle possible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These non-social and from our point of view absurd regulations must be reformed as quickly as possible. In particular, families are heavily disadvantaged by the lack of a minimum tax-free living for children and non-working parents – as well as by higher sales tax on higher consumption expenditure. I also say that it would be high time for a family tax split. We have been calling for this for years and have taken this issue seriously from the Free Party. To date, nothing has happened on the part of this Federal Government. I say that it is completely indifferent whether we are doing so through free amounts, as in the Federal Republic of Germany, or through a collective agreement, as in France – but something must finally happen in this area! The same applies to social security funds: There are more than 20 social insurance companies with us today. What do we need them for? – Bavaria has more inhabitants than Austria and comes with a social security fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We no longer live in the Middle Ages, where you have to arrange everything about tickets. There are computer systems, administrative simplification and cost savings, and that is why we say: Let us make it transparent that there should be a social security fund for Austrian citizens and EU citizens, and one for non-EU citizens, in order to finally have a true cost! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say it quite openly: In particular, immigration into our social system must end. Many of the people who are upset with us are highly skilled people who work hard, pay taxes, integrate first-class, and then, quite rightly, receive Austrian citizenship. No reasonable Austrian has a problem with that either. But unfortunately we also experience very, very many immigrants who have come to us who are not willing to integrate, are not willing to work, and are not willing to pay taxes – and for that the Austrians rightly have no understanding! It cannot be that our social system is constantly “fed through” these people who do not work here, so to speak. It must be said sometime that if someone becomes a long-term unemployed person, the one who has to go home, we can't keep it. This requires changes, including in the award of social benefits. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It cannot be as it is now, that social special benefits – such as social housing, family allowances or child benefits – can be used by anyone who comes to us almost from the first day. Then you should not be surprised that there is no incentive for integration and that our social state must stand in front of the bankruptcy – as is the case today. Something has to be changed, and it has to be done quickly, otherwise our social system – but also our health system – will be bankrupt faster than some believe it today, and more people will be at risk of falling towards poverty. As far as pensioners are concerned, we will also make a request today – for the time being – at last to ensure the annual automatic and legal adjustment according to the pensioner price index. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is exactly the situation that we have to experience in recent years: The pensioners are treated by you like bitters. They have worked hard for a lifetime and are now abandoned on the evening of life. They must tremble and ask and beg each time to receive a pension increase, but never – or almost never – in the area of the statutory pensionist price index. And that is exactly what we should finally give the pensioners as safety. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Two years ago, you have made a pension adjustment from Red and Black – a constitutional pension adjustment – where you have stolen and robbed the minimum pensioners. 500 000 minimum pensioners have been treated worse by you than those pensioners who have paid more pension – and we have lived up to these minimum pensioners from FPÖ social responsibility. We went to the Upper Regional Court of Vienna, and we have processed that these 500 000 minimum pensioners, whom you have robbed in the last two years on average 240 €, will also receive these 240 € – for these are the poorest of the poor you have left out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, we need an administrative reform; yesterday it was addressed. For a decade, the SPÖ and ÖVP have been discussing this, but we are only experiencing blockages, and yesterday the Minister of Finance speaks of a conclave. [[Call the ÖVP:One!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: The conclave!]] The government parties will put together for an administrative reform – as he has announced – and will sit down for so long until finally the white smoke rises. You will probably be sitting together again for ten years and then the hot air will rise again, as we have experienced for the past ten years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ÖVP and SPÖ have been associated with the administration for half a century by means of zig thousands of cross-links, favors, post awards and promises. And yesterday we heard from the Minister of Finance: He has pretended that the ÖVP had not been in the Federal Government in recent years! – Yes, please, where have you been for the last 20 years? Of course you were in the Federal Government! What was best given yesterday made everything the impression of hearing it for 20 years. There are enough proposals for a reform, and there is basically no political will to do so. Already in April of the previous year, the Chamber of Economic Trustees presented a model of the integrated income tax and social contribution rate, which was also called worth considering by Wifo. And the university professor Paul Kirchhof – the most quoted scientist in Germany – has been working for years on an income tax code that could reduce the tax-related paragraphs from 50,000 to 370 – and this concept has now been completed. I think you should also check in Austria at least once if you could not take over some of what is being thought of in Germany – in a modified form – because that is very reasonable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're at a turn of events. It will be up to policy to see whether our Austria is going slender and well-equipped into the future and living up to social responsibility and whether, in the administrative field – without losing quality – slimming measures are finally taking place, and the savings measures will then benefit citizens directly in the form of tax reliefs. The FPÖ will continue to point out, in the coming years, errors and failures that have occurred and continue to occur. We will be a reliable partner for all employees, employees, but above all also for the middle class – for these are the leaders of our society – and not only do lobbyism policy for industry and banks, as we experience it today. Today, social responsibility, courage, but also future orientation – characteristics that this red and black German government unfortunately lacks completely.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e3493	In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, Mr. Hundstorfer, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e3541	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I answer the 30 questions asked to myself, I am allowed to look a few minutes into the past and then a few minutes into the present. We have experienced a strache FPÖ here, which was not in the government in the years 2000 to 2005. [[Abg. Strache: That was a shark FPÖ!]] We have experienced here a strache FPÖ, which is quite simple... [[Abg. Stache: So I wasn't in there! Do not say the falsehood!]] – Dear Mr Strache, don’t be so sensitive! They represent this party as a leader – supposedly – and therefore, I think, I can mention that this is a strache FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Be honest in your life!]] Let me take a look at what this FPÖ has done. [[Abg. Neubauer: You should look to the future! It's about the future!]] – In the future, we are coming very quickly, Mr Deputies. I know you're not right about the past, because: What was it in the five years of the government's participation in the liberals? Did the family kindness come to life? Has family aid been increased during the five years? - No! We have 13th in this government last year. Family aid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What has the FPÖ done for the unemployed in these five years? [[Abg. Riepl: Nothing at all!]] We had 360 000 unemployed people in 2004 and 2005, as many as never before, as many as we are likely to never reach again. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Thank you SPÖ! Thanks to the Social Democracy!]] What did you do? - Nothing! We in this Federal Government have given the answer this year with a record budget of €1.4 billion. We have already been able to provide 455,000 people with new jobs and save 100 000 jobs through our labour market and economic packages. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who wrote this again?]] These are achievements in the biggest financial crisis. [[Conjugation with SPÖ and bravoruf des Abg. Riepl.]] And because you focus so much on the topic of apprentices: What was it in these five years? – The truth is – it is sometimes unpleasant, I know – that the trial period has been extended and the retention period has been shortened. [[Abg. Weinzinger: That's all right!]] What are we doing? . We give young people an opportunity, we in this government give young people a training guarantee, and this training guarantee will be implemented quickly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If there is talk of pensioners, the question is what is happening here. [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is socialist politics!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! They have contributed to the removal of the minimum income guarantee for pension funds. They have also contributed – among other things – to the harmonisation of pensions in 2003 and 2004. [[Abg. Street: There was no one with us! You're wrong! They're sitting over there, these are the oranges you mean!]] Mr Strache, there is no question that you are criticising what is still present in the countries on pension systems. You were a member of the Wiener Landtage in 2004 and I can attend your broadcast from 13th century. July 2004 exactly in which you meant: Vienna shows how to implement a pension reform harmoniously, and the federal government makes it unharmonizing. Today you have changed your opinion, I take note of it. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: But this is really a funny twist that you give the best here!]] I should also like to say quite openly, because the question of integration is always being discussed here: No question, we have integration problems, that is not to ignore at all. [[Abg. Strache: The Lord who signs the list of attendance and does not know...!]] – No, you need to know exactly what I signed there, then you will know what I did at this Annual General Meeting. I knew it very well. What was it like with the seasonal kidneys in 2004? [[Call the FPÖ: How was the BAWAG?]] The highest level of foreign seasonal eggs in the Second Repu-blick – under FPÖ government participation. At that time there were 12,000 foreign seasonal eggs. Then you've carried something else: They have contributed to the abolition of pension insurance for the harvest workers. That's what you've brought. [[Abg. Strache: I didn't carry that! You should stick to the truth! The oranges sit over there! There was no Member, so stick to the truth!]] – No, I think there were many who showed up. [[Abg. Strache: Stay with the truth!]] Now we come to the present. Let's see how much the current FPÖ is committed to small people, to social weakness! – This federal government and the previous federal government have presented a tax reform, which today has more net incomes for small and medium-sized earners. Who was against it? - The FPÖ! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Yes, because it was too little!]] We have preferred the increase in the pension planned for 2009 to 2008 so that senior citizens get more money so that high inflation is paid more quickly. Who was against it? - The FPÖ! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: They just don't feel anything!]] We have introduced the Free Kindergarten and the mandatory kindergarten year. Who was against it? – The FPÖ! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That has been our demand for ten years!]] We have abolished or reduced unemployment insurance contributions for all, for income below €1 350. Who was against it? - The FPÖ! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] This Federal Government has presented two economic packages, two labour market packages. Who was against it? - The FPÖ! This federal government and the previous federal government have covered the prescription fee so that sick people do not have to suffer even more financially. Who was against it? - The FPÖ! [[Call the FPÖ:Absurd!]] We have introduced the New Secondary School so that social rise of children depends not only on rich parents. Who was against it? - The FPÖ. And the same applies to the pendulum fee. [[Abg. Strache: The social rise is noticeable!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue this list, but I cannot and do not want to claim my speaking time for a fee. I just want to point out a few things: On the subject of immigration. – We had the highest migration balance when the FPÖ was in this government in 2004 and 2005, namely a migration balance of 50 000 people each. We currently have a migration balance of 34 000 people. What about the naturalizations? [[Abg. Weinzinger: Admit that immigration is a problem!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I know that certain numbers are unpleasant, I know that certain archives are unpleasant. I can tell you that from my own experience, that's not the subject at all. The topic is that you should always confess to your past, to what you did and where you were – and at that you were. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They criticize disproportionate citizenship. Currently – or in 2008 – we have 10 200, while your government participation was 34,876. [[Abg. Strache: This is national captain's competence! Your mayor, Häupl, has the head of state competence!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's incredible! Stay with the truth! That was your law that we then changed!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on something, on a fair and orderly relationship in our country, which does not highlight prejudices and hatreds, but rather on the fact that people are properly integrated and also comply with rules of play. [[Call the FPÖ: You are preaching hate!]] [[Abg. Strache: Yes, please, what did I say?- Oh, my God!]] Now I can come to this demand for the separation of social security schemes between nationals and foreigners. [[Abg. That's wrong! Didn't you listen? Unfortunately, they never listen!]] I know what you want, I'm not swimming on the noodle soup. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can help you a little bit with numbers. Point one: the situation in the Federal Republic of Germany or in Bavaria. – 222 social security funds are available in the Federal Republic of Germany, an administrative share of 5.2 percent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Yes, but a competition between the insurance companies! That's something completely different!]] In Austria we have an administrative share of 2.2 percent. Do you really want to make more contributions to the Austrians? [[Abg. Blow: Less!]] – I can show you this by means of an example: In 2008, the social security contributions of all foreign self-employed workers amounted to €2.2 billion in revenue, with expenditure for the same group of persons amounting to € 1 billion. [[Abg. Weinzinger: I believe this!]] [[Abg. Strache: Then the budget should be filled!]] You can calculate all of this; no problem! For all other monetary social benefits, foreign workers paid around €2 billion in 2008 and the benefits they received for these social benefits amounted to 1.7 billion. – According to Adam Rieese: a payment increase of 1.5 billion, and these 1.5 billion land in various social security schemes. [[Abg. Scheibner: Did you also expect the transfer services?]] If your plans were to go, the Austrians would have to pay more by 1.5 billion in order to maintain the same level of performance. So much for your separation of social security funds. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also repeatedly referred to the risk of poverty that the unemployed are poor. – Yes, there are many people in this country who have very low incomes that have to calculate very little. We all need to work together to ensure that salaries continue to develop, we all need to work together massively to ensure that income increases. That's not a question at all! But it's not 37 percent of the unemployed – let's stick to the truth here too! – it's 6 percent! – That’s our problem, that’s our problem group. [[Call the FPÖ: This is not true! That's lying!]] I would like to invite you to read the statistics-austria data together, then you will find out where the interpretation error lies here. [[Call the SPÖ: It's about understanding!]] I can now come to the 30 questions. I think we agree, for times of economics, that I can only do this more numerically. Question 1: The opposite is the case. This government has succeeded in combating unemployment as effectively as in no other EU country. We have the slightest increase both overall and especially in youth. The economic and labour market packages have created nearly 100 000 jobs. I've already said this: Without these measures, unemployment would be one third higher. I also allow myself to point out once again that during your government participation – at a high economic time! – the unemployment rate was much higher. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Abg. Street: I didn't have one! I wasn't involved in any government!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On question 2: We've been since 1. September 2009 the general client's responsibility to combat organized black work in construction in effectiveness. Since last year, we have effectively applied for social security before the start of work – one of the most important measures to combat undeclared work. We also have an increase in the control bodies of health insurance companies, we have created an increase in the control bodies of the Ministry of Finance, the KIAB, and we have also created another control system with a novel to the Civilian Vacation Law against the establishment of sham companies. Questions 3, 4 and 5: First of all, I would like to point out that in December 2003, the FPÖ – whichever is – agreed to the accession of the new Member States and the transitional arrangements, which it now obviously does not want to know about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] We have fully exhausted the transitional periods during this legislative period and will do so in future for Bulgaria and Romania. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] I am not concerned about the conclusion of contracts with the EU, which, by the way, the FPÖ has largely agreed to, because I am aware of the following: I am reliable and stick to what has been agreed by contract, both within the country and in relation to other European Union partners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Questions 6 and 7: Despite the economic crisis, we have much more teaching posts than in the past. The training guarantee works. We have more apprentices this year than in 2007 – according to the current figures – we have fewer job seekers than a year ago – that is, minus 0.8 percentage points – and we have more than 3 400 apprenticeships available as trainees. What I would like to repeat in this context: Practically all apprenticeships in Austria, with the exception of the public service's own, are funded monthly with an average of 230 € per apprentice. There is no question that we must all work together and, above all, continue to try to train skilled people in the same way. Questions 8 and 9: Although I am not responsible for the ÖBB and for the ASFINAG, I am still allowed to give you an answer on behalf of the BMVIT: The expansion programme for rail and road in 2009, agreed in the Federal Government, amounting to 3.5 billion, including the economic packages, will ensure more than 50 000 jobs in the economy in 2009. This is also true in the following years, as the investment volume will remain at this high level. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At least in the ads!]] By 2014, 22.5 billion, including the additional 900 million business package, will be invested in rail and road. There are no cancellations of the route development plans. The framework agreed between BMF, BMVIT and the companies, including a business package, is fully maintained and is also implemented. In this respect, no one job is lost. Question 10: No question at all: We have a legal situation, and this will remain so! Questions 11 and 12: More than 45 000 people are currently being trained in very high-quality qualifications. That is by 45 percent more than in 2008. By the end of September, the many dedicated employees of the AMS had already provided 455,000 people in employment and had further trained 280 000 people in skills. I don't want to let anyone talk about the work of these many dedicated employees by you and anyone else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The qualification bonus of 100 and 200 € per month will also be extended to external further training next year. On the question 13: In international comparison, long-term unemployed and families have high replacement rates in Austria. The qualification bonus, € 100 or € 200 per month, gives rise to a net replacement rate of 71 percent from the third month of continuing training for the unemployed. Question 14: The focus in the care sector has been strongly forced this year. 4000 people have or are being additionally trained in this crisis-proof labour market. This is also the labour market with the highest increase in active employment. Question 15: With the “Action 4000”, we create a total of 4,800 jobs for long-term unemployed and in addition increase employment in the second labour market by 1,600. On the question 16: A working group in my department is currently meeting on the subject of progressive disability compensation, and I hope that it will succeed to inspire the economic representatives accordingly. On the question 17: It has succeeded in increasing the employment rate of older people by 12.2 percentage points over the last four years, and despite the crisis, employment in older people continues to grow. Among other things, pension schemes have been improved in a targeted manner. On the question 18: The social partners' agreement on a minimum wage of €1,000 was reached consistently in spring 2009, and 80 percent of collective agreements in Austria have a minimum wage of €1,200. But essentially: In Austria, wage policy is the responsibility of the social partners. These, of course, fulfil their responsibility for social, economic success. I should just like to remind you that the FPÖ has done nothing about this during its government participation. On question 19: The distance between the BMS and the minimum wage is appropriate. This is not only my personal opinion, but also that of the government. Question 20: A total of €600 000 – 250 000 EU, 350 000 own funding – is planned for events and awareness-raising during the year of poverty. In addition, some €200 million a year will be needed to improve emergency aid for the unemployed, health insurance, state social assistance, all of this within the framework of the BMS, and this will be effective in 2011 to the full. On question 21: Austria has always recovered all the resources from the European Social Fund and will do so in the current period up to 2013. The full sum is € 525 million. We are also in the process of making the next payment application for 2009. In the negotiations for the EU budget from 2014 onwards, we will, of course, be committed to increasing this summit by retranslating from other areas. On the question 22: With 1. In January 2009, the Federal Government has carried out the largest increase in care money, between 4 and 6 percent, only the volume of this increase was € 120 million, while under your government participation it was only increased by 2 percent. I think we can say here because of the increase we made in 2009: It is an essential step. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Questions 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 allow me to answer in one. According to an estimate, the net additional costs of the countries for the BMS will not exceed € 50 million. In 2007, the countries spent around €450 million in open social assistance. In addition, some €150 million will be added for annual improvement of emergency aid, health insurance, and all of this, as I have already said, will be fully effective from 2011 onwards and the last part of 2010. There are no specific figures on the proportion of persons with a migration background to the beneficiaries of social assistance. However, feedback from countries shows that the social assistance share of foreigners is sub-proportional in terms of their population. In addition, the least beneficiaries of full social assistance are, and their period of reference is also low. I can remember: 160 000, 165,000 people received social assistance last year, of which only 10% were permanent. The rest were temporary social assistance. Asylum seekers will not receive BMS, third-country nationals and EU citizens will only receive BMS in the context of EU and international law, and I say once again: Third-country nationals have five years of waiting time. Overall, even further on this issue: The average length of residence of foreign unemployed is 13 days or 15 percent lower than that of domestic unemployed. Your average monthly unemployment benefit is € 750. As I have already said, the Austrian social system benefits from foreigners. They're net payers. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: I will take you to the labour market service! Let's go together.]] Yeah, I'd love to. Mr Strache, there are several or many differences between us, but there is a serious difference. I visit all AMS services, unlike you, and I visit them at a time when something is going on, and not when the AMS service is closed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Don't give the impression! I'll go there with you once! You're going to the Director-General, we're going to the people!]] On the question 28: Austria's poverty risk ratio is currently 12 percent below the EU-27 average. In this and the last period of government there have been many social policies that have a positive impact on the reduction of poverty: Tax reform, 13. Family allowance, Free Kindergarten, Childcare benefit improvement, Income-related childcare allowance, Labour market measures, Care care, 24-hour care, enhancing care fees, taking over social security contributions from care level III, raising pensions, minimum safety care, health measures, cover of the recipe fee, ensuring the funding of the cash registers, in the education of smaller classes, full-day schools, abolition of study fees. On question 29: I have already been working to ensure that people with a lack of credit are given access to a basic account without an overdrafting framework, and will continue to do so. In discussions with Austrian banks it was possible that some banks followed the example of the Second Sparkasse and, for example, the BAWAG P.S.K. Since April of this year also offers such an account, i.e. without a framework of overdraft, under the slogan “New Chance Account”. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Bitch.]] Question 30: On the question of social abuse, I can give you a very saloppe answer: Fraud remains fraud, and fraud must be avoided in accordance with the criminal code. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e4268	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll set the clock up to 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e4295	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! After this historic trip by the Minister of Social Affairs, who was full of uncertainty, I also allow myself to take a look at the history. It has not been too long since, since a movement that was still largely made up of decent people at the time, namely the Social Democracy, celebrated its centenary birthday. [[He-Rufe at SPÖ]] And there this social democracy has claimed that there are three pillars of social democracy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I think one has called “consumer”, the second pillar was the union/BAWAG, and the third pillar was the party. Let us take a look at what was left of these three pillars a little while later! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Hundstorfer, who is making himself here and, as I have said, Plays down there with historical unhearths, was leading everywhere in the ruin of the “consumer” as well as in the ruin, almost ruin of the union and in the ruin of the BAWAG. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't want to say now that you were the mastermind, but They were a big part of it. And I wouldn't take my mouth so full, honestly. When you look at who was left there in these phases: These are exactly the small, decent and honest socialists who have pulled you over the table for the last time, namely, when it came to pensions at the ÖGB. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These are your victims, and this is your way of making social policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you continue this way – we have seen it today in a physical way – it will not take much longer for the third pillar, it will be quite neat anyway. I can only say to you on the explanation where the difference between a FPÖ from the past and the strache FPÖ is: The Strache FPÖ will be the party that will ensure that one is at the 200. The anniversary of social democracy will only speak of it in the past form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Minister Hundstorfer, you are unfortunately – unfortunately I cannot spare you this accusation – an equally miserable social minister, as you have stood here today as a miserable historian. If you were to pursue your actual labour market policy and your actual measures to combat poverty in Austria, which indisputably smells of heaven, with the same vehemence and the same spirit as your beauty agency out there, then I guarantee you that you would probably even have a joy, then it would be much better for people in the Republic. But you are here in the face of the worst situation we have ever had on the labour market, and in view of the worst situation we have in the field of poverty, you are pretending that people outside would dance with enthusiasm about your actions on the street, light fireworks and fall into the arms of aliens. That's not the truth! It looks different! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, your policy is much more to characterise than a kind of displacement mechanism, but we would basically need a solution mechanism. They're a gifted disperser. This is what we are experiencing today and yesterday, namely in the area of hackers' pension. There you turn to patron saint, patron saint towards hackler board against the admittedly unsocial attack by Mr Finanzminister, who simply wants to turn this off in 2013. But what you're not saying is that you promised before the election, of course, that there will be this hacker board indefinitely, that it will be transferred to the permanent right. But what did you do after the election? – What you always do: They put a abdominal area in front of the ÖVP. This has resulted in the 2013 deadline. That is why we have a debate at all about how things continue after 2013. That's the reason. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are not the patron, but you are someone who has accelerated this resolution process, which will eventually end there, that it will probably be best if the people die from the workbench. This is probably the model proposed by the ÖVP in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words on unemployment. Mr Minister, now I ask you: Wouldn't you feel that yourself, I say, bad joke or perhaps, if you put it a little more clearly, actually, if you, for example, as a unemployed Mr. Dogtorfer or as an emergency beneficiary, or as a young dog's gater, who doesn't stop and doesn't get a job somewhere, desperately sit at home and think about how you could use the non-existent money to do something from the upcoming Christmas season, for example, what you could offer your family, what you could offer your children, how you get over the winter in view of the situation that is now in the heating sector – and if you think about it, while you're going through the paper and there by the Social Minister's dog's gate, there's huge ads on the inside: The labour market works, the packages work, the crisis is mastered!? – Then, as I mean, you would feel just as planted and basically puzzled as the people concerned do. And since I am telling you that the unemployed in Austria are so well aware that they have nothing to do with your international comparisons, because no one in Austria has yet benefited from the poverty of the others. You should write that over your ears! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They speed up a healing world for humans. This does not only happen in the social field, which is at all the principle of this government, which is no different in terms of crime and in terms of security. There is a healing world, in the social sphere, in the labour market a healing world, in the field of poverty a healing world. In reality, however, reality is quite different, it is desperate. And that's what everyone knows who's affected by it. And the number of people concerned is as large as it has never been. You can't go there and beautify all of this in the way you do it. I also have to reject this attempt, which is constantly being heard in your arguments: the problems we have in terms of poverty and in terms of the labour market, as something that is caused by the current crisis alone. I would say that the crisis is part of the soup that the Austrian population now has to extinguish. But there is still a very, very important second part. This second part is what you and your predecessors – immediately colored, red/black – have failed what you have slept, where you have made wrong choices, contrary to the interests of the population. They have taken a course that is now leading to a dramatic rise in the situation in many areas within the crisis. There's a proper level of self-responsibility, there's a lot of things on your shit that we could actually have saved ourselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, I think only to show where this wrong direction is going, to the Foreign Employment Act, where you are now introducing pixels and the concept of the “forgone person”. One has to explain to the Austrians what the patient is: The patient is, for example, the black African asylum seekers who come to us who are seeking asylum while being caught as a drug dealer is not being postponed. And for these patient people, now you are working as if they have access to the labour market and therefore, of course, also access to social benefits. That is exactly what I mean when I speak of false points of change and a path that is basically to be described as a wood road, which you unfortunately continue to pursue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have of course – whether you like it or not – a real mistake in the apprenticeship area. I mean, it's a joke to go there in connection with our apprenticeship problem – you should listen better! – that one of the major problems is that compulsory school leavers no longer have a school level. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Now you just turn it around, now the school leavers are so to speak guilty that they do not find teaching places. This is your line of argument. But the whole thing is just the result of the fact that you basically reworked our compulsory school institutions. These are no longer places where one learns the basic cultural techniques of reading, writing, computing, what one needs later in the professional life, but they abuse our own youth – and that is a serious accusation – as an integration material for all the immigrants you have picked up in recent years and decades after Austria. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is child abuse, ideologically motivated, à la SPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Under these conditions, how should a qualification for the labour market be created? - I can't do that at all. I've got the suspicion that a completely different model is in store for you: Why are we supposed to get around with training, that actually costs too much money, that's too complicated; here we go another way, we simply import those that we ourselves no longer produce! So to speak, we get the workers, the workers, the skilled workers just from abroad, that's the much easier way! There the “beautiful SPÖ thinker” has already made its contribution with the model of the asylum seekers. We know that these asylum seekers, these asylum seekers who come to the country, are all “highly qualified”. These are those who sit in the truck with the aim of Germany between the boxes in the back and then are picked up in Austria, here for asylum. And because of their gratitude for getting into the country, so to speak, and wanting to have something that is not theirs, SPÖ still wants to allow them access to the labour market and thus to the social systems. That's a crazy thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to recruit workers like this, do it like that! Our path is another, we feel committed to the Austrian apprentices and the Austrian population. Your apprentice package has begun by waving out a successful apprentice's job, so you can say it. Then you have further developed the model that has proved itself, and with the further development it has come out that the condition under the line was much worse than it has ever been. This is not a reasonable policy in connection with our apprentices! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We feel obliged to our apprentices, ladies and gentlemen, and I am therefore finalizing a...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e4488	Mr deputies, this is not going to take place at times. I'm sorry. It's exactly... [[Abg. Strache: You didn't even ring! Then comes the final sentence!]] Your 10 minutes have been exhausted. [[Calls: Goodbye.]] [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Kickl.]] Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e4538	To explain why the past view of the Minister was correct: We know this rhetoric! This was also the case on the part of the FPÖ before 2000. The FPÖ then came to the government from the year 2000. From this moment on, blood, sweat and tears were announced – the very opposite of what was promised to voters when they were tried to get in touch with them when the FPÖ came to the government, then paradisiacal conditions break out. [[Abg. Kickl: What's become of the cap that was a revolution in the interior and called things by name!]] At that time the immigration rate was as high as never before, the crime rate as ever, the intelligence rate as low as never before, and 3,000 police officers were saved. I could continue the list endlessly. At least that was the case at the time. Today all of this sounds similar again. If someone here is choking up a special world, then I have to say, it was the speakers who made this urgent request today: Apocalyptic speeches that completely ignore what has been happening in the world, the effects on Austria, which are totally negated that there has been a series of social and economic measures for a lot of tax money, economic packages, economic packages, labour market packages, health insurance packages, which are being tried to take steps for pensioners, for the socially weak, against youth unemployment, within the framework of what a government can do. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kickl.]] But if you make yourself here and say: I demand infinitely many benefits, and I demand that no taxes be paid as far as possible!, it surprises me why you get any more votes at all, because the result is zero at the end of the day, the collapse, uniosity, not government ability. Because what someone wants is to try to believe you is that what you demand and say here is also feasible. When the result is again the total chaos and afterwards again blood, sweat and tears, I ask: Who likes to choose a Chamber of Torture? Who would like to drive a rusty nail into his own knee by choosing a particular party? - No one! That can't really be the intention! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stache: applause for self-knowledge!]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: The Minister has pointed out exactly what the payments of foreign workers required by the labour market mean in the cash registers and in the social security system. The Austrians would have to pay more €1.5 billion if we did not have these foreign workers who were paying into the social security scheme. Do you know what that is? – You are an enemy! Domesticly hostile! I have to think about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: How did you get this nonsense?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Let's take a break!]] So far, I've always heard you're xenophobic. No, you're an anti-national, because this in the final effect means that the more people have to pay contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e4629	Mr Klubobmann, I would ask you to interrupt your speech at this point, as we are now interrupting the sitting for a quarter of an hour and continuing again at 1.15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e4660	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e4684	Before I give Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap the floor to continue his speech, I announce that the Members of Parliament have requested Dr. Moser, colleagues, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure a committee of inquiry to investigate illegal influences in the field of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote will take place after the urgent question has been examined. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. I'm setting the rest of his speaking time, that is, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e4721	Madam President. High house! There have then been a number of points which have not actually been touched by the previous speakers, namely those points where, I believe, we have put very sensible measures and voted against them in almost all respects. [[Abg. Strache: Because it was too little! Because it's too little! Tell me why!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Because you want everything to be unanimous, just like it was in Russia at the time!]] And this is the subject of: What can be demanded for benefits, what can be financed? – This is something that must also be taken into account. Similarly, if you say, for example, in your article in the “New Free News ” you demand relief and support on the labour market by staggering a reduction in the additional wage costs for employers, you have never promised to do so if this leads to a loss of income in social security, which benefits are then to be reduced. You know, and then populism stops when you have to make yourself and then you have to say: And how do I finance it? [[Abg. Strache: You have forgotten the reduction of social security funds! The reduction of social security funds to two!]] How do I take it from? And, if I say, I want to pay less in social security: With what achievements do I save? – And then at the end of the day, it will come out that your model will have two classes in medicine and unfortunately your model will no longer finance God’s pensions and so on. – It is very crucial that you say that here, too, if we want to have a really serious debate. We have listed whether this was the 2009 tax reform, where we have fought in such a way that it is brought forward, and where we have succeeded in having over 80 percent, 88 percent of the Austrian population with this relief. [[Abg. You mean the "Minimundus" package?]] That's nothing! [[Abg. Kickl: A little bit you have to do!]] That must also be financed! So, it would have been time for you to signal approval and welcome it and not vote against it; whether that would have been the 13th. Family allowance is whether this is the introduction of the Free Kindergarten and the compulsory kindergarten year – something very important, which also plays a very important role in Vienna and which also means support for the middle classes. [[Abg. Strache: Surely not with a “minimundus” package, no!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Then why do you make it mandatory, Mr. Colleague? Why?]] [[Abg. Kickl: I would be interested in why it is mandatory and not voluntary!]] Yes, I know you don't like to hear that, because you are currently putting a reality in Vienna, which is not real at all, by suggesting that we are going to tolerate an asylum abuse here, although we have just decided that there should be no gaps in this area. [[Abg. Kickl: “Integration material”!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Our children as “integration material”, that’s what you plan!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Where did the 64 Kurds come from? Where are they?]] – So, an essential point in this discussion: What's real, and what's not really? Their reality is an artificial, apocalyptic, which only leads to a division of society: between the old and the young, between those who have children, and those who do not have children, between the foreigners and the domestics, between those with migration backgrounds and those who have lived here for a long time, and, and – a permanent divided society. [[Abg. Strache: A more socially just society, this is what we are about! No social society that is driving you forward!]] By the way, this is one of the reasons why it is often discussed: What would bring about a government participation by a Freedom Party at all – if it splits and does not unite and does not focus on national interest, that in national, joint efforts we solve the challenges of the crisis and really take steps to change here? With these pictures you draw, you don't meet the reality. But I'm just saying: Of course, every job lost is something that hurts us and we fight for. But the Minister pointed out earlier that we have secured hundreds of thousands of jobs with initiatives, that we have fought for every single youth workplace, that every single fate is an important concern for us, for which it is worth working. And just as I say, because in Vienna you're putting on the subject of crime rate: Yes, it's falling, and it's not getting up – like you're posterizing – but every break-in is one too much, every car break-in is one too much, every house break-in is one too much. [[Abg. Kickl: You slept for 15 years!]] Of course, we are in favour of more than 1,000 police officers in Vienna – who were saved in your time. [[Abg. Street: You continue to save! You have saved another 500 executive planning posts!]] During the time when the FPÖ was in government, 3,000 police were saved! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You saved another 500 in this government!]] This measure is important to us, because it is a matter of honesty in politics and because it is a matter of addressing things in concrete terms and of having real and honest solutions for it and not simply making demands in space and saying that, in case of doubt, it is the policy. [[Abg. Strache: Be honest once!]] You know very well what the backgrounds of the triggering of the financial crisis have meant with the effects of the threat to jobs worldwide and also in Austria. That's what you have to call by name – and not always just hold prosecutors against those who sit behind you! It's too easy to remember how you were sitting behind yourself. Above all, the oranges are required to revitalize their memory. These are things that, as I think, belong to a serious debate. We are also fighting for the basis of funding in the health sector. If Minister Stöger would not fight for every single euro, for every single reform in the health field, it would end with saving in the services or increasing contributions. Is that social? Can that be a goal? Therefore, you should participate constructively in this – do not project enemy images; You who constantly say: If you put the 22 social insurances together in two, then the world looks different! – With the administrative burden, which is a super-result at 2.5 percent, you can only say: This is proof that there is a saving of the cost-conscious operation here. This is not a program where you can automatically say: If you put that together, it'll be better! This proposal would be less close to citizens, would mean less close to insured persons, then there would be no more branches in the federal states. As a result, there would be a distance between the insured and the insured. - That's what you want? Kafka? Is Kafka Your program? Do you want Kafkaesque structures? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You would then eliminate inequality!]] Do you really want to return to the impenetrable, central, large Kafkaesque units? That's what you want?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We want the same pay for the same performance! You don't want that!]] So please, I'm really pleading for it – with all the Elan you have to bring up there because otherwise you can't get any attention in the media –: Stay with the truth and stick to reality! If, in both cases, you have an disturbed relationship with truth and reality, then you will only help to get the voters once more disappointed at the end of the path you are taking, as they have been disappointed.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e5009	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e5032	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! I mean, in principle, we cannot talk about work often enough and also about social policy. This already applies to normal times – and much more now, in these economically difficult times. Especially now that thousands of people have lost their jobs or are in danger of losing them, of course we have to devote ourselves to this issue again and again, and I therefore welcome this special meeting at the present time, because it is important to talk again about the important issue of employment and social affairs. But this meeting also gives us the opportunity to work out the difference between the government parties on this issue and the opposition, in particular the FPÖ, on the other hand. [[Abg. Scheibner: The FPÖ is actually interested that...!]] The FPÖ is all about, ladies and gentlemen: Debts are foreigners, and they get their own health insurance now, and then all social problems are solved! [[Abg. Strache: Debt is the government! The government's policy is to blame, not the people!]] The FPÖ is always concerned: She now wants to increase pensions, the care allowance, the family allowance and the child's allowance in the case of empty cash. Mr. Strache, do all the unemployed have work again? – It won't be that easy! [[Abg. Street: Instead of pushing the banks 15 billion into revenge, you should give the money to the citizens!]] Mr. Strache, how stupid do you think people are? [[Abg. Street: The 15 billion would be better removed from the citizens than...!]] Don't think people are stupid and don't sell them for stupid! They know very well what is needed and what is not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest concern for people is the preservation of their jobs at present; Work and own income: This is the basis for a self-determined outcome for people. This is important to people – and not empty promises! For this very reason, we have had to take a lot of money into our hands in recent times. There is no question at all, a lot of money: for economic packages with which we have supported the economy, for labour market policy measures – the Minister of the Social Affairs has previously listed them in a row – and also for a large tax reform. These are things that have contributed to the fact that the problem that exists worldwide is at least less in its impact than in most other countries. We have responded correctly from the first second. That is why the rise in unemployment in Austria has been significantly lower than in other countries. Youth unemployment is also significantly lower in us. We have to show the second-lowest in the EU. Mr Sozialminister, I would now like to make a comment to give the truth the credit: In the course of the withdrawal of the Social Democracy from the Federal Government in 2000, we took on a high level of unemployment – you are right. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Exactly!]] But the fact is: Before the re-entry of social democracy to the government, it was at record level. You have to say that for the sake of fairness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Once again learned something, Minister of Social Affairs!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Strache, in your urgent question, you claim that the differences in income would grow in Austria. – The opposite is the case! The absolute opposite is the case! The Wifo recently found that income differences have gradually decreased in Austria over the last 15 years. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Women still deserve less!]] You must be so fair and involve the transfer services in a serious consideration of course! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The women have a lower income, that's where the sheer goes up!]] Mr Sozialminister, once again to you: It should also be said that in the last 15 years 7 years there have been no social-democratic government participation. That must be said too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us also look at OECD statistics! – She says the same thing: Austria is among the countries with the lowest income differences between lowest and highest incomes. That must be said too! Mr Strache, if you read a statistics, you should read them fairly and in general and not selectively, as you do. [[Abg. That's what we did! The purchasing power is worse with us now than 15 years ago!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria we spend 30 percent of our economic performance on social matters. It's an international top value. Absolutely! Only: If you use your house mind, it will come about very quickly that you can only distribute what you have done before. Members of the other parties also come on it – not only Christian Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, we have necessarily done one thing in the crisis: We supported the economy with guaranteed money. [[Call the FPÖ:The banks supported!]] We have put in place labour market measures with guaranteed money. But one thing is clear: We have to repay this money! If we don't do it in the next few years, then our children and grandchildren will have to do it. Is that what you want? - We don't want that! That means we have to make every effort to make this spent money again in the next few years. However, this does not happen by constantly inventing new expenditure, Mr Strache, but it is rather by bringing the economy to life by creating new growth. Our Minister of Finance gave a lot of attention yesterday. [[Call the BZÖ: Well!]] He has also outlined how this can be achieved with the new growth. Pröll is right when he says that it is important to raise a new sense of responsibility in our society. Pröll is right when he says that it is about politicians, Mr Strache, not promising anything unsustainable. Pröll is right, too, when he says that it is about everyone taking on more responsibility for society in their field, in the sense of the guiding principle: It is not just a matter of thinking about what they can do for the Community, not just what they can get from the Community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a country with one of the highest social rates, in a country with the lowest income differences, it is really not urgent to invent new social benefits constantly. We must invest where the future will be decided, where the future of our children will also be decided! That's in the classrooms, that's in the research laboratories. Our future will be decided there! That means: All that Josef Pröll said yesterday: real school autonomy, forced all day school offers, increased research funding, to name just a few points, are answers to the challenges of the future. That means: We need the money for crisis management and for the necessary investment in the future. One thing has to be clear: This money cannot come from taxpayers again! We have to earn it! We also need to search through the expenditure side of our budgets – and we must not put the money out of the pocket of those people who, at the same time, bear the burden of the Community and the general public, namely the working people. That means: In a community of solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, of course less powerful people can count on the solidarity of the performance providers – no question at all! – but the service providers in our country must also be able to expect the reason and the sense of justice of politicians. That is, Mr. Strache: Yes, it is about distribution justice, but it is at least to the same extent also about performance justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e5246	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e5268	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap said: Stay with the truth! I welcome this – but I expect a member of the government to do so. Mr Hundstorfer, I should like to remind you that, under the leadership of the Socialists in the 1990s, it was precisely the governments that were responsible, also due to the fall of the Iron Curtain, for the fact that over 800 000 people are moving to Austria. They have opened the locks in the years up to the year 2000! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It was the small coalition from the year 2000, which – and this can be clearly read from the calculations in your house, Mr. Social Minister – has passed a citizenship law in 2005, which extended the residence period from four years to ten years. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] This has succeeded in reducing the number of citizenships from 35 400 in 2005 to 14 000 in 2007. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all!]] That means: 20 000 citizenships less in just two years – and that because of a law that the small coalition has brought about! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are facts, that's the truth! Get in touch with your own ministries if you don't believe these facts! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ was against it in 2005, by the way. And today you think of the SPÖ that our immigration policy was a false one, although we have put the lever in the right place by restricting immigration and stopping citizenship at a certain level. However, the level of citizenship in Austria is still too high. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As a former trade unionist, a former head of the ÖGB, I expect, Minister Hundstorfer, that you praise this small coalition, for it was this small coalition that saved the BAWAG that you have driven on the wall, saved the jobs and saved the BAWAG from ruin! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, once again one sees, how many people suppress the perceptions, the realities crowd away. [[Abg. Riepl: Do you really think so?]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... Expulsion of Reality!]] I am very grateful for Today, they have addressed the fight against unemployment and poverty in this country – even though the whole thing feels that a small municipal election campaign “Strache versus dog torfer” has come out of it. The next mayor of Vienna Hundstorfer has already got a taste for what will be expected in the future at the municipal council in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We will know this to prevent! Perhaps Vice-Chairman!]] Ladies and gentlemen, something has already puzzled me a little, namely that Mr Strache applauds when Mr Pröll says: Get out of here for the hacker's board! [[Abg. I don't think you're right. This is the untruth! That is where we are making a real correction!]] This has already irritated me a little because the hackler scheme is a measure that we have put into effect because one is clear: 45 years of contributions must be enough for those who work honestly and in old age can no longer do the work you can expect from a man of old age! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] That's why I can't understand. Of course, we continue to believe that the hackler regime should be maintained, because people must also be able to rely on something, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I now come to talk about unemployment and the development of unemployment in our country. Of course, unemployment is also partly due to the economic crisis and to the international banking and financial crisis. No question at all! This not only affects Austria, it affects the whole of the European Union. But, honestly, if we really want to fight unemployment, we have to ask ourselves the question: Where does unemployment actually begin? What is the cause of the ever-increasing retention of society in our country? [[Abg. Kickl: Where political institutions do not pay their bills and endanger workers!]] It starts with education, it starts in school. What kind of picture of the world of work does the young people in our country get when they see as students that teachers are not even willing to work two hours more a week, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the picture we give to young people on their way of life! – That is why we are in favour of upholding the principle of performance in our country, that we need to do more to ensure that performance is again worthwhile in our country. This has been completely wrong in the course of the tax system in recent years, as can be read in the newspaper today: A family that earns €950 a month has at the end of the month as much for the family as a family that earns €3 800. This is a disastrous error in the tax system, ladies and gentlemen. It's got to be clear to everyone! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If we continue this course, we drive the Republic to the wall – because performance is no longer worth it because work is no longer worth it! This is also the case with the completely wrong measure of minimum security. The minimum level of protection, ladies and gentlemen, is the wrong path to performance. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you also find that 850 € is too much?- Oh, my God!]] The minimum security, ladies and gentlemen, does not promote work, but promotes that people should be left out. The requirement of the ÖGB is therefore a false one if it is required that the minimum guarantee amount to € 855 per month, especially since you know that a tank station or a food vendor in Austria receives €860 per month net. This is an affront to all those who want to work, ladies and gentlemen. And on the other hand, let us resist! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We need effective and social security. Only one job, only work also ensures social prosperity, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e5475	To an actual correction, Mr. Klubobmann... [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's usually not possible, that's television time!]] No, it's not agreed for television time. Mr Klubobmann has the floor to make an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e5510	Mr. Klubobmann Bucher falsely claimed that I had claped at yesterday's event at the Ministry of Finance Minister Josef Pröll at the Ministry of Finance, when he said he wanted to abolish the hacker scheme. [[Abg. Bucher: You called Bravo!]] I'm correcting: At the beginning, before the Vice-Chancellor's speech, I politely lamented when, there too, my colleague, Kogler, was sitting there at the beginning of the speech, as part of the greeting. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Painful!]] [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] During all the rest of the speech, I did not complain once again, just as Mr Kogler, who did not complain again. So much for the truth, Mr. Bucher. You should have come, then you could have taken a picture of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e5576	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e5599	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and in front of the TV screens, but especially at the audience gallery! I particularly welcome the remaining pupils of the Bundesgymnasium Feldkirch, also for the Member Harald Walser, who is not seen there, who comes from this gymnasium. If you have not been “sold out” yet, I hope that you will manage to be present at this speech, too, because it is an important issue. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to say just a few words and speak of poverty and unemployment, so as to be able to act as a social home party – that alone is not enough! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Stay with the truth!]] I'm interested in: Who should pay for the crisis? Who do the parties want to pay for the crisis that has now occurred and which causes infinite suffering in the form of income reduction, job losses, job losses? – That’s the exciting question. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Stay with the truth!]] But before I come to this exciting question, I have another question. In his speech, Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer claimed or found that he was not swimming on the noodle soup. [[Abg. Wenninger: Whatever's true!]] – Now one can be divided about whether he is actually not swimming or yet on the noodle soup, I have at least asked myself the question: [[Abg. Wenninger: But now you are...!]] How does this look in sign language? If I now ask the question or repeat the claim, then only because I can learn something or you can learn something about the sign language, in which we have already received some lessons. That's why I'm just saying what I wanted to ask, but I can't ask, but I can only say: Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer is not swimming on the noodle soup! Thank you. [[While the speaker slowly utters the sentence, he turns to the sign interpreter to follow her translation.]] [[General cheerfulness and condolences with greens and SPÖ.]] You've received a lesson. And now back to the real question: Who are the political parties responsible for the crisis? What response have the political parties here in the House given to the crisis and its impact on people? What have I heard from the FPÖ in their urgent request or before? – The foreigners are the problem! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Stay with the truth!]] [[Abg. Strache: That's not right what you claim! Stay with the truth!]] If we make two social security funds, one for nationals and one for foreigners, then we have solved a significant problem! So the presentation of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Stay with the truth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein:... actual correction!]] You already learned something about it from the FPÖ: The EU members are now also the same among you as nationals of the European Union, also the EEA members and also the third-country associated countries. There are about 200 000 people left for your own foreigners' fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And do you know who is the largest group of these 200,000 people? – This is interesting: The Serbs and Serbs, which Mr. Partyobmann Strache otherwise tries to always missionary and court with the Cross! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Deputies Strache and Dr. Graf: Stay with the truth! Stay with the truth!]] – That's obvious. Your concept: The Serbs and Serbs are to pay, but not to seek a common solution. That's your concept! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Then I heard from the FPÖ the following: Let's make social security easier for families or people with children! – Now I really ask you very seriously: What will help a single woman with three, or do we say, to make it even more drastic, with five children if the company that employs their former partner receives tax reliefs or tax reliefs? What's the matter with her? – Nothing she has of it! And now you may still think of the case that sometimes exists, Mr. Partyobmann Strache: that the child father – it could also be a child mother, at least the one who left the family – pays no or only little support, but he has put five children in the world. And that is why the company that employs it should receive relief from social contributions? – The woman with the five children has no chance at all of getting a job, you know it! [[Abg. You! You!]] [[Abg. She's supposed to be a job...! You didn't understand!]] [[Abg. Strache: You didn't understand!]] [[Abg. Strache: You didn't understand: She should get job security!]] They say that families and households with several children should receive tax reliefs, and the man, the partner, the ex-partner, who has put five children in the world. [[Abg. Strache: She is supposed to have job security as a mother!]] This is your concept: That the company that employs him – not even he himself, but the company that employs him! – to obtain relief? This is grotesque, Mr Strache. That's grotesk! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: She is supposed to have job security as a mother! You didn't understand anything!]] Thirdly, you speak – even today again, in the request or in your speech – of the following: That's what it says on the one hand – that's what you said – family work, that's a valuable work that is being punished at the moment; and then I read your request through, and that's what it says about immigration: The immigrants who “have a high proportion of unproductive family members” – “unproductive family members”! That is exactly what the woman and the children who, if they are domestics, are raised up by you, so to speak, if they are foreigners, have a migrant background, then they are described by you as “unproductive family members”. [[Abg. Street: If they are citizens!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do you have anything to give?]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you have anything to give? If they are citizens!]] – This is obviously the attitude, the attitude behind you. This, Mr Strache, is pure racism! They want to create an apartheid system in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Citizenship, not of origin!]] Thank God no one else. This really gives you a unique feature: If it's a foreign mother or woman, you'll try to hate it very specifically, and the domestic mother or woman will want to raise you to a pod, so to speak. [[Abg. Strache: Not the origin, citizenship is important!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] But now I would also like to try to address another question to the EIA or the government parties. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is true: Mr Pröll yesterday addressed an important issue as regards the long-term insured pension, but he referred to it in a form in which, in my view, what he proposes as a solution is not acceptable – and that is what I say as one of those who called the long-term insured pension, or falsely also “hackler pension”, has always criticised, among other things, because they are making worse the actual heavy workers who are supposed to receive a heavy-worker pension but who do not receive it. No question, this regulation is not the yellow of the egg, but you are responsible for it, or the FPÖ of the time. That's not our idea; we have quite different ideas! But let's also talk about the following: These are people who have worked for 45 years; someone in this house seems to think that they should work for half a year or a year now, just before they reach this pension. They know – seriously and without polemics – what effects this would have on the labour market. Who would suffer? – The operation would probably be if the persons who have worked longer were to continue to employ these persons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Who won't get a job? - The boys! The boys would be the main offenders if we were to really do the same thing as you suggest. I am giving you this along the way for further debate, for one thing is clear: The long-term insurance scheme, which you are right to do, will have to end, but it will have to be a transitional scheme. It will also have to expire because it is not gender-friendly and we will eventually have a uniform retirement age from 2018/2019. But in the interests of the young, one should not use this question for cheap polemics and the disunity of boys and old people, because the main people, I would like to tell you at any time, and I can also predict this, are the young people for whom it would be even more difficult for them to work than now, which should already be the subject of the debate, because there is a real need for follow-up. Something has to be done for the boys! We have a generation that has often lived more of precarious jobs for years now, from internships that are not paid or badly. Something should be done there! Finally, Mr Bucher, because you have been so ‘missing’ the minimum guarantee and saying that we do not need it. – This has honestly shaken me, because the Federal Republic of Carinthia is now also one that carries the minimum guarantee and says: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] We have a better regulation, with us it is higher! [[Abg. Booker: Yes, exactly!]] And now you're saying: We don't want this because it's too high. [[Abg. Bucher: That's where you misunderstand me!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] – That can't be it, Mr. Bucher! I'm telling you and everyone else: That's not how it is! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] We will therefore also make appropriate proposals to that effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6004	Next speaker: Ms Marek, Secretary of State. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes as she wished. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6026	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the board of directors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Strache, you have spoken to the families several times. You said at the beginning of your speech that children are the future. – I agree with you, but that is the only thing I agree with. [[Abg. Kickl: Thank God we are not dependent on it!]] You said children are financially punished, you said children, families are not worth anything to us. – I would simply like to reverse this picture, which is definitely wrong, because we have turned on many, many screws and also set measures here. You say you want to facilitate the return for parents, you also want to guarantee a corresponding job security. – With the right to parental leave, we have a very, very good instrument, which is a living reality through which there is job security for parents with the necessary flexibility. Family members care for relatives in 80 percent of the cases, you have said. – That is why we have taken important steps here in terms of pension insurance contributions. I think you should see that too; but it does not help, of course, if you always close your eyes and only see what you want to see. On the one hand, they demand tax reductions and also demand that employers no longer pay contributions to the family tax compensation fund for parents, but at the same time call for significant increases in benefits at all levels. - It can't go together! That is already contradictory: We cannot increase benefits more and more, and we can significantly reduce revenue. [[Abg. Street: When it comes to citizens, it is!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Retranslations!]] We have acted in a wide variety of places: We have tied a large family tax package of more than €500 million, which, according to the principle of “The more children, the less taxes” the families have been taxed – a third of transfers alone here. From Transfers: We are excellently positioned, also in the international comparison! I do not find comparisons indecent, but they are, quite the contrary, a certain location determination: Where do we even stand? – We stand excellent internationally, only in terms of transfers. And you will agree to me when we say transfers are massively poverty-avoiding. 700 million € more since 2002, that is quite, a lot of money for the children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The Free Kindergarten was addressed, which, by the way, has already had an impact on inflation for the first time in September: With regard to the Free Kindergarten You voted against the inclusion of children with migration backgrounds, but at the same time you say, Mr Klubobmann, that we should do more for integration measures – that is, a contradiction in itself. [[Abg. Strache: Against the obligation, and only for citizens free!]] Childcare allowance: 1 billion € per year for families. Here, too, a massively poor... [[Abg. Strache: The mandatory German preschool would have been necessary, but they have unfortunately rejected you!]] – I have listened to you, listen to me, Mr Klubobmann! Thanks a lot. [[Abg. Strache: If you say the untruth, I need to correct you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The childcare allowance, which is decoupled from work, is massively devoid of poverty – this was a joint initiative from us, we should not forget – and for the pension contributions for mothers, about €1.2 billion are spent each year. If this is not socially just family policy, politics for our families, I don't know either! Here is Austria really a show country!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6149	Now comes Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the I'll set the clock up to 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6170	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy was the last issue: I would also like to say that in the country days countless requests were made by liberal mandaters – I can still remember very well! – but to allow a free kindergarten. These applications were always rejected by SPÖ and ÖVP and vehemently. [[Abg. Bitch: Ten years! Ten years!]] – Rejected, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now there is the Free Kindergarten, but it is a mandatory kindergarten, and here we think it must be the priority of freedom of choice: The parents must be able to decide whether to give the child to the kindergarten or not, because the parents will know best how to... – Please? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] I understand you very badly. Please? – Yes, but the kindergarten cannot solve the problem! [[Abg. Hagen: You're always saying that foreigners can't be German!]] The kindergarten cannot solve the problem. It is not possible to transfer these problems to kindergarten teachers, ladies and gentlemen. Here you simply have to enable German courses, which is the most important! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... all these 3-year-old German lessons...!]] [[Abg. Oillinger:... does 3-year-old teach?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Oellinger, I know that you are so excited today because of the Committee of Inquiry and because you have been told that you have said the untruth, but, Mr Oellinger, I ask you to stay on the matter and to take note of the fact that there are other opinions in democracy and therefore you do not necessarily get to the head and spread his opinion with foam in front of the mouth here at the speaker's desk. That's not necessary at all! You have an opinion, I have an opinion – let's just accept it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was also worth noting that the mood was very exciting, especially on the sides of the SPÖ. I would like to tell you one thing, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen – I have already attracted the displeasure of the ÖVP, because I have said that I am an honest redr rather than a wrong blacker. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] I say to you: I have the impression that it would have made casting builders better! I have the impression that you don't notice what's happening: You're being hugged to death, ladies and gentlemen! You do not want the Commissioner of the EU, you have left the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Finance – you have taken everything! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You have a crisis meeting; on the same day, the ÖVP is making an event with a chancellor's speech – it was a chancellor's speech, ladies and gentlemen – and you can enjoy it all. It is not surprising, ladies and gentlemen, if the members run away from you in crowds, and I hear from our federal office that it is difficult to defend the application for membership. – We are glad! We're glad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is that we have a very unstable social situation and that it must be one of the tasks of an opposition party to support the government parties at this difficult time, ladies and gentlemen, and to make proposals. I am therefore particularly concerned when the impression is given here: We, the two government parties, have recognized the problem, but the evil opposition does not support us. – The fact is, one has seen yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that there is a long list of opposition requests – not only from the FPÖ; the Greens, the BZÖ, all bring in ideas and applications – and what comes from the government parties? [[Abg. Grosz: Delayed!]] [[Abg. Blow: Rejection!]] – Delayed, postponed, postponed, postponed, postponed, rejected, postponed, postponed. - That's all you're doing. They do not take note that at a time of crisis, a national epaulment is necessary in which all parties must jointly try to overcome this crisis. Do not take note of this and refuse to do so! You refuse to make a value adjustment in the care money! – I know, Minister of State, that you said, under black/blue, black/orange was raised only once; The fact is, however, that due to the loss of inflation, the care money has never been worth as little as it is now, and the fact is that the poverty report has that people with disabilities and need for care are particularly affected by poverty and that, if we want to make legal care possible, we do not have to increase this care allowance, but we only have to pay for inflation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And, of course, there is not the understanding of those concerned when you learn that banks have been supported with very, very high amounts – this is about billions! – and the amounts you need to increase the care allowance are not there. [[Abg. Strache: But the companies have been abandoned!]] They always say the economy was supported. – That’s not true! The banks were supported, and the banks did not pass this money on, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. That's right!]] Go to a bank once and try to borrow a loan if you need an apartment! Go as a company and try to get an interim financing! – I wish you a lot of success, which is almost impossible. What we are now experiencing in Austria – I am returning to the field of care – is the fact that, despite an initial training offensive, many people from the former Eastern Bloc countries are active here – thank God – as nurses because there are too few Austrians who are willing or able to work in this area. But I would like to take the following into account: In these countries – in Romania, in Hungary – wage levels are rising! It will be the case in the near future that these persons will no longer be willing to carry out these activities for us in Austria. In other words, we must be very courageous about starting a training campaign here and ensuring that these professions are properly paid, ladies and gentlemen. A proper payment: That's what we need! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And it is true that if we implement a minimum guarantee, which – I don't know – is to bring € 850 a month for each individual, we must already consider what is worth our work. I've heard from the SPÖ series: Well, then keep the entrepreneurs paying more! . Well, we have debated a minimum wage law in the Committee. You said we don't need that. They didn't want to decide. But I am already in favour of the fact that, if there is a fundamental minimum security, there must be a difference, a clear difference between the level of this basic security and what an Austrian gets when he works 40 hours a week, ladies and gentlemen. That's necessary. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] What happens here is a massive attack on the middle class. How is Mr. Max Mandelmann – or John Smith, as he is called on the island – doing today in Austria? [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the past, the middle class was the promise of the state to the people that it is worth the achievement that one can really create the social rise even if one is willing to perform a service. That's not the case anymore. Today, the middle class will be cut to the highest level, ladies and gentlemen. It is not worth doing here, and this is very dangerous and very brilliant for the state, because then the revenue is missing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is a real need to think about how to support this middle class, and a measure of this is a support for young people. That is why I can now put forward the proposal that my colleague Kickl mentioned earlier. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a measure for Austria's youth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second measure, which I have referred to earlier, concerns the rate of inflation in the case of care payments. I also make a request and I am excited to see how you decide. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Courts and other Members on inflation adjustment of the care allowance The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary steps as soon as possible to adjust the care allowance in such a way that it corresponds to the value of inflation adjusted at its introduction in 1993. In the future, an annual index adjustment of the care allowance will also be ensured.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: The question has already been raised as to how to deal with the employment of asylum seekers. Ladies and gentlemen, those who are really persecuted must be protected in Austria. That's quite clear. Whoever commits asylum abuse, who acts as an asylum seekers with drugs, has not deserved this protection and has to leave our home country. It is a wrong way to say that I am now taking asylum seekers into the labour market. Today, in Austria, we have a situation where an asylum seekers, if they are being punished and detained, will even receive unemployment benefits after this stay in prison. That's the wrong way! We must ensure that asylum procedures are completed quickly and are concluded fairly, and we must ensure that those who abuse the system must also leave the country at the expense of those who really need protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6444	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6545	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6566	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr Klubobmann Strache made two demands in his remarks. The one claim was an education allowance for parents, the second claim was that parents should simply be preferred at the workplace by reducing wage costs. This has already been the subject of both the Secretary of State and some other previous speakers. A reduction in additional labour costs, ladies and gentlemen, does not at all affect the individual worker, and it also means, of course, that if there is no counter-financing, there is no funds in social security or in the family compensation fund. And the second demand, the education allowance for young parents: Just as I've met the FPÖ so far, I think the title "mother money" would fit better. In principle, very valued ladies and gentlemen: In order to really achieve that the birth rate is rising in Austria, measures are much more sensible in the direction that allow for a better reconciliation of work and family for fathers and mothers. And for this to happen, there is a need for family-wide facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look a little beyond our borders – for example, for France or in the Scandinavian countries – you will see that where there are family-friendly institutions, the birth rate also increases, because young women simply want to reconcile work and family and do not want to choose either of them. This federal government has taken the right steps in the right direction. I should like to remind you that the introduction of a free kindergarten year is quite, very important, as is the mandatory kindergarten year before the start of the school. And this, Mr Hofer, we also see as a very, very important educational institution, as a qualification measure for young children. We do not see kindergartens as a place of storage, but because of the high qualifications of the employees there as a whole, very important educational institution for our children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are good measures to improve the compatibility of work and family for fathers and mothers. Unfortunately, it is only to be noted that you, the FPÖ, did not agree and voted against these measures. Likewise, an excellent measure is the improvement of childcare allowance, for example the possibility of the income-dependent variant. I would like to thank Mrs Marek and also Mrs Heinisch-Hosek for this. This is really a sensible and good measure. This will also result in more fathers taking on family obligations. Unfortunately, you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, were in the Committee against this measure. [[Abg. New builder: Thank God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Thank God!]] We have carried out the removal of unemployment insurance contributions for income below €1 350. Women benefit mainly from this. – You were against it! Another very important point that moves families is the question of care. And here in all clarity: There have been the most extensive improvements in the care system since the introduction of the care allowance. We have made a significant average increase of about 5 per cent of the care allowance, and we have above all carried out a financial support for the 24-hour care at home. – You were against it again! [[Abg. Kickl: We had a better proposal!]] And what is absolutely crucial is that we have also improved insurance in the direction of self-insurance in social security by the state from the third level of care for those members who perform the care. This is an important, meaningful, especially family policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few comments on health. We have carried out a cover at the recipe fee with 2 percent of the net income. More than 400,000 people benefit from this. – You were against it! Education policy: We believe that education must be accessible to all. Smaller classes, New middle school, kindergarten I said already. – The FPÖ was against it! Ladies and gentlemen, it is too little to put up with the coat of social policy. [[Abg. Kickl: That's right! That's really too little!]] Then, if the Federal Government adopts good measures, it might also be useful to vote in favour. It is not enough to be opposed, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6680	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6703	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We live in Austria, a state with very high social responsibility and social competence. We have – many statistics – the best health system in the world and one of the highest social security systems worldwide. 30 percent of GDP, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, that is about €90 billion, are spent on social security, transfers and social benefits. There we are absolutely in the leading field. And it is actually not very relevant, ladies and gentlemen, whether the FPÖ has been involved in the government in recent years or the SPÖ, it has developed very positively in recent decades our social and health system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And it is necessary to say this too. This needs to be clearly identified, particularly after the contributions of the FPÖ. We live in a social country, and we should recognise that together. Of course, a social system must be constantly developed. Especially in economically very difficult times, one must keep in mind the labour market and social security, and this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, has also observed and carried out this: Economic and Social Package I and II, Labour Market Package I and II. The figures and data show that the investments carried out during this most serious economic and financial crisis were also correct and necessary. We have the lowest rate of unemployment in Europe and, as a result, the second lowest unemployment rate behind the Netherlands. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The economic packages, ladies and gentlemen, and the labour market packages have secured 100 000 jobs, which has already been mentioned by the Federal Minister, and this confirms the effectiveness of these measures. The training guarantee – especially because the youth was also addressed – also shows its positive effect. We have more apprentices than in 2007. This should be mentioned in the context of such a debate, because it is not natural for these packages to show their effect. We have taken a lot of money into our hands in recent months, and those who travel with people know that this is being discussed daily: How can we repay this money, money that we have borrowed, and I think we have to repay it? Now, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, we are setting up demands, a sluggish of demands that would cause billions of extra costs, without saying how they are covered financially, that is unscrupulous, especially in times like this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In financial and economic policy, we must also think of the generations to come and, above all, of our youth. What's this about? Finally, from my point of view, I should like to add three points, which I believe we should focus on now and also in the future. First and foremost, people are concerned with the workplace; it is about the job. Work means income, work also means hope, unemployment is hopelessness, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we must continue to do everything we can to support people in terms of the labour market. [[Abg. Neubauer: And what are you doing for the farmers? Ask the dairy farmers once!]] The second point is to develop the health and social system and also to adapt time – we cannot leave everything we have been doing for decades – and to ensure high quality. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, in the health and social system performance orientation. Performance must pay off! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: And what are you doing for the dairy farmers?]] And this also applies to our pension systems. If someone pays for a long time, that should also be taken into account. This also applies to the long-term long-term insured scheme. [[Abg. Neubauer: What about the dairy farmers?]] The third point, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to reduce debts in order not to overreact to the young people in this Republic. This was the case yesterday with the Minister of Finance and put it to the point. He has proved that he is the one responsible in this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6823	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6844	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Wöginger, I understand that you are defending and saying one thing or another, compared to the European Union, with the countries of the European Union, Austria is still very good about the unemployment rate and the employment rate – this was the case yesterday by Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – but that is quite too little for me, because of which a unemployed person in Austria has nothing to do with it. The fact is that we have reached a peak with 300,000 unemployed – 68 000 are in addition to training – and next year it will be around 400 000. Of course it's bad. There is an increase of 34 percent in the age group between 20 and 24. But, of course, the situation of older workers is not satisfactory. There is also an increase of 25 percent last year. And the employment rate for 55-64-year-olds is hardly lower in any other European country within the EU than with us. That's where it really has to be put. We are discussing different models, but so far no one has been able to tell me or present a concept, especially this federal government, how to keep the older ones in employment longer. There's no concept, there's no program. Interestingly, Federal Minister, it is also in the ÖGB companies that the elderly are being pushed out. And that's exactly where you have to counter it. [[Abg. Shopf: Examples! Give examples!]] Examples? Examples are enough. At the Austrian Bundesbahn as well. People go to bed earlier, and on the other hand, it says: The Austrians go to retirement too early, we need to change the hacker scheme! This is the wrong approach, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Despite harmonisation, we have the most diverse pension systems in Austria. [[Abg. Bucher: What about the sick days at the Austrian Federal Railways?]] The sick days at the Austrian Federal Railway are also an example. There it goes even so far that you say: Actually, I still have a few sick days. Where is there such a thing? [[Call at BZÖ: That's incredible!]] That's how it's spoken. This is crazy, Mr Haberzettl! Do you know what the cancer damage at the Austrian Bundesbahn is? – That it is run by the union! That's the cancer damage. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This is not a good thing, because an employee's representative is supposed to be an employee's representative and to do so in order. Only: Just as it is being handled right now, that is not the case! Proposals are now being made, for example working time models, longer execution. The calculations must be regulated differently by sector. I have also signed several things about business agreements in the past, how to do this. It's a fore and a resistance, only one thing, of course, can't be: that you put a salary for the overtime, for which extra-performance is included, into a cash register, where you don't know how much is being cut there, as you, colleague Ollinger, said yesterday. It is just like that in the case of pension funds, and it would be similar to an overtime account in which the individual is taken away the responsibility for his additional benefits, as requested by ÖAAB-Obmann and current Foreign Minister Spindelegger. He meant that the salary for the overtime, for which supplements are simply put into a cash register, the employee does not get it at all, and then he can sometimes go in time in the event of a low order situation. Although they pay unemployment insurance – the service provider and the employee – workers should consume time for unemployment instead of getting unemployment support! What about unemployment insurance, ladies and gentlemen? These are unforgettable proposals, that is simply not possible! What about the all-inclusive work contracts, what about the employment contracts, which include a number of overtimes? How is this handled there? Unforgettable, ladies and gentlemen, just like the entire government concept! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The fact is that low wages are the main cause of poverty in Austria, and that is, of course, the problem we have. On the one hand, we have too low wages, and the difference between a need-oriented minimum guarantee and a minimum wage – because everywhere we do not have collective agreements; I have nothing against regulating collective agreements at another level, and that must be the same – must be 30 percent. We should not review the minimum guarantee down, but the minimum wages upwards. The difference must be there so that there is a certain incentive to also take up a job, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] If you go here now and say the hacker rule is to blame that so many people go in early retirement, I have to ask you: How can anyone who retires at 60 years of age be blamed if the average age of access is 57, 58 years? The system is to blame, for example, those who were admitted to the Austrian Bundesbahn before 1996 to retire at the age of 52 to 56. These are individual pension schemes that allow it to be done before the 60. To go to retirement age, and they must be attacked, but not with the hackers, please. The so-called hackers are those people who have 45 years of contributions, who have made a career with teaching, who have continued their education in the second course of education and who have probably also retired as employees or officials. But these are contribution times, not insurance periods. This should also be written by all the media behind the ears, because in the newspapers there is always insurance time and not postage. – Thank you for the attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6940	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e6962	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this debate is the financial, economic and labour market crisis which we urgently need to tackle. There are, of course, different ways of approaching this task. There is one and the other way, but it is clear that this is the main question: Who is ultimately paying for this crisis? So let's look at that. On the one hand, there are the wealthy, the managers of the large banks and the large companies. Many of them have become more rich and rich in recent years, some have also benefited from responsible speculation transactions that have brought the others to their savings and private pension provision. It is also the rich who have benefited from the fact that wealth in Austria continues to be massively favoured by tax. If we keep looking: Is it the rich, the managers who are now to pay for this crisis? - It doesn't look like that. A limitation of manager salaries is not in sight, and the bonuses are already paid out again at unscrupulous level. If we look at what it looks like to tax the rich, then Finance Minister Pröll tells us: No, it's not coming! So we can summarize the question of who is paying for this crisis: The rich are certainly not because of the policy of this government, the ÖVP is ensuring! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we Greens certainly do not accept this! We find it urgent at the time, it is precisely now time to tax assets, great assets, foundations at last. The rich must make a more just contribution! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we keep looking: Who really pays for it in this crisis? – This is indisputable for all workers in this country! Many of them are in short work. [[Abg. Neubauer: Are you rich?]] I don't, no. – Thousands fear their job. [[Abg. Kickl: Not? Not with the salary? That's interesting!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] They fear for their job, and it has greatly increased the uncertainty in life. They see themselves threatened in their prosperity. Minister Hundstorfer analysed: The labour market problems are mainly male, they are located in the industrial sector. Accordingly, his actions are also. We invest a lot of money in short-time work and thus invest in an automotive industry whose expiry date we already know today. That's the wrong way! [[Abg. Krainer:... Due date!]] The government clings to yesterday's jobs, instead of finally investing in tomorrow's jobs. If we want to take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity, we need to change. We need to change through massive investments in the eco-economics sector. [[Abg. Head: And risk existing jobs!]] These are tomorrow's jobs! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Electric cars are also...!]] But let's keep looking: Who else pays for it? – These are the young people in our country. We have had massive problems with youth unemployment in recent years, but now the figures are even more worrying. Young people simply need perspectives, they need the opportunity to build up an independent life. It doesn't look good! We can't save there, we can't let anything go untry there. We need a massive reform and also investment in our education system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But we also need a reform of the vocational training system. The dual training in Austria is largely no longer working. It is collapsing and is maintained only by these over-company courses. We need a reform here. And what we still need is: We need job perspectives for professional beginners. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you a life as a rental worker, as a temporary employee, as a sham self-employed person, as a permanent practitioner is not desirable for young people! Yesterday at the Green Kindergarten Summit, I heard that young kindergarten teachers in Tyrol only receive temporary contracts every year. In other words, every year in July they become unemployed. You'll wait in the summer: If I get a job, don't I get one? And they don't know where this job will be again. This is not to be expected of young people in the long run! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I ask you to: Get better quality in the working conditions of young people! And: I also call on you to finally take responsibility for all those people who cannot do this themselves at the moment. Finally, make sure that no one in Austria needs to live in poverty! That can't be it, your giraffe at minimum security. Are you aware that you're playing with fates here? – It doesn’t matter if I grow up as a child in a family where I can’t get music lessons where I can’t learn to drive snowboard where I can’t bring a friend home because it’s too cold at home. [[Abg. Kickl: You're quite far from reality!]] This plays a role for the whole of life. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... everything done!]] You juggle with fates when you mess with the minimum security. Stop it at last! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ensure a minimum security that protects against poverty! That might then really be a happening and a good project Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7123	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7144	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Since I am obviously the only one who has a heart for the seniors of Austria – because the topic of pension/pensionists has not yet been mentioned in any speech – I allow myself to make two requests. The first is: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template providing for a 2010 pension adjustment according to the price index for pensioners’ budgets, but at least by 1.9 percent.” I urge you to accept this, as I believe, important request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Also in the second request, I appeal to you, namely to your conscience, because it cannot be that every year it is auctioned like on a bazaar to give deserved people their traditional right. That is why my request is: ‘The Federal Government is invited to provide for compensation without delay and without red tape for all persons whose pensions are below the compensatory allowance rate and who are not entitled to a compensation allowance and are therefore disadvantaged in a constitutional way under the 2008 pension adjustment.’ [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is the result of a complaint we have reached for these people in the country – they deserve it, these 500 000 people! – due to a false election promise made by the then Chancellor Gusenbauer and which also suffered from the principle of trust. Mr Kopf, you said that the politicians must look after what they promise in the future. Yes, on the basis of the court ruling, we have also ruled in writing that Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer promised voters something that he did not then keep. You almost want to say: A sluggish syndrome of the SPÖ, one falls right away after the election! That is what we are used to, but now we have a court ruling which refers to the fact that such promises should not be made in the future, because otherwise, of course, one would have a possibility of action. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Do not be made!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you have delivered us here today so great about what you are complaining about, what we have not been supposed to have done in the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I would remind you, Minister of State, Mr Hundstorfer: You owe it to the government back then that you sit here at all. For if the then Federal Government had not given a state security guarantee for the ÖGB, it would have gone bankrupt and then you would not have had the basis for your present office at all! That's the scandal today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They sit here and make accusations, but even, on the noodle soup, the BAWAG signed and thus almost had to answer the bankruptcy of BAWAG. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the true scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the private sector such a person is chased away with a wet squat, but you become Federal Minister of the Republic! This is really a moral image of the SPÖ that you have to answer here, and you need to clarify this to voters. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that the low level of SPÖ is already reached: It will go even deeper, and we will take care of it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you said in the morning: The hacker scheme will be abolished. [[Abg. Grandruck: It was at twelve!]] Of course, we will work to ensure that it is declared permanence. We have already tabled a number of proposals, and therefore, Mr Bucher, it is simply unthinkable to go here and to accuse the clubman of the fact that he would have complained about such a proposal. [[Abg. Grosz: He applauded, of course!]] We from FPÖ as a social home party will ensure that it is socially fair again in our country in the future. No playouts of the generations of young and old, for which we stand free! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We agree that there are righteous pensions, which are not only just fair, but also a worthy outcome and also a decent life, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Who has introduced the hacker scheme?]] And we also fight against the greatly increased poverty of old age. Mr Federal Minister, if you say we can't read statistics, then read your own brochure yourself. This brochure states that over 300,000 people in that country are now unemployed. That is 70 000 more than in the previous year. I ask you: What did you do about it? – You don’t do anything, you don’t do anything at all! You say you visit the AMS on every occasion, but I think you didn't seem to have talked to the people at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They say we didn't read the statistics – of course we read them! And we know that without the granting of state social assistance, 45 percent of the Austrian population would be at risk of poverty. Mr. Federal Minister, you are required to do something at last! That would be my appeal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7319	The two applications submitted are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7444	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7465	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I'm actually a little surprised at who saved all the trade unions. The BZÖ has already said today that it has saved the union. [[Abg. Grosz: You certainly weren't!]] [[Further calls.]] The FPÖ said it saved the union. I'll tell you one thing: Do you know who, after the known crime, saved the union? – Those trade union members, those works councils, those colleagues who have also held the fidelity in this difficult time of the organization, and not those who have somehow opened up a spasm or something else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These were the ones that saved the union. They have not made any contribution at all! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Mr Petzner also gives us the honour and is not in the solarium today. Welcome – excellent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a pressing question on the labour market and poverty. I believe that if one has not only listened to prepared speeches, but has listened to Minister Hundstorfer, it has been recognized that he and the Austrian Federal Government are well aware of the problems that exist in connection with employment, with the labour market and with poverty in that country. It has also been clearly heard that a large number of activities have already been set up to do something about this fact and to improve the situation here. In fact, I would have expected from this urgency of the Freedom Party that there are some creative proposals, what we can do in addition, and that we will discuss and discuss them objectively. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, I have so far heard in the debate that you remain in the usual water: Young people find no work – they are the asylum seekers. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Older workers are forced out of the labour market – the foreigners are responsible. [[Abg. Strache: The government is guilty, it is not the people's fault!]] [[Abg. You! The government!]] Men are particularly at risk of becoming unemployed – they are responsible for the asylum laws. [[Abg. Strache: Because you make the political framework!]] [[Abg. Strache: It's the politicians' fault!]] Women become unemployed – they are the asylum seekers. [[Abg. That's right, politician!]] The unemployed are at risk of poverty – the foreigners are responsible. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's what you're trying to get from FPÖ. [[Abg. Strache: You as a politician are to blame!]] Mr Strache, this is a smooth issue that you are doing here! That's a mistake! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] They mix topics that have nothing to do with each other. They make connections where there are no links. [[Abg. Strache: You as politicians are to blame, not the people! Tell me the truth!]] They look for scapegoats instead of solutions, and you raise employees against each other. That's not the way! You don't offer any solutions, and that's the wrong way! This is the way of separation and arousing, we do not go with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about is the fight against unemployment and social security for the unemployed. The Minister of Social Affairs has presented a number of steps which have already been taken, and has provided for further activities. We have decided on economic packages. We have implemented the tax reform. [[Call the FPÖ:Don't help anything!]] We have chained the labour market packages I and II. We have extended the short work to 24 months and improved education. Now, if some of you go out here and say you shouldn't have invested in the short work, I'll say one thing: In short, 60,000 people have not become unemployed and 60,000 have remained in employment! You can now discuss whether you could have done something better, but that is a fact that has succeeded in preventing the unemployment of 60,000 people. That makes the difference, that is politics with a social democratic manuscript, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Austrian Federal Government has promised to give a corresponding training guarantee to all young people looking for an apprenticeship. In fact, we do not need a request with which we call on the Federal Government to do so. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't hurt anything!]] The Federal Government has promised this and will keep it. The apprentices can rely on this to be done. We are the guarantee that this will actually be implemented. [[Abg. Kickl: You? Oh, you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, playing with the fate of the unemployed and playing people against each other, I personally consider the wrong path. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You wrote the speech a few days ago! Or today the wrong speech is taken out!]] I believe that people who are desperately looking for work must have the certainty that we are seriously doing everything we can to consider how we put up the money to finance the necessary measures that are still missing. I therefore expect in the future, too, that this is an important issue for high-strengthening debates on the future of Austria and that the minimum guarantee is not referred to as a social hammock. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7742	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7764	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On several occasions, the FPÖ addressed the issue of family, particularly by Mr Strache and also by Mr Ing. Hofer. I would just like to say that we have planned more than € 6.6 billion in total expenditure for family and youth in 2010. If Mr. Ing. Hofer says that the compulsory kindergarten year is, as it were, not in order and is an obligation that is rigid, it must be said that there is no obligation in all the federal states and that 94 percent of children in the preschool age are already visiting a kindergarten or an age-mixed care facility. [[Abg. Kickl: But why do you want to make this mandatory?]] Mandatory in so far as: In the fifth year of life, I think, this is more than just an educational necessity, it is also very important as a bridge to school. [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you want to tear children out of an intact family? Why does that have to be? Explain that!]] In addition, this is also a measure for a better compatibility of work and family. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that, on the part of the government parties, especially the ÖVP, with our vice-president and finance minister Josef Pröll, we know very well about the value of the family and also about the need to strengthen the families in their own responsibilities and to put in place measures and also create conditions for children to have a good future. Especially when it comes to poverty, I would like to point out once again the transfers, these retransmissions in the family sector, which have been repeatedly discussed today. Do good and talk about it! I would also like to introduce the 13th. Address family aid, an ÖVP initiative, with an additional €254 million being added. [[Call the SPÖ:Alone?]] As far as childcare benefits are concerned, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen from the Freedom Party, that last week a family committee took place. Who has not voted in favour of the necessary improvements for the middle class that brings in performance? That was the FPÖ! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Are worse!]] She did not agree with the child care allowance, please. Perhaps you can still think about it until the next plenary session, it would be desirable. Or you bring another urgent request that you consider in an urgent session how you might be concerned that you also give your consent to a positive measure. [[Abg. Grosz: Do they not know!]] However, I would also like to mention the increase in the family allowance for siblings and the increase in the income limit for the multiple child supplement, measures that support children's rich families! Since today a lot of attention is also being paid to care: Yes, this is a topic that will move us more than ever in the future, just as child care – from the youngest child to the compulsory school age. In 2009, we have to pay €120 million for the increase in the care allowance, which is also good and right, and it is not said that we have just decided improvements in the pension insurance of caregivers and the federal government takes over the contributions from the care level 3. That is, if you convert it, about €330 a month will be transferred to the pension fund. I think that's something if someone has the strength and the courage to take care of them at home. In this context, however, I would also like to address the economic packages and, ultimately, the minimum guarantee. There are now different opinions. Yes, we from the ÖVP stand for minimum security, just as it has now been negotiated – twelve times a year. All in all, I think, there is a lot of good for families in our country, and no transfer service is a performance that could be called “social hammocks”.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7862	Mrs Haubner's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e7884	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not one who needs to see union history clarified. I am not one who needs to justify why she voted yesterday in the speech of Mr Finanzminister, but I am one who stands for what was created in a government between 2000 and 2006. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These are achievements, ladies and gentlemen, who are not only tangible, but still keep them. I can only quote you a few, including you, Federal Minister: Introducing parental leave, measures to improve the family-friendly working environment, “handling new”, equality between workers and employees, disability billions, disability equalisation law, introduction of child care allowance – against which the SPÖ has so vehemently occurred, and thank God there is this childcare allowance to this day! .. Introduction of retirement-based child rearing periods, transitional periods on the labour market, which you, Mr. Federal Minister, have been negotiating by Herbert Haupt at the time and thank God to this day, long-term insurance scheme, the so-called hackler scheme, and in 2002 – that is to say, during this reign – family benefits were also increased, the fight against undeclared work was forced, and the citizenship law was strengthened. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] And so I could mention a lot of social benefits, labour market policy benefits, and therefore, Ladies and gentlemen, the BZÖ will not keep our eyes on the fact that about a million people in Austria are at risk of poverty, of which 90,000 children live in poverty and 250,000 are vulnerable to poverty. We have a dramatic situation, especially for those who have micro-pensions, for those who are single parents, for those who have families, but unfortunately there can be more and more those who work hard and get less and less due to precarious working conditions, so have no adequate remuneration, of this income only difficult or not at all. Unfortunately, God is so – and here we should not close our eyes – that not only unemployment is a poverty trap, but more and more low labour incomes. And we from BZÖ say: Whoever works is supposed to have more in the bag than someone who doesn't work. It is particularly important to us, especially in the area of minimum assurance, that there is a corresponding difference here. It must be a difference between unemployed income and labour income of at least 30 percent, because work must pay off. Work must pay off! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There must be an incentive for work, and I therefore also propose: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that even if someone is in retirement today and has been working for 45 years and has paid for 45 years in the system. In my opinion, this is not a privilege, it is not a “sacred cow”, but it is something that people have developed. [[OBJECTIVES]] And that must therefore not be abolished! A second example of performance, I believe, is also family performance. There are today about 70 000 women in Austria who have worked for the family, who have raised children and are poor today because they do not have their own pension or because they are ill-treated. And that is unworthy of a social state! We must act quickly. We have made the proposal with the so-called mother's pension, with the so-called mother's money, and I think we have to do a lot and do a lot in the area of minimum protection for these women. And a third thing that's very, very important to me: That having a family is also manageable and viable in the future. Many young people today think about creating a family – not only because work and family are not always well compatible, but also because the financial resources are missing. Therefore, from the BZÖ's point of view, it is very essential to have the transfer services available – and there is a large number of transfers! – on the one hand, researched and bundled – that’s right – but that you also adjust and increase these transfers accordingly. This is a command of the hour, just as the payment of these transfers needs to be ensured in the future. Money is taken out of the family compensation fund. This government has said it will reorganise it, but there is no concept to this end. This too is something that the families are not sure about, because we want these benefits to benefit the families in the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we from the BZÖ are particularly concerned that every person in Austria should have the opportunity to shape his own life, and he can only do so through work, through work that he can live on – whether he is working at home, in family work or in professional work. There must be no difference here. This basis that people have in order to self-determine their lives, we must also secure in the future. And we also need to exercise solidarity with those who are socially weak and that they receive benefits if they need it, but not all the benefits they want. In this sense, we also want to pursue social policy and continue to make our contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8039	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8127	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8149	Mr President. Dear Minister! Dear colleagues! We have heard a wide range of topics today, and I would like to address groups of people who are particularly important: One is the elderly, the other is people with disabilities. On the topic of poverty border: Disabled people, and we know that, are at risk of 74 percent poverty. Fortunately, in Austria we have a social state that can support these people so much that in the final effect only more than 20 percent are really affected by poverty. And that's really a good step. That is, the social measures have taken – we see that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, 20 percent of people with disabilities are affected by poverty, twice as many people, and even more are affected by disabled women. They have lower incomes, their working conditions look worse if there are jobs at all. I would like to give further examples of what poverty really means for these people. You know, there is employment therapy, that is, there are people who are in employment therapy, and what they earn is not a monthly salary, but what they get is a pocket money. That's about 50 € per month on average, and that's about 2 € per day. And that is the lowest form of poverty, these people are most affected. I would like to address another issue on the subject of basic security. There are already steps, we are going towards minimum security, but that is what I see as the first steps. But if we start from the basic security, which is €900, we are still away. This means that people with disabilities who are unable to live up to a job are not provided for, and whether it is possible for these people to have a full share in life, I question that once. We have a UN convention, and Austria has ratified this UN convention. And what has been implemented by that so far? Who decides now: Who gets a pocket money? Who decides: Who gets a job? Do families have to take care of it? It is about people who have a right to self-determined life, to dignity, to an independent life. It is not a goal that we burden the families, because with this we have a next danger: In fact, the families are also at risk of poverty. This is a UN convention: We have various articles – Article 29, Article 27 – in the UN Convention. And some think: Well, the disabled people get enough support anyway, work nothing or perhaps work in protected workshops; is quite nice, and maybe a little pocket money, that's enough for these people. In this context, I would like to give you a picture: Imagine a tree! A monkey, a bird, a dog are under this tree. And now I demand of all animals that they climb up onto the tree. - You won't make it. One cannot say that one issue is more important and the other is less important. It is important that we are aware that all people are equal, equal in value! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister! Dear government parties! We are invited, and you are invited to implement the points of the UN Convention in order to give people with disabilities the opportunity to fully participate in life! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8240	Mrs Oberhauser is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8263	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I start with my actual speech, I would like to remind you once again of how exactly it is the FPÖ's view of the truth. A few minutes ago, a broadcast of Belakovich-Jenewein/Hofer went out again with the question of social assistance providers and Turkey, where it says that people from Turkey are immediately beneficiaries of social assistance under the Association Agreement. – That’s simply not true! The Minister said it yesterday in the Committee, and the more often things are repeated: They're not getting any more true. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now to my actual remarks. . I would like to refer to the health system and would like to use it immediately to welcome a group of people to the visitor gallery, namely employees of the Austrian social security agencies who will look at and listen to the debate on our social security system very carefully, and who will then also carry on as the FPÖ thinks about it. Welcome! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are the employees in various hospitals, nursing homes, but also in social insurance schemes that do not work with taboos – yes, Mr. Strache, that's right – but with computers, but much, much more working on people; and I think that's really important to that. We know that people from 58 nations work alone in the Vienna Hospital Association. People from 58 nations work here and care for people. According to the FPÖ and its system of social security for foreigners and the other social security for foreigners, it was said that one can be cared for by the people of the other nations, but one does not allow them to benefit. The word ‘ apartheid’ has been spoken by Mr Oellinger, I believe, today, and the word ‘partheid’ has been adopted today. And if you look at it this way, it's not just apartheid, but in my opinion quite despicable, as is handled here. The Philippine nurse you're in, but she can't be insured here. This is due to transparency, Mr President, because he wants to know what the citizens and what foreigners are getting out of health insurance. This has already been clearly explained by the Minister of Social Affairs, Hundstorfer. I remember: In the last government period, it was Mrs Belakovich, who spoke in a very strong speech, yes, you want two social security systems: one for foreigners, one for foreigners, and the other for foreigners to be reduced to basic benefits. That means we don't let her die, but we really don't care about her. In my opinion, this is very, very humane! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But that's very polemic what you say!]] Unfortunately, my colleague, Mr Strache, is not here. I would have liked to ask him something. He has told us today that Bavaria, a country with more inhabitants than Austria, comes out with a health insurance fund. But maybe Mrs Belakovich can tell me which health insurance companies in Bavaria you mean. Do you know? - Isn't it? – I suppose you mean the AOK Bayern. If you go Googleing the AOK Bayern, which is quite simple, then you'll find that the AOK Bayern provides four million people. I suppose anyone here knows how many million inhabitants of Bavaria have? [[Call:Circa 10]] - 12,5 million! If you were believed, you could think that in principle over eight million Bavaria would not be cared for as far as health insurance is concerned. That, I think, cannot even accept the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you ask exactly, you can see that Bayern has 101 health insurance companies, not one! That's just to show you how to deal with the truth and what you're trying to convey to people here. 101 health insurance companies in Bavaria! We have operating phone, infirmary phone, replacement phone and other insurance companies. – Just so much to truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They say the FPÖ must be put together in order to reduce the administrative costs. The people who sit here at the top of the gallery and who work in social insurance consume 2.2 percent of the total cost of administration. The AOK consumes 5.2 percent – indicate it itself. The AOK Bayern provides 1 000 insured persons with 2.5 employees. In Austria, it is a staff member of 1,000 insured persons. You can save even more administrative costs, you can drive half down, and yet the negative cleanness of the local healthcare phone is still half a billion. That means saving with the combination You certainly don't have the Austrian health system! No, you would significantly worsen the quality of supply, because because of fewer employees outside, your ach would be even worsened so often by abuse, then you can no longer control and there would be no more contacts. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: More checkouts!]] So you see how the FPÖ deals with the truth, you prove it every day. We are proud of our health insurance.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8362	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8384	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we experience a bit strange discussion in a way that is stretching and phase by stage. Since it is obviously the biggest problem of the FPÖ to explain whether Mr Klubobmann Strache has now complained about or not in the speech of Vice-Chancellor Pröll, I must say that the people outside are probably interested as little as Mr Strache explains whether he has ordered three beers or not. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Csörgits.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If we are discussing social and labour market policies today, I think we should also talk about social responsibility. And of course we also need to talk about how economic conditions are in this country. [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is unsanitary!]] Assigned: The situation is not the simplest. The global financial and economic crisis has also put us in a difficult situation. We are all concerned, that is why we must act comprehensively. There are, of course, people who say it's not all due to international causes – I'm right about that. ==References== September certainly has its follow-up effects – especially in these weeks at the beginning of the semester, where there are a lot of local students who do not receive a study place because many foreign students come to Austria because there are no restrictions on entry and the tuition fees are abolished. Question: Is that social? Is this socially fair to our students? - I don't think so. We, the ÖVP, have recognized the situation, recognized the seriousness of the situation and acted accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Access restrictions should be changed!]] Unlike you, Mr Klubobmann Strache, we are equipped with the facts that actually exist in Austria. If you've listened to your arguments, you might think you've gotten your information in Albania or somewhere else. It's your tactic! We are acting, we are taking action! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How do you know how it looks in Albania?]] This year alone, €1.4 billion will be spent on active labour market policies, and 55 000 people and their families will benefit. Smallen You don't have this success, he's actually given! 325,000 people are actively supported by the labour market package. These are workers, young people and businesses who are supported in a crisis like this one of ours. Measures are being put in place in the Ministry of Economic Affairs – also by Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner – in which apprentices are in the foreground. We now have more apprentices than in 2007, but we want more. That is why there is a focus in this direction. We have also done the same in the past. We have strengthened Austria's economic location. [[Abg. Kickl: Strengthen the dairy farmers!]] We have made an effective tax reform to relieve the population, which has benefited 98 percent of the population. In rural areas too, we have put in place relief measures for farmers at this difficult time, as it is now, in favour of EU disbursements, support for AIK refunds or the milk package of over €50 million. - That's just an example. Further: Improvements in the recent past, increase of the AZ directive, childcare allowance, 13. Family allowances, pensionable allowance for child rearing periods – €1.2 billion in pension contributions for mothers, apply to the Republic. Austria has a social rate of over 30 percent of GDP, and 96 billion euros are payments for social benefits or social transfers. Finally, if you look at the distribution of income in an international comparison, you can see from the so-called Gini coefficient that Austria is excellent, that income is widely distributed. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] So we want to create and secure jobs in the regions in the future, because this is socially fair. And to you, dear Mr. Klubobmann, I must say: Responsible action would be appropriate – that looks different. You could have looked at this yesterday at the speech of the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Drifts So you're not a wick in society! Leave the populism and return to a constructive dialogue! Remember tomorrow! If we act socially, we act on a sustainable basis!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8498	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8520	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! The concepts of poverty reduction and ‘active labour market policy’ are gladly addressed in this economic crisis, but concrete measures are not implemented sufficiently. As dramatic as the current situation is, this shows the high unemployment rates in recent months. According to the Social Report 2007 and 2008 of the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection – Mrs Ursula Haubner has mentioned it several times today – 90,000 children live in poverty in Austria, 250,000 are vulnerable and a million people live below the poverty line. And that in Austria! That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:...! There's something confused. That was wrong!]] The risk of poverty is above average in Vienna and in the capitals of Graz, Linz, Salzburg and Innsbruck. This result of the Perception Report will continue to worsen if we are not prepared to counter it accordingly and actually take up the fight against unemployment. At the beginning of September there were about 129,300 apprentices in employment. Compared to the previous year, this is a decline in employment of 2,500 apprentices. More than 7,400 apprentices were looking for an apprenticeship in September. At the same time, the number of open apprenticeships was reduced to around 4 200. It would therefore be desirable if the representatives of all the parties in Parliament were not to give lip confessions but to act together for the youth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] ==References====External links== In January 2010 the introduction of the youth start-up fee was implemented, which is intended to be 1 000 €. This will help the young people in Carinthia and will also help the young people in Austria if the other federal states take an example of this. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] In particular, 2010 and 2011 will show high unemployment rates: Despite all the measures that have now been taken by the Federal Government, it is not necessary to be prophetic to know that the number of young unemployed will continue to rise. The figures in Vienna are particularly alarming: From 1,096 young job seekers in August, the number rose to 1,608 in September. But also in rural areas, job seekers often find too few apprenticeships. This problem is also not solved by the state establishment of teaching workshops, because the teaching workshops do not cover all professions. Of the 250 apprenticeships, 30 are covered in the teaching workshops; in Vienna and Styria there are 30, in other federal states between five and ten. That is why we continue to call for the introduction of the "Blum bonus" in order to strengthen SMEs, for they are training the apprentices in diversity. You can't just focus on one direction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The legitimate question arises whether it would not be better to start an apprenticeship offensive and introduce a “blum bonus” because it would certainly be cheaper than the expensive foundations and teaching workshops. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8587	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8609	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear guests at the gallery! It is already amazing how permanent prejudices from the FPÖ are shaken and with what tenacity you play people against each other. [[Abg. Kickl: What are you doing now?- Oh, my God!]] In the meantime, the matches are no longer called Austrians against migrants and migrants, but obviously also parents against childless. [[Abg. That's a nonsense!]] That's very strange what you're staging there, and no one really does well. Finally, you create dissatisfaction, envy, fears and all other negative feelings that do not contribute constructively to the current situation and to the economic crisis. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Strache: Proven Convolution Policy of the Greens!]] Obviously, when the lake is stormy, it means: Men on board, women in the cabin, and for everyone else, the boat is full. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Bitch: Absolute nonsense!]] You do not seem to notice that men and women – no matter what origin – are divided. That is why I would like to put the focus on women again: Very little has been said about their specific situation today. This is interesting because it is actually more than half the population and also that population that is most affected by poverty – about 14 percent. In figures, these are 587 000 women who are vulnerable to poverty. That means that these women have to think about how they should pay for it when a household appliances comes in. They have to consider whether they are taking their children to a doctor, and they can't pay themselves a doctor's visit – let alone the dentist's visit. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't be so uplifted!]] Yes, you don't think about them! The sparse proposals for solutions, which come from your side, go in the direction that men should be on the labour market and women should stay at home best. What comes from you is the mother's money – and we know that the mother's money ultimately manifests only the risk of poverty. [[Abg. Kickl: Freedom of choice means that, not compulsory!]] [[Abg. Strache: Voluntary! That's...!]] – I miss voluntaryity! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mother money – here!]] Yes, mothers' money is obviously on both sides. Do whatever you want with the mother's money! You can keep that exclusive, we don't need the mother money, there are other solutions! [[New condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: Child Training!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Because you want to punish the mothers!]] The same thing, however, as regards women's policies, I must also say towards the government, especially in the social field. We know there was a big tax reform. Unfortunately, this so-called tax reform has excluded 1.6 million women, namely those who have not yet paid income and wage tax; they have nothing to do with this tax reform. The same applies to the economic packages: We have long missed investment in economic packages, not only in the areas where women are active, but above all in which women would also benefit in a sustainable way. [[Unrest in the hall.]] These are the areas of education and care in which women are active, where women have their jobs, but wherever they are relieved by their families and their children – especially in the afternoon – being properly cared for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek: I miss peace, Mr President. It's so loud! Can you ring a little? That's crazy!]] We are missing measures in this respect and would like to see a lot more – at least as far as the economic measures are concerned. We need not only sluggish concessions, especially in the childcare sector, but at last also implementations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8830	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer will speak. In the debate, your speaking time is up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8862	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll only stop you for 3 minutes. I just want to make a few things clear: For example, if you think that everyone has helped save the BAWAG, I have to say yes, it was a unanimous decision of this House in 2006, but this decision really saved us all! [[Abg. Grosz: The SPÖ has ruined it, the government has saved it! That's the truth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Stop the self-discipline!]] A bankruptcy of BAWAG would have cost the Republic and the financial location of Austria a fortune – and this has resulted in a unanimous decision of this House, because the acting persons at that time recognized what this would mean. [[Abg. Grosz: Who brought BAWAG into bankruptcy at all?]] You know just as well as I do those who brought the BAWAG into bankruptcy, because they're all sitting where the prosecution takes place. [[Abg. Strache: Who signed this?]] - That's one point. Point two: If it is said here again that Turkish citizens of this country will receive the BMS from the first day of their stay, I repeat: For third-country nationals regular access to this possibility is only a matter after five years of stay! [[Abg. Strache: This is not the case in the case of the Association Agreement! The Minister should inform himself.]] Point three: I am delighted that, at once, for the Freedom Party in this country, social assistance is a problem that, at once, social transfer payments are a problem, because that was the conclusion of your speech, Mr Neubauer! [[Abg. Kickl: But only for you!]] What is the meaning and purpose of social transfers? – To reduce poverty, to prevent poverty and to help vulnerable people. This is the meaning and purpose of social transfers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8966	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e8989	Mr President. High house! Bert Brecht will forgive me if I take with him a literary bond: Imagine, the world's largest finance minister – according to the ÖVP-Lesart – giving a speech, and straight away! Imagine, the greatest finance minister in the universe – I didn't believe that you could increase this after Grasser – trying to abolish the hacker's rule, and applause! [[Abg. That's not right!]] – That’s not right then, but it just sucked his hands uncontrolled. We all have to take note of this now! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a complete mat disc!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, only to let the electorate know what they have to say about these cuckoos! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Bert Brecht, “Mother Courage” – not Heinz-Christian Strache! So when the hacker regime is abolished again, he wants to say that he has always been for the maintenance of the hacker's rule, he has forgotten it only during the speech of good Pepi Pröll, because he has already seen himself in the role of criticizing a joint candidate for the Federal presidential election – he has read in the newspaper in the early days that the Pröll senior, the Erwin Pröll, has already proposed. There is no longer any part of the hacker scheme, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grainy.]] Look, my God. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you have to like this when you are free under Heinz-Christian confidence! The hackler regulation has been a regulation that Jörg Haider has demanded and introduced, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the heirs of Jörg Haider today – under the light of a speech by Seppi Pröll – forget that the hackers should actually belong to their voters, then there are people who have not forgotten that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kickl: Ora et ‘collabora’!]] With us, the abolition of the hacker regime cannot be done. We will resist it, and there is nothing to do with it if the Josef Pröll asks for a conclave! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Conclave means no meat, no pleasures – lock up, right? This reminded me a little of today's debate: The FPÖ makes a urgent proposal, but does not make any proposals. Dog torfer answers, but has no solutions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: And the BZÖ has no voters!]] This is like in the GDR, where there was no butter in a shop in the special offer, and no meat in the business. It's similar with you, ladies and gentlemen! They have no answers to the social problems of the people of this country, not there and not there, that is the problem! The only answers that we have given are valid to this day, and of them they are still, Minister of Social Affairs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And I fear that you will probably be mayor of Vienna faster than the social problems of this country will be solved. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Deputy Mayor!]] Maybe it's good, too, because Häupl is in front of the crash – we all know that. That means that this is a temporary job that you are still doing here, but please, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, let yourself come up with something more than the abolition of the hacker scheme! And then, by the way, in the conclave, we discuss as long as the people outside are at risk of poverty – especially our families.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9135	Mr Strache has made a real correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9168	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the time being, I am now making an actual correction so that Mr Stadler can finally see it for himself: During the speech of the Minister for Finance, I did not mention it once, but only as part of the greeting before he started to speak. [[Abg. Grosz: And bravorufe?]] So that you can also perceive – actual correction –: Under my supervision and chairmanship of the Freedom Party, the hacker regime will never be abolished, and I have never complained about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9205	No one is reported in the word anymore. We come to the votes. A total of five votes must be taken. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But why does the street clap before the speech and not after the speech?]] [[Abg. - Because I'm well educated, my colleague. You don't even give your hand, so bad you're raised!]] President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). If you join him, I'll ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen, on the 2010 pension adjustment according to the price index for pensioners' households. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. He's rejected. [[Abg. Street: (in the direction of SPÖ) Socio-politically resigned, that is the result!]] The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Neubauer, colleagues, on the reorganisation of the non-constitutional pension adjustment in 2008. If you support this request, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. He is therefore rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on measures to stabilise the labour market and to combat poverty effectively. If you join him, I'll ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. [[15:21:44]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9316	We shall proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, to set up a Investigation Committee on the investigation of undue influences in the field of the Ministry of Finance. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9417	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in the debate for 5 minutes; the first speaker has 10 minutes to reason. Statements by members of the Federal Government and by-word state secretaries should not last more than 10 minutes. I call Mrs Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9445	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values of divorcing government members! 1 billion € – is equal to 13 billion schilling – more or less than revenue for a budget, that, please, is already something! This 1 billion € we as the Republic of Austria did not succeed, we did not take it because there was the system grasser and his friends. This is the reason for us today that we urgently call on you not only to make this mismanagement the subject of parliamentary investigations, but also the whole network, which was formed in the era of Schüssel/Grasser around the Minister of Finance: the business of this network, the operations which the former Minister of Finance Grasser has to explain in connection with his homepage, the processes of his social funds, the processes of privatisation in connection with the Voest – this was also about privatizing in favour of friends; Magna as a keyword – and also the processes for the loss of half a billion euros from the budget – is wrong, we see that – in the context of the AUA privatisation, which has already been discussed very well in the Grasser era, but we have been refused to see in detail why we have not been looking for a strategic partner in good time. This is a whole add-on element, an entire network, whose individual nodes we must examine parliamentaryly. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree here – first of all in the fact: The era bowl/grass is over!, one second in the fact: The prosecutors are at work! The case of Meischberger, the case of Hochegger are cases not only for the tax authority but also for the prosecutors. In our view, however, that is what we are talking about. The network was so interwoven that it must also become cases for Parliament, namely for an investigation committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were and are also in agreement that we need to strengthen minority rights in Parliament. The convening of committee of inquiry is an instrument, a very important instrument, and we have unanimously decided – unanimously, across all political groups – that the establishment of committee of inquiry is a minority right in the future. Now we have the opportunity for a sample of nails; for a sample of nails, which finally takes account of the past and explains the intertwinedness of political and private business areas. I'd like to get you a little bit of this. It is quite obvious that the case of Meischberger or Hochegger/Meischberger, Bouwog, in connection with the work of Mr. Finanzminister Grasser, is in principle only the tip of an iceberg. I already suggested: In total, the Republic lost more than € 1 billion, because the equivalent of the federal housing companies was in principle much higher. We all know from the discussions on my 30 parliamentary questions, we also know from the discussions on the Court of Auditors report: The Republic was not granted a corresponding proceeds, the true proceeds flowed into the cash registers, into the pockets of private individuals, who are there called: Meischberger, Hochegger, Plech, and probably – I say – it is not to be excluded that Mr. Finanzminister Grasser also had personal advantages. Now he has the advantage of finding some shelter for those whom he served in general with supervisory positions at the time – Plech at the Bouwog, at the BIG et cetera, in the award commission – or, like his rulers from the cabinet, at the financial market supervision, et cetera. Grasser now works with Plach in a joint real estate company. Previously, there was a joint venture with Meischberger. – That’s a network, that’s a braid, and, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP or the SPÖ, it would have to be your personal, your real deepest personal concern to finally settle with this era bowl/grass! At that time, and this is very interesting – please, take a closer look – then there was a State Secretary named Finz; he came from the Court of Auditors. This Secretary of State, as well as ÖVP, was everywhere in the Ministry of Finance. I want to know now, we finally want to know: What did he see? He was there when it came to giving to Lehman Brothers. He was there when the best bidder was called real-estate finance at one time; there was a difference of €1.2 million at the time. He was there when we discussed the award in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. – What, please, was his role? Ladies and gentlemen, is it not also your concern that one should finally end with the era of Schüssel/Grasser in relation to this privatization union, to this friendly economy, which ultimately cost us a little bit as a republic, in many ways? – To clarify this is not just a command of the hour, it is a democratic policy hygiene action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need all the rest of the clarification! Remember, Mr Mitterlehner, too, has said that this is really a scandal, he dissociates himself to the most decisive of these processes. He too wants to be informed. He wants the facts on the table. It must not be that in the wake of this black/largest blue, also orange swamp under grass remains even longer. There belongs to exposed ones, there belongs to illuminated ones, and there is also a responsibility drawn! The Arena, where it is politically responsible, is clearly an investigative committee. We know the Court of Auditors' instruments. There is no obligation of truth in witness statements, where we have no insight into documents. Every time we are allowed to make it clear that those in charge are finally being loaded and available as information persons. These are all acts of grace of the majority group in the Court of Auditors. That is why we finally need minority law to set up committee of inquiry. There it is possible to carry out really restless information and clarify the political responsibility in connection with the foundation of Grasser, in connection with the homepage stories, with the tax arrangements, which are also linked to the homepage, in connection with the privatisation elements. Remember, just today: Petrikovics goes out, the Immofinanz discloses all accounts, at least the public prosecutor's office, discloses all the facts so far. Petrikovics says: It wasn't me alone who paid. These 10 million of Hochegger vice versa Meischberger are not only from my cash register, my consortium member is involved in 50 percent. And the consortium member is Director Scharinger of the Raiffeisenlandesbank in Upper Austria; he has also paid. In the end, the big question is only: What was paid for? Information has gone from the closest circles of the cabinet, information from the narrowest circle of the environment of Minister of Finance Grasser, things that were known only in this circle, which have run in the yellow salon, perhaps also in a red or green salon in the Ministry of Finance, chaired by the Minister of Finance, this information has enabled the Immofinanz to really achieve an Occasion Prize for the BUWOG apartments, almost overnight, over the weekend. And this Occasion Prize is reflected in the financial reports of Immofinanz, because the BUWOG apartments that were acquired were systematically upgraded. After a total of 361 million at the beginning, we expected almost billions of money in the financial reports of real estate finance. I say: That's the money the Republic went down! That's the money we need to know about! And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only a question of the wrong look – the look is devastating – but it is ultimately a question of political self-hygiene and a question of political self-respect. That is why I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, as well as to the SPÖ colleagues – this is an act of self-respect – not to let anything flow into private pockets, the most own republican property, the most own republican money! Make a finish line under the era bowl/grass! Take the opportunity to finally experience parliamentarianism in real form, at the Central European level, at German level! We have already decided – today is the nail sample. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9539	The maximum speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9563	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Moser, what's the most important thing in an investigation committee? – The most important thing is that the witnesses say. And is that guaranteed now? – I am not afraid, because current financial procedures are running, running Public prosecutors' proceedings. And, Mrs Moser, what we both do not want, I believe, is a freshly-fought Karl-Heinz Grasser, who sits in the committee and says quite relaxed, he rejects the statement, and in front of running cameras he may point out that this BUWOG deal was super professional, good for the taxpayer and transparent, everything was fine. – We cannot want to do that, therefore at the moment a committee of inquiry is actually counterproductive. Do you know what the decisive thing is now? – These are the paragraphs of the Criminal Code. It is about abuse of office, bribery, forbidden intervention, violation of official secrecy, infidelity, fraud, tax evasion. That's what it's all about now. If we want to crack the Grasser/Schül system, we need to testify; this is what is happening today; otherwise we would not be here in Parliament. There are backgrounds – I am quite with you – and filtations, which, of course, also bring deep into the FPÖ. I am very curious about how the FPÖ will express itself today. I would remind you, for example, of Mr Plach: The commercial court was then changed from one state body to another, and Mr. Plech has collected €607,000 as a mediation commission. The then FPÖ Justice Minister, Böhmdorfer, said that it was quite reasonable, and immediately gave him the next order again. – So a lot of filtations of this system bowl/grass, ÖVP/FPÖ. The decision on a committee of inquiry will fall in spring. Personally, I am deeply convinced that there will be this committee of inquiry and must be very simple. We will then also look at the ÖIAG, because Mr Michaelis was also in the award commission at the BUWOG decision. If you count high, if you count only 1 percent of commissions, you are also at over €63 million in these sluggishes that have occurred in the context of the ÖIAG – and Mr. Michaelis has also fried at consulting costs! You will remember, Mrs Moser, we discussed the matter of BUWOG in the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in 2003. We were on the right ferry at the time. I formulated this in my minority report at the time, and I asked the crucial question, namely: “For what reasons have several companies been entrusted with advisory services for the privatisation of the federal housing companies?” What was the result? – At that time this question was not answered, it has been depleted with blue-black majority. On the basis of these answers, however, we would have continued at the time, but we only had the usual Blabla of Grasser in the Standing Subcommittee. – And that this is happening to us again, I want to avoid it! In this Standing Subcommittee at the time, we really could not go to the bottom, and even now a committee of inquiry does not help if one does not get any answers from Mr Grasser. But to bring the system grasser to light, we need testimony. I am quite right with you, Mrs Moser, it is a matter of political hygiene in our country, and I also think that the EIA has enough respect for the taxpayer and for the working population, because it can do so. do not be that hundreds of millions, probably billions of dollars, and simply grows grass over it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9630	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9651	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is completely out of dispute that serious criminal charges are in the room here. – That is undisputed, therefore: complete Enlightenment! That is why this entire act is already with the prosecutor, which is why the former Finance Minister himself has given files and documents offensively to the prosecutor. So there's no question. Deficit investigation is indicated here. The prosecutor's on the train. Let us look at some facts and facts about our house! First fact: I just said the case is with the prosecutor. I say quite openly, I have more confidence in judges than in politicians when they want to play judges. That's what I'm saying quite openly. Second fact: The Court of Auditors has examined twice. Third fact: We have asked 26 parliamentary questions and have also received answers. [[Abg. Oellinger: Unfortunately no!]] That means that the matter was here in Parliament several times and fifty times. And one thing I say, too, Mrs Moser: I have experience from the Banking Investigation Committee, and I always say to myself, from my point of view, the 41 days were lost. But, okay, there are colleagues who see this differently. – The big difference between a court and an investigation committee is: The judge is obliged to find the truth, the investigating committee is a purely political tribunal. This has been demonstrated by all previous committees of inquiry. That is why I am opposed to a committee of inquiry on this matter. The prosecutor, the judge, is supposed to decide what was not right here. With regard to further privatisation – please! Let's take a look at privatization alone in the field of ÖIAG! A unique success story! €6.3 billion in debt depleted and obtained the portfolio value, Mr Riepl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] The same portfolio value as before and at the same time €6.3 billion reduced debt, otherwise the taxpayer would have to repay, Mr Riepl, we do not mind! [[Abg. Riepl: The Austrian tobacco is a success story?]] You can rightly say that you have always been against privatisation in a political way. I say that privatisation has made deficit-making public enterprises a profit-oriented, successful, listed company. – A success story of the era Schüssel/Grasser from 2000 to 2006. A classic success story! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hörl: ÖBB!]] Let me also say: If there are people here in the hall who claim to know more than today on the table, I ask them – I also ask you, Mrs. Moser: Give If you pass on this information to the prosecutor, pass on these documents to him, because there the whole thing will be checked! Your application is really relatively transparent. I noticed that in all eight points there is the same wording: Clarification of political responsibility. - But it's clear. All eight points relate to the department of the Ministry of Finance, and if something wrong has happened, then the political responsibility is clear: She was with the Minister of Finance at the time, no question at all! This alone shows the transparency of the political maneuver you are starting here. Once again: complete reconnaissance, but no political spectacle!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9726	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9747	Mr President. High house! Recently, a citizen and taxpayer in Innsbruck told me that there cannot be enough research committees in Austria, because Austria is on its way to becoming a corrupt banana republic. – I would just like to tell you that, and that is why we, too, are liberals today in favour of this Green request so that light can be brought into the dark on this matter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President, of course we are talking about political responsibility. You know exactly that in the government there is the principle of unanimity, the whole government is behind this privatisation. We want to see who is still responsible here, that is why we are in favour. [[Abg. Riepl: Was the grass not a liberal? The grass comes from the liberal barn!]] In addition, Mr President, we are also concerned about lighting the other side, not only the sales side, but also the buyer side, and that is also what is going on in the bank package. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, may I quote a few sentences from the aforementioned “Economic Sheet”, and that is where – I quote – you have read it?; I also inform the others –: [[Abg. Head: We have read that ourselves!]] “The ex-Chairs of Constantia Privatbank Karl Petrikovics, Karl Arco and Norbert Gertner are said to say according to file situation” in the prosecutor’s office “from 2004 to 2008” and write “about €65.42 million in salary.” Ladies and gentlemen, by 2008 these gentlemen – three men – collected 65 million € in salary! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Is there the Grasser's fault?]] And what was the success of their work, Mr. Collegue stupid? – In autumn 2008 the Constantia Privatbank was pleading! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Is that the grasserer's fault?]] And if the state had not intervened with a support of €400 million, it would have also been in the pleite. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: What can the grass for that?]] But that's just one part, the other part still follows. I'll tell you what this is all about. It has continued that, after the State's assistance, this Constantia Privatbank has taken stock. In the first balance sheet this year, 2009, a small profit was recorded for 2008 – at which already 5.4 million € were paid to the board of directors! And then the balance was evaluated. And see: Constantia Privatbank's balance sheet showed a huge loss. – Now I wonder what happened to the credits for the board of directors! Ladies and gentlemen, I still quote the buyer side – we want to see not only the Karl-Heinz Grasser and the ministry, but also the buyer side, the whole group Immofinanz–Constantia Privatbank – and there writes the “Economic Sheet” – I quote again: “According to the Oesterreichische Nationalbank’s report of August 2008, CPAG has taken some €389.7 million of commissions from its commitment to the benefit of the Immofinanz Group from 2004 to 2007.” Ladies and gentlemen! In the light of the price decline of the real-estate shares, I already wonder what happened here and what you have to explain, because I am thinking of the many investors in the real-estate finance, which is now in front of the shards of their investments. That too should be clarified, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I quote the following: Mr. “Arco and Gertner dispute all criminal charges”, the Executive Board director “Petrikovics has already admitted certificate falsification and balance sheet smoothing”. – End of the quote. And now I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire, of the Social Democrats whether they do not have a little pity with their ex-genosian Elsner, who has been in U-Haft for two and a half years now. Should he alone be the scapegoat in Austria, and Mr. Petrikovics, and as they are called, all who have not worked quite clean here too – I don't want to use other expressions, for them still the presumption of innocence – who are allowed to enjoy their millions and walk around freely?- Oh, my God! It is time, ladies and gentlemen, for light to be brought into the dark. “Light in the dark” should be not only for Christmas, but also for the whole year, and especially in this case! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I remember the chorus of Mackie Messer, which reads: “And one is in the dark, and the other are in the light, and one sees only those in the light that are in the dark, one does not see.” [[Abg. May. Worm:... Brecht!]] That's why: Help you bring light into the dark here, so it will become brighter again in our country Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9882	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9903	Mr President. High house! We by the BZÖ will agree to the establishment of an investigation committee. We are not only the BUWOG scandal for a complete processing and reconnaissance, but also other privatisation sales in the era Grasser. It's clear everything's laid open on the table here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What was impressive today is the fact that the SPÖ, especially Mr Herbs, suddenly became afraid of its own courage. I brought you the “NEWS” – published 14 days ago – where you, quoting photo, demand the establishment of an investigation committee! [[‘Öha’ Call at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr. Herbs, what happened? Has the ÖVP exerted pressure on you again? Do you wake up again with the re-election? Do you have other reasons why you ask the SPÖ to divert, Mr Herbs? - We've been listening! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Did you listen?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Overturned like a broom handle!]] We have not understood why, within a week, you are calling for an investigation committee to be set up, to speak of a judicial scandal, rightly of a judicial scandal – and today you are scratching the curve and rejecting an investigation committee. Explain that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will also have to ask: To what extent is the SPÖ – I only suggest: Quit the town of Villach for the pre-buying of ESG apartments and others – involved in this BUWOG scandal? I know why the SPÖ is interested that light is not brought into the dark here! You say here – rightly – a judicial scandal! They have been suing justice inactivity since 2003. It is indeed a scandal, because since 2003, justice – perhaps also through your intervention, Mr Herbs – has been aware of the incidents and inconsistencies. But even now, after a trial, after several criminal charges, how is the judicial system going here? – This is the next scandal that the Minister of Justice has to explain to Bandion-Ortner. In any other European country, in such a crime – €10 million and more – the persons concerned are being arrested to prevent concealment and other things. In Austria, on the other hand, Mr. Meischberger is called to make a search for the house in 14 days. Literally quoted Meischberger: We thought they were coming! – Well, he will have cleaned up his villa in Hietzing! Or: For example, surveys are announced. The Minister of Finance is politely asked when he has time when he can come by once that he can be asked a few questions, and the like. I would also like to say the following briefly: It is necessary that an investigation committee be set up here, that political responsibility is also clarified. But just a hint to the justice, which she could have done a long time ago. With a single procedure, we could answer all questions: Open the accounts of those affected! Open the accounts of Karl-Heinz Grasser, by Walter Meischberger, by Hochegger and other stakeholders, then you will see what flows of money have taken place – it would actually be the duty of the justice to do so – especially those accounts at the Meinl bank! I would like to draw attention to this. [[I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Greens on his report.]] That's why I gather: We from the BZÖ are not like the SPÖ in favour of assigning this to justice right now – although Mr Herbe speaks of a judicial scandal, although the SPÖ speaks of the fact that three years have not been done in the knowledge of all the crimes. We do not make the EDP the robbers so that one can cover all these things – because the BUWOG case is only one of those privatization cases that have been handled under the era Grasser and where inconsistencies have appeared. That is why this Committee of Inquiry is necessary. We agree with him, and we ask him to do so. And we call on the SPÖ not only to announce, but also to follow their words.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e9990	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e10011	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For one thing, there should be a majority here in the house and in every political group: Most of us do not want to hear the name KHG anymore – and for that I have a lot of understanding; I do. But how do we get to it, how do we achieve that? – Finally, there will be no way of passing it – I am turning to the ÖVP in the first place – that at least one of these strange processes, in order not to say more accurately: Scandals, which are lit around KHG; Transactions around its friendly economy, its networks and everything that can be offered on associated vocabulary at all; at KHG it always fits. If we want to stop following us all the time, and if we finally want to be able to draw a final line, then it will succeed if at least some affairs – not all of them, that is not even my interest again – are exemplified. The aim of this proposal is to set up a committee of inquiry. Mr President, you have not only aversion to the reading of files, but also, obviously, to the reading of applications, because if you had read our request, you would have seen how it was built up, namely, that some of these unbearable business stories were clarified. And that is – now I come to you from the ÖVP – in fact in the interest of the ÖVP, at least the new ÖVP leadership! Why? – Because then you could finally get rid of the accusation that there are still renunciations and renditions of the system grasser playing a role in you. [[Abg. Strache: Pulling son of the bowl, isn't he? Grasser as a drawing son of the bowl!]] And of course one is already a reason why you should strive for this end – and this is already the whole Republic; for me the current past treatment from the era Black-Blue – is: It is a question to be resolved, as it is possible, that someone like Karl-Heinz Grasser sluts into a ministerial office – or by whomever he is ordered there – in a strange way not only chooses his cabinet – that is his good right – but in all the surroundings, from the note bank to the FMA, to what I know, where his friend is going everywhere – that would not be the main problem when it comes to positions of trust that the government occupies, but: those who then have honest friends again, including Karl-Heinz Grasser himself, in the private environment – in the private environment!; and Meischberger, Hochegger, and there are others, that's exactly the one! – so that at the end of the findings – and it is no longer to be taken away – there is a minister here, under your tolerance – I don't even say: with help – who can afford to use this office to the detriment of taxpayers in their treasure to serve his own friends. That is the result in several cases! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the BZÖ.]] He was also the victim of his neoliberal rhetoric: “More private, less state!” – Yes, taken by the state and given to his friends – and this can be proved in several cases. – It is therefore in your interest: You have to break it because otherwise you'll be able to hear it from us for a long time. Now it's about the next one. Now it's about looking to see that we finally draw and build conclusions for the future, so that it can't happen again. And precisely in this lies the high wisdom of this request. It is not only about BUWOG – although the evidence is now oppressive – it is also about the so-called roadshow. Who's there? – Hochegger, Martrix, Meischberger, the side views; so the side-view lot that has always hit here, and always the same. Several million tax money for the Minister of Finance to make ten smiling appearances to inform SMEs that he is the greatest minister of finance – for their own money to pay their own tax money! It's going through like it is – I don't know what color it fits; anyway, like a terrible thread. Therefore: A few scandals clarified – and finally, even in our own interest! Now I come to the other argument, which is always very popular and is brought: Well, it investigates justice, it does not say then, and at all: first the justice, then the Parliament! – Completely wrong! Then: First of all, he can and can only dismiss other defendants from the statement where it is directly related to the procedure. But it's about a lot more – I told you. In addition, it is natural and, above all, political responsibility. Then: I almost do not think that this is the time for the public prosecutor's office to do this again, with this pressure of proof. Only: They're just investigating criminal matters. On the other hand, we would have to examine: How can it come about, and may it perhaps be prevented in the future from simply playing down from the ministerial bank, that from the ministerial bank down own officials and others are being led to misuse taxpayers' money to put their own friends in the bag? That must be Parliament's interest and your interest. And that's why we make you an offer several times – and soon you will agree, because otherwise you won't stand up to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e10077	The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. Opinion on the request by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, to set up an investigation committee. If you give your consent, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[15:56:12]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e10119	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications 802/A(E) to 821/A have been tabled. Questions 3204/J to 3281/J were also raised. Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00039_d8e10143	I also announce that, in connection with the self-employed application 821/A, the Court of Auditors has carried out a special act concerning the award of container trucks by ÖBB-Dienstleistungs GmbH Rail Cargo Austria AG, a request of 20 delegates within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 21. October, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. I announce that, following this meeting of the Immunities Committee in the local III, its meeting will take place. Following this, the Committee on the Interior will re-enter its meeting in local VI in the morning. This meeting is closed.
