ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3614	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The Official Protocol of 39. ==References== In October 2009, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Großruck, Praßl, Dr. Schüssel, Themessl, Vilimsky, Dr. Lichtenecker and Keck. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3645	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Johannes Hahn is represented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger. [[09:08:23]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3699	I announce that the Members of Parliament are Ing. Westenthaler, Bucher, colleagues within the meaning of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure have raised written objections to the agenda of today's and tomorrow's sitting. Agenda items 6 to 9 of the agenda of the 40 will then be adopted. Meeting – these are the reports of the Committee on Internal Affairs – removed from today's agenda and as Agenda items 1 to 4 at the beginning of the 41. The agenda for tomorrow's agenda will be discussed. Mr Rosenkranz spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3723	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also raised objections to the agenda for the 40th and 41th years. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and We wish that Agenda items 6 to 9 of today's agenda – proposals from the Committee on the Interior – should begin at the beginning of the 41. Agenda items 1 to 4. We also call for a corresponding debate on the objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3753	I am not in favour of these objections. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3780	Madam President. Before you do not accede to these objections, allow me to explain our written request by way of business regulations. We want that according to § 50 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure today's agenda items 6 to 9 – those are the issues of foreign law and asylum law – are to be dealt with tomorrow as the first item on the agenda, i.e. 1 to 4, because we believe that this matter is also one of the most important materials for the people of this country, because immigration and asylum is a matter that moves people burningly. That is why we do not want to know them for a long time in the evening, but at a time when people can also follow the debate, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3810	I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. The debate and the vote on the objections will take place after the current hour. [[09:10:58]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3835	We will now arrive at the current hour – the meeting will be transferred live by ORF until 1 p.m. – on the subject: “The Chaos rides train” Mr. Klubobmann Bucher was the first to speak. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e3863	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “The Chaos rides train” is the striking title of today’s current hour. The ÖBB are, as it were, permanent patients at our country's political operating table. There's always going to be an intervention everywhere. Not only since the medical data scandal, but for many months, yes years, the government has regularly bled around the ÖBB, but also by the trade unionists. You never know what to do. In all cases, there is a possibility that the Federal Government will go out of the ÖBB towards AUA. What happened to the AUA, we still remember very well! The union obviously wants to make the ÖBB a second BAWAG scandal. That is foreseeable, ladies and gentlemen. This is the conclusion that can be drawn from the gross observation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Faul: The BZÖ...!]] On the sins of the Federal Government: They're comprehensive! I can only remember – the memory gaps especially among the railway trade unions are likely to be very large! – what only Federal Minister Faymann has done with the ÖBB in recent years! I can remind you of the discharges of the board of directors at the ÖBB. You forget all this so quickly, Mr Haberzettl! I would remind you that Mr Huber has been approved of an advisory agreement of € 300 000 without answering the question of what kind Mr Huber is doing. This has not yet been explained that Mr Huber has been given €300 000 and does not require an advisory mandate. [[Abg. Faul: The Huber... BZÖ-Man!]] 600 million € will be speculated. Well, if you see how many billions are speculated in this country, then 600 million euros are relatively modest. For a company like the Austrian Bundesbahnen, however, this is very, very much. The main victims, ladies and gentlemen, are the taxpayers of our country. 4 billion € are put into the ÖBB annually from the ordinary budget, so that the ÖBB can make 2 billion € in turnover. This business bill must be broken down on the tongue once! Every economist in this country fails to do so. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 4 billion € subsidy from the country, the federal government and 2 billion € turnover. Whoever makes this piece of art is highly prized, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, debt increases from year to year. There is today a debt of €12 billion for the ÖBB, and in 2023 this will account for €26 billion – just to bring this to mind! These are out-of-budget debt. These are not debts that we are negotiating here during the budgetary negotiations. These must be treated and remunerated extraordinarily. Who are the big threshing payers? – On the one hand, the taxpayers, but of course also the customers who travel by train who cannot give up on the train. These are the commuters of our country who go to work every day. They have to give up the comfort. These must pay higher ticket prices. These must cope with delays. And above all these must take note of one thing, Mrs Bundesminister, namely that you do not think you are unable to realize what the Federal Ministers have promised in recent times, namely the timely completion of the Koralmbahn, in fact. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have to ask yourself seriously, ladies and gentlemen: What can one still rely on in this Republic? What is the word of a Federal Minister in this country? What else is a minister's word worth when you go here and pull off the funds that the Koralm investments are making, just so that you can eliminate the disaster at the main train station in Vienna, where your mayor is in Bredouille, because there are 900 million euros planted and you don't know how you get out of this mess? There is a second Skylink scandal at the Vienna site, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You want to avoid this because you stand in front of the country elections in Vienna. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the truth. Don't try to explain to us that you suddenly hit rock when you drilled the coral! [[Abg. Silhavy: Now!]] This cannot be the reason why the delays in construction are now taking place. In fact, if you build a tunnel through a mountain, you have to expect that sometime you will find rock. This is nothing new, ladies and gentlemen. Miss decisions, mismanagement and abuses resolve each other. This is also the reason why the Austrian Bundesbahnen stand there today as they stand. The health data affair is only a proposed affair of the trade unionists. In fact, there is an objective behind this, namely to interrupt and reverse the service contracts concluded bilaterally by the ÖBB with the individual servants of the Bundesbahn. These service contracts were private-sector. Finally, they have led to a drop in the number of days of sick leave from 27 to 17. [[Abg. Haberzettl: You are totally unsuspecting!]] You have to imagine that. That's a huge success for the train! Mr Haberzettl, you should be proud that this has succeeded! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The average number of days of sick leave is still 11 a year, ladies and gentlemen. This has brought more flexibility to the ÖBB, which has ultimately brought more wages to employees. The union now wants to undermine this and get this idea of performance out of the ÖBB. The Austrian Federal Railways do not want to have any idea of performance. You want to go back to the old times of the nineties, ladies and gentlemen, Haberzettls of this Republic! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Mr Haberzettl, why don't you take over the job of the Director-General of the ÖBB? That would be much more honest and decent. [[Congratulations and call at BZÖ:Yes!]] Take this job! You're conducting this company anyway and you're telling me where it's going. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You earn less too!]] It is significant what can be learned from a leaflet by Mr Haberzettl of 25. September this year reads. That's where he's talking about evaporation of the railways. [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] He said that collective labour law would be undermined by these new service contracts. If you look at anyone who has taken advantage of these service contracts, Mr Haberzettl, then something really comes up to you! Works councils like to purchase this modern service right, for example the Deputy Group Works Council Chairman of ÖBB – your deputy, Mr. Haberzettl! – Mr Gottfried Winkler. He liked to buy it. Why? - Because he gets 1 000 € per month more. [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Abkassiers are on their way!]] Mr Werner Harrer, Chairman of the Central Works Council of Rail Cargo Austria AG – no unknown! –, gets 500 € more per month. [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A little grain money!]] He was happy to have access to this offer. Or works councils of ÖBB-Personenverkehr AG: Radlingmayr Helmut, 400 € per month more. This can be continued. Board of Directors of the ÖBB infrastructure: Fleckinger Herbert, monthly 900 € more. All of us can be told of the “disfellowshipping” you are talking about, not to mention the advantages such as service weights and drivers who receive these works councils. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Haberzettl, of course you do not need it! You do not need this advantage because you are the National Council anyway, you are the Chairman and the Group's Works Council of the ÖBB, Federal Chairman of the Socialist Trade Unions' Group in the Transport Section, in the VIDA, where you receive the service car and the chauffeur. [[Abg. Riepl: I don't think so!]] In total, you earn € 17 000 a month. I am not jealous of you, but then you can make the Director-General of the ÖBB – that would be much more honest – and take responsibility for the ÖBB with you, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's all wrong! Wrong speech about the previous year!]] This is an dishonest way of dealing with the interests of the workforce. I do not criticize the workforce, I do not criticise the staff of the ÖBB, but only the trade union, which influences in a self-glorious way this company – in a self-glorious way! Many recent research and articles, such as those in the “FORMAT”, are a testimony to how you conduct and influence this company beyond your circumstances, where you act in a self-glorious manner and conclude agreements without legitimately allowing it to happen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a point to be put to the pranger in this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! We again need a powerful and modern railway – and not a protected workshop for the trade unions of the ÖBB! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4092	Mrs Bures spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4114	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the intention behind today's debate is easy to see – and it also has a system. Since yesterday, the famous Grasser system has gotten a new facet where it has been about the squattering of 10,000 national apartments. And it is always the same pattern that is applied: An Austrian company, the people who work there, are disavowed, this company is constantly being criticized, an Austrian brand we should be proud of is being ruined in a sustainable way, in order to make this company worse under the price – and you would, of course, prefer it to your friends. That's the system! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a positive message: Today, this system employs the courts and is fortunately a thing of the past. And I can tell you: With the Social Democracy in the Federal Government, there will no longer be such a thing about the economy of friends, as has been the case in the past! [[Oh-Rufe at FPÖ and BZÖ and ironic hustle and bustle at ÖVP.]] However, I would like to say clearly and clearly: Yes, there are problems. There are problems with the ÖBB that this company has to master. Yes, I am in favour of the company becoming much more customer-friendly than it was in the past. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What does Haberzettl say about this?]] I am in favour of people being able to rely on the company and there is more punctuality in the train connections. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... at least the Haberzettl ask!]] And you can rely on it: This will also measure the management of the ÖBB in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Management can't do anything without Haberzettl! It's just the Haberzettl!]] And: I am in favour of this company facing very big challenges, which, as I said, must also be mastered. But do you know what's unfair? – In this debate, it is unfair if the BZÖ – and unfortunately obviously a little accompanied by our government partner – is trying to scandalize something that they themselves have caused today. [[Owl at BZÖ]] I just want to remind you: It was your transport ministers, the ministers Schmid, Reichhold, the famous Minister Forstinger, Gor-bach – the State Secretary Kukacka I would rather not mention, ladies and gentlemen – these rulers were the causes of many problems that the ÖBB have to deal with and master today. [[Abg. Riepl:... Not famous at all!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because of the short time I have, I would just like to give a few examples: In 2003, you introduced pension schemes at ÖBB in order to attract 8,000 people to the pension in advance – often against their will – in this company. [[Abg. Bucher: Against the union? Against the union? Did the Haberzettl...?]] Today, you're yelling: Let's go! – That’s the unfair thing about your discussion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also unreasonable that just seven years ago you have killed this company that has not maintained the rail network on a regular basis – and today you are suing construction sites! This is also an unreasonable political behaviour on your part. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to talk about the business structures at the ÖBB, which were unacceptable, which we fortunately repaired immediately. But one point might still be regarding the debt level of the ÖBB: It was a BZÖ Federal Minister in the black and blue government who ordered managers who operated financial speculation. 600 million € speculated! This is a scandal – but it is your scandal, Mr. Bucher! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] But fortunately, these times are over. I am one of these important Austrian infrastructure companies. And these oeuvres, they have a face: There are 40,000 people who, like many people in our country, work hard, who try to really do their best every day! [[Abg. Bucher: That's what the union deserves!]] These 40 000 people transport 1.2 million passengers every day – these are students, students, commuters, commuters – to prevent us from having 9 million tons of freight on the road every month. We are the best in the European Union – the best! – with regard to freight transport on the rail instead of on the road. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Come on!]] [[Call the BZÖ:The best wasters!]] 3.4 million tonnes of CO2 emissions are prevented annually by this company. This is the largest climate protection project of the present and, in our opinion, the future too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And because the Austrian Federal Railways Company is so important for the environment, for climate protection, for a modern infrastructure, for strengthening our economic location and for small and medium-sized enterprises in our country and has such an important role – in fact existentially necessary, if we also want to enforce ourselves as an economic location in European competition – that is why we have tied the largest investment package of the Second Republic, therefore we will expand the central networks, therefore we will expand the South Railway, from the Semmering Base Tunnel via the Koralm Tunnel. At the Koralm Tunnel, miners, construction technicians, construction workers, will work there for the first time – and for the first time, in contrast to the past – 24 hours a day, in three shifts seven days a week, to ensure that we can provide a modern rail network for the population and for freight transport in Austria in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will speed up the railway with these investments. We're gonna clear the needlehole. We will renew a hundred stations in Austria. We will also make dangerous railway crossings, where too many accidents happen, safer by these investments. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What has happened so far?]] Ladies and gentlemen! At all these groundworks that we are doing there, at the opening celebrations, at the roof equality celebrations at railway stations are next to me – and I am delighted about it, I am really pleased, it is beautiful – in the first series of politicians of this House, namely from all parties. [[Abg. Bucher: What about the Koralmbahn, Mrs. Federal Minister?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are touched! We're all touched!]] You're in the first row next to me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Main thing in the first row!]] But do you know what's not going on? – What is not going on is that when it comes to investing in a modern rail network, there is no one next to me in the first row that – quite the contrary – there will be fires against the company from full pipes by hedge protectors. That is unfair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: What about the Koralmbahn?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Say smoothly if you mean the ÖVP!]] On the one hand, you cannot celebrate the modernisation, the coral tunnel, the construction measures, the employment effects that we have through it, with the slightest increase in unemployment in the European Union, and always stress the economic benefits of the European Union, if you do not at the same time – otherwise you are unbelievable! – to these investments, it is also necessary for the ÖBB to finance these modernisations through loans. [[Abg. Grosz: That's where you... € shortened, Mrs. Minister, at the height of the economic crisis! – This is a denial of reality!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Why do you cut the investment? Why are you shortening her?]] And so I also agreed with the Minister of Finance in writing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Why do you cut her?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister of Transport and out of deep conviction that we need an ecological, modern infrastructure in Austria and it is high time that we set these modernisation steps, I am fully behind this new path. I stand for an environmentally friendly, customer-oriented service company ÖBB, based on the 21st century. ==References====External links== I stand at this company and want all Austrians, especially those who also use the railway, to be rightly proud of this company. [[Abg. Oils: That's the problem! Unfortunately, there are really problems!]] That's what I stand for, and I'll take care of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4468	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Heinzl has now come to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4513	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, I congratulate you for your courage that you have brought in this current hour with the theme “The Chaos Drives Railway”, where everyone in this Republic knows that the personalised chaos was actually the transport ministers of the ranks of your party friends. I would therefore like to congratulate you on this courage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen, that there are currently certain quality problems for the ÖBB, especially with regard to punctuality. However, if you look at the matter carefully, there are many reasons which are already being dealt with, and the situation is improving, I would like to say, almost daily. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the hour, we know!]] ÖBB has announced that 90 percent of punctuality will be achieved by the end of 2009. And it is really my deepest conviction, ladies and gentlemen, that only a well-developed, modern rail network can be the foundation for public transport and ensure high quality for the customer. Austria has a lot to gain in this area – the Federal Minister has just told us: Most of our rail network is still from the period of monarchy. The car material of some sideways is not much younger. And I'm sure you'll all agree that this is a cut-off for thousands of comrades. But our Federal Minister Doris Bures, with the massive investment in the development of the rail network, is doing just the right thing. Again to repeat for those who do not want to register or want to understand – or perhaps do not understand –: From 2009 to 2014, the total amount of € 13.9 billion will be invested in the expansion of the rail. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Where did you get the money? Where does the money come from?]] Without these measures, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, we would have less than 40 000 jobs in Austria during this period. In addition, some 100 stations are being renovated or newly built. This concerns not only the buildings, but also the railways throughout Austria. However, security is also invested: Throughout Austria, 100 railway crossings are depleted to reduce the number of major road accidents. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ: As part of this expansion, in my hometown, the Lower Austrian capital of St. Pölten, the freight transport system will finally be further developed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who made this happen?]] And I am sure, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, you can remember exactly that your own short-term minister, Schmid, stopped the construction of the St. Pölten freight train at that time and thus put around 100 million € in the Traisenschotter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the past ten years, the already built buildings, bridges and so on the freight transport of St. Pölten have fallen to ruins. Now we're celebrating on the 24th. November, thanks to Minister Bures, the groundwork for further construction. In this construction project alone, € 450 million will be invested. And since we're already on the subject of money: The financing of public transport, ladies and gentlemen, is – and this is important to me – the common task of the federal and state states. I would also like to remind some of our federal states of this. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Each of you, who has already renovated a house or modernized an apartment, knows a reconstruction or expansion is never pleasant, it dusts. Nevertheless, we all gladly take up these inconveniences and tackle these works. The reason for this is simple: We know that the situation after the conversion will be much better than before. And so it's similar with the ÖBB: The development and modernisation of the rail network bring great and small inconveniences, which is not to be disputed. No one can expect Pendler to be happy if they have to get up earlier when the freeway to work is late every day. Despite all these problems, however, we must keep in mind the common objective, namely a comprehensive, high-quality and sustainable supply for public transport. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are still many points to be made here, but to put it to the point: Firstly, with the ÖBB Framework Plan and with the economic package, so much is invested, attracted, accelerated and renewed as never before in the Second Republic. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's why you're going to remove the coral tunnel!]] The final sentence, Madam President: I would say, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, finally stop criticizing the work of the government and our minister. Do productive work for the people in our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4618	Next, Mr. Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4640	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This current hour gives an opportunity to bring a little transparency to the Austrian Federal Railways. I've already said: ‘ÖBB’ stands for ‘Austria’s most important construction site’ or for ‘Austria’s most important budget problem’. I am very grateful to the boy ÖVP and her supervisor Sebastian Kurz, who with an action this morning have tried to get answers to some questions, such as: Who is the owner of the Austrian Federal Railways? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Haberzettl!]] Who has political responsibility at the Austrian Federal Railways? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Haberzettl!]] Or also: What can the taxpayer expect from the person responsible? The answer is quite clear, Mrs Bundesminister: They're the ones responsible for it. And, of course, it is now also a little bit to analyze the situation. As far as the public grants are concerned, Mr Bucher, we are still taking a few steps: You have spoken of €4 billion, we still count the liability for it, in an order of approximately €2.1 billion. They must also be repaid at some point. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That only makes the whole thing more dramatic!]] In this respect, we are talking about a volume of about €6.5 billion, and by the year 2013 there will be 7.4 billion. That means – and the young ÖVP has developed a “favourable card” here, issued on Mr Haberzettl – that every taxpayer in Austria has to pay €2 500 to the ÖBB, without it being taken along. [[the speaker places a panel in front of the speaker’s desk in the look of the ÖBB advantage card, with the inscription: “Facility card – Haberzetl – costs every Austrian 2 500 € per year”]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the debt will amount to €20 billion by 2013. So in three years we have about €20 billion in debt. And what is the effect? – The effect is, ladies and gentlemen: full trains, cold trains, dirty trains and enormous delays. Mrs. Federal Minister, I must draw your attention so that you do not come across the propaganda of Löwelstraße or the Chamber of Labour. The workers' chamber expert said 12 days ago, on a Saturday, that these delays occur and there is no information, due to the reform of the black and blue government and this breakdown into different societies. From the same house, ladies and gentlemen, there is a 1999 workers' chamber survey. In this, 74 percent of respondents complained about the information manko. And we know who was responsible for the Austrian Federal Railways by the year 1999. [[Abg. Riepl: But there you were in the government too!]] This is a huge problem in passenger transport. It was only for the sake of good order that there is a difficult situation in freight transport due to the economic crisis, but there is a very professional direction of management. – I believe that this is a question of leadership and management quality. In my opinion, what we need in the Austrian Federal Railways is a competent representative of owners, a strong management, an experienced Supervisory Board and a staff representative who has the interests of the employees in mind, but also thinks of the company and its customers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the SPÖ:Huber!]] [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Mr Haberzettl must be careful not to push him into the role of becoming a lawyer of the Tachinians and Largiers. Mr Haberzetl, that is what I am telling you from this point of view. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] If, according to a survey recently published, 67 percent of the respondents believe that she cannot intervene, then there is a need for action, my highly valued Mrs Bundesminister. [[Abg. Heinzl: Huber!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Look away and dive through this recipe, which has not already worked with Faymann. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who should believe this?]] I give you today a recipe for all those responsible at the Austrian Federal Railways – this is a very typical Austrian proverb, Mr Heinzl: Acting instead of sanding is recommended. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4786	Mr Fichtenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Fichtenbauer. Five minutes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Get out of the government with the sanders!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a little more peace in the hall, please! Mr Fichtenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Fichtenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4824	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is not true that the evil opposition has invented the unbearable theme of railway and railway chaos, but that is the focus of the worst public attention. The media are concerned with this issue most massively and rightly. If we take out individual points of this thematic referral, then, for example, a quote from the Federal Minister. In the future, the ÖBB needs to focus on customers again, demands transport minister Doris Bures himself. If I look at the seriousness of this statement in connection with today's speech by the Federal Minister, I have to say that it is more like a motivational speech by a socialist central secretary or a secretary. The demand to put customers in the centre again reminds me of something that has made the round in the Vienna cabaret scene of the 1960s about the Weiland socialist mayor Marek, who should have said there: Man must serve man and not vice versa. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we transfer this model of thought to the consultation of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs with the chaos at the ÖBB, the picture will be brightened. It is a reflection between the unseen reality and the self-conception that this reality has nothing to do with itself. Because of a total of 65 years of republic, of which about 55 years of socialist rule over the infrastructure ministry, which has always been said differently, but at least over the railway, one wants to take out six years of black and blue government and claim that there has been all that is happening today on the malaise of the railway. Apart from the fact that the past management is never the model of future management, I do allow myself to point out the realities, not how the government bank or politics views the matter, but how the people who depend on the railways feel the situation. Again a look at press releases, namely: “Who wants to ride the freeway in Vienna at the moment” – tag Praterstern, daily 20,000 people who don’t know if and when they have a connection – “should not be color-blind. Red, green, yellow and blue stripes can be found on the schedule that hangs in the info box on the Praterstern in Vienna. They're supposed to tell the traveler when he gets where he's going. Some trains are only affected on certain days, some all the time, betraying the legend. Those waiting for the train on the slow platform can find out more about other important things in the showcase. Four seats with rail replacement traffic, three with 'traffic restrictions', the indication of the'redirection of the line Rex 7381' hung close there. If you want to know, you will also learn that the summer timetable is still valid – as this one looks out – due to continuous construction work on the Tullner Donaubrücke, it will not be betrayed.” So a number of characteristic management defects that my colleague Maier has already listed can be summed up without a claim for completeness. The dissatisfaction of the passengers with the timetables is increasing on a daily basis. Trains are deleted, connections are no longer accessible, students and commuters come to school and to the workplace too late daily. Despite this, travel prices are, of course, constantly increased. The number of trains that are not punctual also increases. At the same time, of course, the ÖBB for delays must pay fines. But that's just a small aspect of the billions. In April 2009, only 66.3 percent of long-distance trains were on time. The closure of the runways is associated with this chaos. This, of course, marks the rural region once again with feet. Routes, thousands of commuters are forced to change to the car. Many parents have to take the children to the train by car, where they have a connection point. In other words, regions of the country are severely disadvantaged. The closure of regional railways often takes place without the possibility at all that a private provider could make this regional railway own. Prestige projects are preferable and the entire infrastructure is disadvantaged. Final word: Maybe the chaos can get better. The hope for it is moderate, but the responsibility lies with this federal government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4896	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e4917	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! They spoke about "friendly economy" at the ÖBB earlier. I can tell you what kind of business is at the ÖBB. Commercial councilman Kurt Eder, former SPÖ transport spokesperson, is on the Supervisory Board of the capital company. This is the business of friends, Mrs. Minister! You have also referred to Mr Gorbach. Mr Gorbach has done something, and he has taken politics out of the ÖBB, but you have not done so. It's been the same way. That was the right way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bures, I've already wondered that She did not answer the only question that Klubobmann Bucher asked, namely, those after the Koralmbahn. You didn't mention that with any syllables. I will now also ask you a question about the Wolfurt freight station in Vorarlberg. He's bursting out of all the seams. Mrs. Minister! When is something finally happening there? You could act there, there's a need for action. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the title should be: The red chaos at the ÖBB is on track. – The red chaos, i.e. piping, bad luck and pans, is on the agenda as it quotes the “format”. Privilegies for the ÖBBler still and noch. Mr Bucher mentioned this. I would also like to give you an example: Special contracts for all ÖBB staff recruited before 1996. There has not yet been a hacker scheme, but the ÖBBlers have nevertheless retired at the age of 52. Ladies and gentlemen! Where's the justice? By comparison, a police officer who regularly has to retire with 65, but with twelve night shifts per month. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Is that justice? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Other quote: Mr Maier, whose speech I liked very well today because she was really honest, has also quoted from a magazine what Mr Haberzettl and his comrades are the Sargnagels of the ÖBB. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] – Ladies and gentlemen, so it is! In “Today” of this day, read in the subway, you will find the following: ÖBB problem, Haberzettl and the union. This is what 67 percent of SPÖ voters see. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have to think about what you are doing wrong! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Haberzettl blocks everything we know. He pulls the threads in the background, everybody knows, that's an open secret. Mr Bucher has already told you that I can offer it once again: If you were with your principal salary of €17 000, you could save a little bit. That would be more reasonable. Further: 27 days of sick leave, now 17 thanks to the reform of colleagues Gorbach. I have to mention him again, thank you. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] In the private sector it is eleven days. Think about whether there really is working so hard that people get so sick. - I don't think so. I will continue to read: The union has also failed in the case of the medical data. You are in the background, you are running the company, the Federal Minister is sitting in the locomotive, but without leadership, because she has no lever in her hand. That's all you do from behind. I would like to address the merger of societies: Now reassembled on three. And do you know what the Krux is about? – The consequence is more service-free trade unionists. So it is, ladies and gentlemen! That's where we know who worked. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The union is the grave of the dead anyway. You put the BAWAG in the sand. They have put the “consum” in the sand – and now the ÖBB are added. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address a problem which is always being discussed openly. Politics has too much influence in the ÖBB, ladies and gentlemen. That's what it looks like. There is no reasonable work to be done there because politics is always in between. Experts also say quite clearly: Due to the constant change in management for political reasons, nothing can be done, these people cannot even work. Mr Haberzettl, you could write that over your ears, I'll tell you. The costly decommissioning of managers – only for political reasons. What Mr. Huber had collected! What has been done here, just to get rid of these people, because he had the wrong political color! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong way. [[Abg. Heinzl: What's going on?]] If I look at the performance of the train with the slow-track trains, I have to say: If you drive from Vorarlberg to Vienna, this is a disaster. You can't get to a meeting, you don't have a chance. Final sentence: Minister for Foreign Affairs You will find this site on ÖBB, which will give you Your predecessor, the current Chancellor, has left behind! There's a man in need, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5000	Mrs Moser has now come to the fore; another five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5021	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The customers, Mrs. Minister, you are absolutely right, the passengers, the people who really rely on good schedules every day, on attractive vehicles, the commuters, have the right number one to have a proper public railway link in Austria. This customer interest, Mrs. Minister, I really hear from your mouth for the first time today. In my opinion, this would also be the starting point for the entire ÖBB policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this House we are discussing the ÖBB first because of the trade union – I really don't care, that's the case of the social partners et cetera – and secondly because of investment questions, Mr Heinzl has mentioned it today, more than 13 billion. That one. Mrs. Minister, you agreed to honesty, remember. The Court of Auditors has held many years ago, we have over 235 slow-off points, the customers of the ÖBB daily – daily! – Lifetime costs. And these slow places are a relic, not only from the time of black and blue. One must be honest, Mr Draxler, too, has had a single big vision, and that was an extension of freight transport. And what has flowed into freight traffic has been offensive from his point of view, everything else was secondary. Please, that was the era of black-red. It is very likely that the ÖVP has been involved in investing billions in the development of new projects for the construction industry. Our big problem, Mrs Minister, is that customers are not at the centre of the ÖBB policy, but the Baulobby, not those who systematically eliminate the deficits in slow travel, but those who are driving the billions of projects. Mrs. Minister, let's just do it, let's look at Switzerland's neighboring country. I would also recommend this to the BZÖ, especially my colleague, who comes from Vorarlberg. There, too, that is interesting, there is a discussion about the billions of SBB. The SBB needs 4.5 billion Swiss francs per year, although very, very subtly expanded and not only from the budget is invested in megaprojects. If transversals are built by the Alps as tunnels, then there is cross-financing from the road. There is a comprehensive truck toll in Switzerland. The money is used to make the Swiss railway fit. What do we have, Mrs Minister – I ask you as a transport politician, as well as your predecessors: We have an unfair relationship. Every freight train pays for every kilometre on the train use fee. The truck pays on the motorway, otherwise nowhere, just outside the normal taxes. These are imbalances. We also need a comprehensive truck toll in Austria, so we get money to improve public infrastructure and not to build giant tunnels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Maier, I almost admire – ironically I have to say that – your argument with billions of investments. It was your colleagues, it is your colleagues, it was colleague Kukacka et cetera, who has put a construction program on the budget, so to speak, on the nose, where you are now somehow passing on the black Peter to the red minister. I think that's really unfair. And who else is behind the construction program? – It’s not just Kukacka and Consortia, no, it’s not just the Strabag, the Porr et cetera, no, it’s their own country leaders. Go through it! Haider then in Carinthia, in Styria before Klasnic and now Voves. In Tyrol we have a number of national leaders, the golden rail in the Unterinntal. They are constantly demanding billions of investments to cut tapes. It is simply about the flooring, Mrs. Minister, and it was really very bright, as you have put it at the centre. It's really about the cuttings, it's about the tapes. At least it's not about the pendlers! Those people who really need the ÖBB daily need proper schedules, well-known customer information, attractive waiting situations, attractive vehicles. We need regional routes. So we need the supply services to the high-performance lines. We do not need a board of directors to silver the properties of the ÖBB, such as Huber, who may have had an advantage personally. We don't need a board of directors like Pöchhacker, who has double-golded the finish to this head of the ÖBB. Not only pay-in-payments, not just bonuses, No, there is still a little bit to it, namely, a right to speculation gains. Mrs. Minister, this is also your political construction site. You have to intervene once.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5100	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5121	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I may start with a question: Mr. Bucher, are you regular train drivers? - Probably not. Then I would say that actually the current hour bears the wrong name, because you're not going by train. Mr Maier, very briefly to your remarks. [[Abg. Petzner: Too intellectual!]] - I think so, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It already seems to me to be an enormous one on this issue in this House. I should like to point out that there is a regular six-year plan to finance the infrastructure, which is also called a framework, which always needs permits from two ministries, the BMVIT and the Ministry of Finance. And both ministers are signing this framework plan, including your Minister! If you do not communicate yourself in your own party, this is your problem, but not the problem of the Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! 42 200 railers provide daily service. The operation is maintained for 24 hours. I am defending myself with all my determination against evasion of these 42 200 colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bucher, your system of mending is simply to become a Swammerl! I'll tell you some up-to-date data so you can see how you're evading this company. In the first half of the year: operating profit 256 million €, plus 11 percent on the previous year! That's not a bad business! Take note of this! Estimated annual result – now becoming You're making eyes, Mr. Bucher: operating profit € 406 million, that's plus 600 percent last year! And I will also explain to you why this is so much more: because last year the huge amortizations made by your Director-General Huber – which you ordered, all the Gorbach orders! – that your head of the financial company Söllinger has been instigated to the detriment of the Group! [[Abg. Booker: Ours?]] 600 million! That's going to be You can't dispute, Mr. Cot. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: You lead the company! You're the Director-General!]] In addition, in your government participation period, in seven years we used seven Federal Ministers plus two State Secretarys. Ladies and gentlemen, it was already time that the ÖVP had to send a caretaker to Gorbach, because he was in reality already uncontrollable. This is also the product at the ÖBB. Please note, Mr Bucher: The 2003 structural reform has been a single disaster for the company! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: What about the service contracts?]] You made it! You made it, Mr. Bucher! This system is now exploding, and in this explosion all the scandals of the past are coming out! Now, Mr Bucher, I come to your evasion, too, and we want to address it. They have a strategy that is, in fact, transparent. You have such problems in your own home, at home in the party, that you logically need to look for an outside enemy. I understand that to a certain extent I would also like to follow you, Mr Bucher. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: BZÖ – Alliance Zocker Österreichs!]] But if you start compromising colleagues... – Listen to me, just be quiet! [[Abg. Bucher: You said the service contracts are not all right!]] I'm telling you, you confused union and employee representation. Staff representation is a democratically elected body. And now you listen closely to: 92.2% of colleagues voted in social democracy a few months ago. They know where the enemies are sitting. They're sitting there! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] This is a vote you would like to see, Mr Bucher. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In Moscow they also chose the KPdSU!]] For your savings in the infrastructure. By the way, it is agreed in the government programme that we are making an infrastructure offensive, an investment offensive. Mr Bucher, if you want to save on the infrastructure: Here you make yourself and say: too much indebtedness, but 5,1 billion € costs the coral tunnel. It's relatively simple: Let's not build it, and we saved € 5.1 billion. But you don't want to. At the same time, you are criticizing the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs for the delay in investment. [[Abg. Grosz: Because they cut the means!]] Mr Bucher, you have put a “master’s achievement” here on the parquet and shown how not to do it. [[Abg. Booker: Don't talk such nonsense!]] For one thing, I'm still looking for you: Don't mention the word BAWAG anymore, please! You actually have a problem in Carinthia, that is, Hypo Alpe Adria. Since yesterday it is clear that €18 billion is missing, as I saw in the “Report”. Don't talk about the BAWAG anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5312	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5339	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! – How would it be if the gentlemen were to make up for this later so that we could still come to the important issues?- Oh, my God! We have heard that the 2003 Railway Reform is criticised. To this end, it may be necessary to recall that in 2003 we implemented this railway reform in the Schüssel government, but the Swiss and German Railways started to do so already in the mid-1980s. [[Call the SPÖ: Where is the bowl?]] If you were in charge, you could have started with it much earlier, then we would be better there today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mrs Bures, and Mr Haberzettl, too, meant that we would desert the 40 000 staff of the ÖBB. Yes, please, the 40,000 staff members of the railway are responsible for delays in there being dirty trains that there are trains that even fail? Are they to blame for the fact that in some regions, such as Schärding, there is a quick train and three regional trains that are overcrowded, because the train is not flexible enough to pick up these people, commuters, who are commuting to Linz – or that there is only one train in the evening that is supposed to transport all people back home, and that people who may want to work longer can't use any more trains at all? Are the employees to blame for all this? - No! This is the responsibility of management, and the political responsibility is to be questioned here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Bures, on your statement that there is no friendly economy with the SPÖ in the Federal Government, I can only say that this is not right in many areas, such as the ÖBB, for example; it has been the case with BAWAG, we have seen it. Mr Haberzettl, if you always say that we should not address the BAWAG: What do you want to cover up, please? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Don't be angry with me, the BAWAG was the classic example of SPÖ-Friendly Economy! Let's look at Vienna: the main station. The ÖBB is doing what it wants on Vienna's floor – the mayor of Vienna, Häupl, is watching. There is no transport concept, there is no metro connection, and it is quite easy for the districts around the main station, a single disaster. Today we have heard that the money is being reworked from one project to another, only so that it can be passed over and implemented a completely inappropriate concept, which no one brings, but only costs money. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] If you say so again and again today, you too, Mr Haberzettl: We don't want to desert anyone at all. But, please, who do you want to explain that a train worker with 52 years of age can retire? [[Abg. Haberzettl: Your law from 2003! You made the law!]] Who would you like to explain this if we always discuss that so many people with 60 or 61 are going to retire? Do you want to explain that to those who have been donated for decades and who have not found any customer kindness at the ÖBB? You want to explain this to them? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] This is really doubly, and this shows me that you have already fully approved of the staff representation. Finally, just so that we can recall this again: They always call for an operational data protection officer to be implemented in Austria, where we say we want to do so at European level. In the private sector, there are many companies operating in many European countries. I can tell you that you could have fulfilled your responsibility very well, but we do not need to introduce additional data protection officer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] No, Mrs Silhavy, I do not need to agree at all, I am not at all responsible for the collection of health data from employees at the ÖBB and for the employees to be stifled on what disease they have, how often and how long they are on illness. And since you cannot escape responsibility, Mr Haberzettl and staff representatives cannot say that they are not responsible for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5442	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5464	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, after the scenes of a marriage, you could have almost said, you could get the impression, at the ÖBB and at the SPÖ everything is on track. But de facto, in reality, it looks like we're more involved in a passenger service. It is not all satisfied, it is not all in the best order, as one might in part get the impression from the words. There are at least three groups that say daily, there's something wrong, we're dissatisfied. Let's start with the most important ones for a business, the customers. Increasingly higher prices, fewer trains, some dirty or outdated equipment, and if you drive at times when the students or the commuters drive, then you have to be happy when you get a seat – usually it is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even the Chamber of Workers – and this is not really in suspicion of being a free-forward organization – believes that strike plans are a false signal and calls for improvements for the commuters. – So we are far away from the jubilant marches, but we are rather close to the protest marches. The second group, which is not satisfied, is the employees. From this point of view, I really have to thank them most warmly for their tireless use. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are friendly, they are service-oriented and very, very convenient. But let's be honest! – who enjoys working in a company that can be found monthly, if not weekly in negative headlines in the media? [[Abg. Heinzl: And who does that?]] But this does not do the Freedom Party, but it does the management! And the ÖBB staff must do away with what is being done by management! To the ÖBB staff representatives or to Mr Haberzettl: If the ÖBB employees see all these mistakes made daily by the management, and of course all that does not become public at all, and if they see that there is nothing left out at all, then you really don't need to wonder if the employees react to it with a disease! But no one knew anything about this problem with the sick person: not Mr Haberzettl as a staff representative or trade union, nor as a Supervisory Board – and this, although in the “profile”, in “NEWS”, was reported in the “FORMAT” and so on! There you have to ask yourself – if Mr Haberzettl does not even know that –: What does Haberzettl do in all these functions?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Haberzettl, you have not managed that the simple and small ÖBB employees receive a decent and above all motivating wage and that there is a slim and proper management of the ÖBB! In this context, it is also embarrassing that the ÖBB has made this list – as it was discovered this spring – publicly available. And now to the third group, namely to the taxpayer, who quite correctly realizes that there is something going on, yes, that sometimes even things slip. And in this context, as it were, an extra “Gustopückerl”: the route Villach–Venice, in which new investments were made. And what is the “success ”? – This connection is reduced to a train, to a direct connection! Further: The construction of the Koralmbahn costs 5,1 billion € as it was already heard today – but the Linz–Graz fast train connection will be removed for a few thousand euros! And if we're already at the Linz–Graz connection, where there's also a very "fine" planning: Due to the Linz–Graz express train, it is not possible for the commuters to come in the opposite direction with a proper regional express link from Linz to Kirchdorf or even further south or reverse! The ÖBB have a plan that is even worse than the AUA. And that was bad enough. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now for the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel. There is currently absolutely no planning certainty. The costs are exploding almost weekly, but it is to be the ÖBB's image and heart project. – Mrs. Bures, as long as there is uncertainty about planning, should not be made a priority project, for that is the real threat of chaos. So it is by no means all right, because there are some blackmail artists, but unfortunately not solution artists at work. But what would be necessary would be a management with solution expertise and not with displacement expertise or with – as we have already had it – Nehmerkompetenz! Mrs Bures, but also Mr Haberzettl! Take the time and drive on a Monday morning with a pendulum train! Enjoy the “comfortable” atmosphere on the train instead of just driving your van! Do this – and then you'll see what's in it all! If you also take a train from Vienna to Bregenz, you will see how many problems there are! Mrs Bures, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, concluded a recommendation from me: Take up dung forks and brooms and clean up, pick up – otherwise the voters will clean up! And it makes it a little more radical, as the elections in Vorarlberg and Upper Austria have shown. Because it can be that one of your comrades misses the train and stays behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5545	Next speaker: Mr Grosz, for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5567	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very grateful to Mr Ferry Maier for his statement, because it has, as it were, become aware that this current hour is of great importance with our BZÖ theme proposal, because we now know – and I quote, Madam President – that parts of social democracy and thus parts of the Austrian Federal Government also consist of “sandlers” and “tachinians” – quote Ferry Maier. – But that’s what a majority of Austrians have felt for more than three years when they look at the Federal Government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Haberzettl, you are going out here to speak and talk – and I have to say that I think you are suffering from pathological refusal, because what you say about this... – pathologically means sustainable and sick. [[Abg. May. Worm: What? ‘Pathological Reality Refusal’?]] There is no call for order, Mrs Colleague, for this to happen! That's all right. What appears to the Austrian Federal Railways – such as this illegal setting up of health data – is a scandal similar to that in the Federal Republic of Germany in other companies, where this led to withdrawals and criminal proceedings against managers. This scandal at the ÖBB is unique in Austria, dear Mrs Bures. And that is what you have to answer, not Mr Kukacka, not Mr Gorbach, nor Mrs Forstinger, and how they all might be called, but you alone! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You alone, Mrs Bures, are also responsible for the revision report on the award of container trucks – a scandal that we were able to reveal two weeks ago. This revision report is available to you, Minister. The Group's own revision has stopped an award procedure because you and your red friends have been transferred to the friendly economy! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The head of the Group's purchase, Walter Eschbacher, whom you, Mrs. Federal Minister Bures, wanted to order as head of the entire ÖBB Group purchase, has been transferred to the fact that he wanted to give his friend a contract on containerlifters, with which he has broken all the tender laws of that Republic. – That's how you Sodom and Gomorrah look at the ÖBB, dear Mrs Bures! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The third point, something that also upsets us Steirer, is that you, Mrs. Minister, are alone in a time when the politics in which experts are thinking about ecologizing, are thinking about how to transport more people by public transport, so to speak, the railway connections Graz–Linz, Graz–Innsbruck and Graz–Marburg are doing without replacement! They are therefore permanently damaging the economic location in the south of Austria by removing important rail connections! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Graz is cut off from the environment!]] In Sunday's speeches, however, you always praise their importance and talk about the importance of ecologizing as a very special task of the ÖBB! These railway connections are in favour of such revision reports, where you can see that millions of euros will be thrown out to make you and your friends a better life for party and regiment costs! We're not playing at the BZÖ! Mr Bures, Minister of State, It does not at all express itself, namely the construction of the coral tunnel. In June of this year, the head of state of Carinthia Gerhard Dörfler and I in Styria said that you, Mrs Bures, are planning to take €594 million from the Koralm financing without replacing it or to move it to 2018. Gerhard Dörfler and I warned all summer and showed that this shift means that the entire framework plan and also the projecting of the Koralm Tunnel will no longer be kept in place, and that therefore jobs are still at risk in this economically difficult time. Of course, businesses in the South Styria, in Carinthia, in Wolfsberg, in Germany, in Leibnitz, have specifically settled in Graz-Umgebung, because they were able to expect the Koralm Tunnel to be finished in 2018 and thus to be able to connect to these important railway axes. But what are you doing, Minister Bures? – They simply postpone the payment of € 594 million, which has been packed and for which there is a contract between Captain Jörg Haider and Chief of State Waltraud Klasnic, to 2020! Today or yesterday came You're on it: Yes, yes, the geology of the mountain; there you need a few years more! At the height of an economic crisis, at the height of an economic lumbar, Mrs Bures, you are carrying out targeted job destruction – at a time when we need every job! That's not what we're going to do with the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I am telling you, Mrs Minister, and also Mr Haberzettl: Free the ÖBB from your hostages and instead go to the ghost track in the future, because you are better removed!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5661	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5683	Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I have to say: I am shocked by this debate, which is because it is the policy that should, in particular, the government parties or a particular government party, be concerned with the fact that a public institution such as the Bundesbahn works. [[Abg. Rädler: Yes, that's exactly what it's all about!]] Yes, it should work, and the ÖBB should make a significant contribution to meeting the challenges of climate change also in Austria. And the Bundesbahn should also make a significant contribution to the fact that in Austria we are not talking about the reduction and closure of public transport, but about the expansion of public transport. [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes, let's do it!]] That is what we want, ladies and gentlemen, to do. But what you have done, what Mr Maier has done – we also criticise the ÖBB, where they deserve it, but you, Mr Maier, together with Mrs Bures, bear the responsibility for the work of this company – by coming out here with a disadvantage card from the ÖBB, I must say: That's a contribution that this company certainly can't work in the future if you only have one for the ÖBB: that they should lock the best and not work. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I learned from journalism that one should ask: what, when, who, where, why. Let's go through some questions! What is this for a policy, and who is responsible for the fact that the ÖBB has been sending thousands of ÖBBlers in early retirement every year for years, that the average retirement age at ÖBB has been around 52 years – I emphasize: at 52 years! – is it? I'll tell you: I remember exactly – you may not be able to remember anymore; Keywords: Amnesia, memory wound – as Mrs. Riess-Passer said out here in 2002 or 2003: The largest criminal case of the Second Republic, the scandal of the ÖBB, is early retirement, and we, the Black and Blue Federal Government, do something about it! What was the consequence? – The number of early retirements at ÖBB continued to increase in the following years in 2003/2004, which is dramatic. But there was black and blue quiet. Why did this happen? But don't tell this story! The reason for this was: They wanted to throw the people out! They have no interest at all in the question of: What does it take for 40,000 people to be employed meaningfully? Why do we need 40,000 people? - Because we want to have a public traffic! Because we want to expand public transport and not restrict it! However, they were concerned only with: If the ÖBB is to be made ready for stock exchange, then these officials must be out, then we can't need it, because there is as little as possible for the stock exchange bureau and, above all, officials! Nothing you have done to actually make the company fit for the tasks for which it should actually be there! You did nothing, but on the contrary: The real estate you carried out of the ÖBB, everything you've ruined! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] The managers of the ÖBB have only enriched themselves over the years at this company. – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen: They have only enriched themselves, were one, two years there and then left the company again with finishes! [[New appeal to Greens and SPÖ.]] We have had more than enough of that in recent years, and the people in Austria, including the staff at the ÖBB, are already standing up to the neck, which was driven here. And every week, an eggbuck bursts up, not only as far as the ÖBB is concerned, but also as as regards your “deservable” activity in recent years, where you have ruined one public operation after another and actually given up on the ruin. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have been sitting in every government since 1986, and whenever it comes to taking responsibility, you have not known anything. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] You don't know anything about anything – but you do rule! And this is the difference, ladies and gentlemen, that we also demand responsibility from a government, namely from every government party!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5789	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. [[10:24:35]] Discussion on objections to the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5810	We shall now proceed to the announced debate on the objections to the agenda of Members Dr. Rosenkranz and the objections to the agenda of Members of Parliament. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen. In the joint debate held pursuant to § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I first of all limit the speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers per club to 3 – regardless of a club agreement, which is also in place in the meantime. Mr Rosenkranz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. I can only blaze after 5 minutes; I only draw attention to it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5837	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today's agenda contains under points 6 to 8 a revision of the foreign law, in particular the Asylum Act, the Foreign Police Act and the Settlement and Residence Act – another Fleckerl more in an inconspicuous flickwork of the Tourism Law building site. Left-wing rallys in front of Parliament today and numerous inscriptions in the last few days show how interested the population is in this issue. We liberals consider the parliamentary debate on this core area of preventing illegal immigration and the abuse of asylum to be so important that we want to hold this discussion before interested citizens on television. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is all the more so than one learns from the media that there is to be an intensification. Well, intensification, that's relative: Estragon mustard is also called sharp, although there are exorbitant increases. And finally, such an estragon mustard wants to introduce us to the Minister of the Interior today. However, in the area of asylum fraud and illegal immigration, the demands for freedom lie in the area of Cayenne pepper, Chile, Tabasco and cherry pepperoni. That would be the sharpness with which these abuses would have to be addressed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We would have liked to inform citizens in detail during the television period of what an intensification à la ÖVP looks like: Criminal shin-syl-threaters, who, for example, as drug dealers in whose home countries are also threatened with severe punishment, are not allowed to be postponed, as it is so beautifully said, are now being tolerated, receive a ID card and then, as a reward, the work permit and then perhaps the claim to be able to stay with us under the local law. [[Abg. Amon: This is not a contentious debate! This is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] So now it's like this: It is illegal and not detectable, without documents, from Nigeria, Iran or Iraq to Austria, that asylum proceedings fail, because there are no grounds for asylum, and the end of the procedure threatens to be committed, and one can stay there. – This is the “sharpen” of the ÖVP on asylum issues! The key issues: How do I close Austria's borders in the Schengen area before Scheinasylwerbern?, How do I make Austria uninteresting as a dream destination for asylum seekers?, these crucial questions remain unaffected, for example through the end of the money allocations towards issues. Similarly, the question remains unanswered: How will the registered life partnership become, starting from 1. Let's say that January is supposed to have an impact on the law of establishment? Will the asylum seekers be more homosexual in the future to cover up such a residence permit? After the shone and the sham adoption, now comes the apparent life partnership. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] We must negotiate these issues in the general public, we must not negotiate them because the Federal Minister for Education and Art has an appointment outside at 12 o'clock, at a time when this general public is no longer given, because that would be the interesting things!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5898	Next, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e5919	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, in general terms, how the government and the ministers deal with this House or what this House can do, and therefore the debate on the Rules of Procedure. It really cannot be – and I am speaking to you now, Madam President, because you also have to represent this House – that ministers in the run-up to parliamentary meetings choose which days and at which time their law comes. I mean, where are we? We are an independent, self-confident Parliament. We set the agenda – and not the ministers! And you have to make this clear to the ministers, Madam President. If a minister wishes to see what is happening today, for example, that we are discussing school stories at the beginning of the meeting, because she – and that was the reason – has a lecture at the Industrial Association in the evening, then this is not an argument for an excuse. The Minister then has to be there when Parliament calls her – and not if she chooses it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We believe that we should, of course, lead the debate on foreign law and asylum law at a prominent time tomorrow at the beginning of the debates, and therefore we have requested that this matter be removed from today's agenda and put it at the beginning of tomorrow's agenda, because it – and Mr Klubobmann Cap will certainly give me the right to do so – concerns one of the most central areas of the population. You yourself say now restlessly: We've seen the problem! That's what Mrs Rudas says, Mr. Cap. Now, after many years, you've recognized the problem, you say. Why Make Do you, then, agree that this issue of law, this important discussion in the afternoon or in the evening will be relocated and relinquished? Why Make You are not with us: that we are discussing this at a prominent time so that the people of this discussion can also follow in order to understand the views of the individual parties accordingly? That would be your job, too, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! But I understand. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, now say to all the yes and Amen – in the truest sense of the word – what the ÖVP tells you. They have now taken up the role of the ÖVP member party. This is your right to exist. Don't you notice that people have problems? “The fear reigns at the eastern border” recently entitled the “Kronen Zeitung”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The “Kronen Zeitung” rules at the eastern border! It's much worse!]] People are afraid because, as it were, an industry has already developed, so to speak, where criminals are brought with trucks, transporters across the open border, so that they can break in with us, steal, steal houses, steal cars and lighten our population, and then be taken back. To that end, we say: No, no, no, The only answer to this is – and there is absolutely right for our partyobmann, and we will now also ask for it for the population in the border regions, but also for the population in Vienna – at least temporarily to close the borders and suspend the Schengen Treaty for the next half year. That is what we shall call for, ladies and gentlemen, [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Only a controlled border, only a closed border can at least open up the opportunity to make the criminals, the thieves' gangs and all who come to us and commit criminal acts at the borders. But what you are doing is a completely different way – also with the new legislation; They apparently don't know what's inside –: They pardon foreign crime by defining the concept of criminality for asylum seekers and asylum seekers, namely, from the date when an asylumant has to leave the country due to the crime, he has to be postponed with the severity of the offence, and divide it into national jurisdiction and district jurisdiction. Do you know what that means? – In the future, theft, body injury, and the need for asylumers to be regarded as a criminal offence only in the recurrence case and can only be initiated in the recurrence case of a deportation procedure. – This is an invitation to criminality in this country for foreigners! And we strongly reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They create the term “punished offenders. ” What's that? – Suddenly, criminals who become criminals here are allowed to work with us, are treated quite normally, are tolerated. After all, they have decided on a package of arrests to release hundreds of thousands of foreigners in advance and simply send them away, who are coming back to Austria immediately and are going back to crime here. They pardon crime here – and also asylum abuse! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Then: Follow-up requests are still possible. Professor Raschauer said it in the hearing: In the following case, it should in principle be suspect that it applies exclusively to the delay because a procedure is already being concluded. I'll tell you: End of follow-up proposals! If there is a genuine deportation notice, then it must be carried out and then one cannot make follow-up requests again and again. [[New call for tender May. Korun]] You have to end this displeasure at last! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What you're doing is systematic residence confirmation for criminal foreigners. We have caught you, and that is why you want to postpone the debate in the evening so that no one gets involved that this law is a slutting, a hush-fush law, which in truth does not solve the real problems. That's why we say: Back with this law – either in the Committee to renegotiate it, or in the tomorrow session to hold a debate on it at the beginning of the agenda, also under scrutiny by the population. – This is our concern, and we will try to enforce it!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6017	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. I would like to draw your attention once again: I'll set the clock the way you agreed, that is, 3 minutes. I'll have to run out after 5 minutes. This is an agreement between the political groups that have been drawn up.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6041	Madam President. High house! Because of the excitement of my predecessor Westenthal, I request that he be given the “Iffland-Ring” for special acting performances, because that is absurd: They are doing so formally, as if we were not going to deal with the question of foreign law and asylum at all. That's not true! It is only about whether we allow you to play against each other the issue of “child money” and the issue of “Ending Abuse in Asylum Law”. That's all this is about. If you come out here and assume that there would be – I quote – a “invitation of crime” in Austria, then I must say: Such an absurdity! What is being tried here is to find, on the basis of human rights and fundamental rights – and to do so, we will not drop a millimeter of it – in this area regulations where there are no back doors where there is no abuse, nothing like that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] That's what it's all about! And to criminals, no matter whether foreigners or foreigners, the same right will be applied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm telling you: They will also have to take note, in accordance with constitutional law: No mercy with criminals! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do you pardon it?]] But I also say: If someone's been broken in, whether it's in the car, in the apartment or in the family house – and I'm saying: Every burglary is too much, and it must be fought for that there is more security and more police; in Vienna is running a signature campaign that already has 70,000 signatures, where it says: 1,000 more police officers for Vienna – then it is not that the one who has been broken into it then says: I have been broken in!, but then the question is: Was it a resident or a foreigner? In the case of a national, it is said: Swamm over there, we're not going to the police!, but in a foreigner it says: Here I go to the police! - That's absurd! It has the police, it has the Republic with our taxpayers to ensure that there is security. That is the decisive! Security means: Fight against every invasion, fight against every criminal that is all the same before the law, and if a criminal is and is sentenced, then he is sentenced, and one will come to prison and the other will be postponed. – That’s so simple! Don't do anything in there! That's why I think: Today's agenda item 1: Teaching, Matura, about the future of our children. That is the first item on the agenda. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tomorrow we want it!]] And tomorrow item on the agenda 1: Children's money. That is the first point. – Play Don't ask each other to discuss the issues!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6118	Before I give the next speaker the floor, I ask the club members to come to me and for this purpose interrupt the meeting for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6147	I'll start the interrupted session again. Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). As announced earlier, I put the clock at 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6177	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we already have to think about the importance of this Parliament and that we are required to do everything we can to ensure that this Parliament is in line with what we all want. It cannot be – and this is an example of how to deal with Parliament, including from the government parties – that requests are constantly postponed in committees. The opposition requests, which are also really good applications, will not be rejected, they will be postponed. [[Call the SPÖ:Who says that?]] For example, at the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets, many requests are simply adjourned. Or in the case of investigation committees: Ministers must not be loaded, for that could be Your Majesty's policy. – Is this our confidence in Parliament? Or the presence of ministers at parliamentary meetings: Not only today, at many meetings, it is so that the government bank is quite empty! Now to the specific occasion: Mrs. Federal Minister! Parliament has every understanding that a minister can also have an appointment that is indispensable, urgent and essential for the well-being and pain of our home country Austria. But if it is a matter of having an agenda after an appointment at the Industrial Union – which I very much appreciate – then that is the wrong way! Madam President, several times the members of the Federal Government have asked to take it into account, and it has done so again from this specific occasion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, trust in you has already been affected. You remember the dispute with the teacher union, you remember the accusations that you were responsible for the decline of the municipal credit and that you still had a high settlement. I would like to ask you very urgently to ensure that in your political work, you not only put the work in your hands but also to ensure that dates in Parliament are strictly respected that Parliament's agenda cannot be set by date at the industrial association. And I would ask you, Madam President, once again to draw the attention of the members of the Federal Government to the fact that what is happening here has the highest priority.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6217	Deputies! All that is agreed at the presidential meeting is binding on me, and therefore, of course, the members of the Federal Government will be informed of this once again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But they don't stick to it! You're going to the Industrial Union rather than Parliament!]] Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6248	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, foreign law and asylum law are extremely important materials, but family support is also extremely important, and education issues are enormously important – and I could continue to list them. It makes no sense to play the meaning of agenda items against each other! We must have one agenda, and it is natural that one point after another is dealt with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] It's not supposed to be interpreted all the time: This has now been regarded as more important because it is first and the second is perhaps not so significant. That's nonsense, that doesn't bring us any further! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is always the case! It's always like that!]] However, we have good instruments in this House to distinguish – on the one hand, between debates in which we are often very different, and on the other hand, the business needs, and among them also the finding of an agenda. This is what our club directors, all five, are doing in advance: In a very good, consensual way, these are very often put together and find solutions as preparation of the decisions we club members have to meet with the three presidents later in the presidency – or at least here in the House. But what happens now? – We had found a solution, including for the agenda. Okay, there were two parties or, in particular, one that did not want this order; at the end of the day, we could find no consensus over all five parties, but still over a large majority, to make the agenda the way it is today and tomorrow. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... "treams" that to that...!]] Now it is also so, as it always depends on when television is, that we are so fair and even all five parties get the same speaking time during the television season. By way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, this is a welcome from the larger parties to the smaller ones. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Such a thing of superiority!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] You've got to hold on to that! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a law!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a superiority...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening now is the following: We have here a signed agreement – signed by all five club directors – on the distribution of the speaking time during the television broadcast. And now the BZÖ, Mr. Klubobmann's deputy Westenthaler, goes back in the brief presidential meeting and says: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because we want to discuss this!]] This paper is not worth anything! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We want to discuss that! You don't want to discuss this!]] The signature of the BZÖ club director is not worth anything that doesn't interest us. We do not adhere to agreements that have been reached, even with signature. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We adhere to the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Westenthaler! If we turn into this form of formal cooperation, then – we do not need to be of an opinion on content, but on the rules of this House at least one thing should exist – you endanger the parliamentary debate in this House, and that is objectionable. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We adhere to the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (the front page of the “Kronen Zeitung” with the headline “The fear reigns at the eastern border”) People are afraid! Then say something about it! That's foreign law! Say something about it!]] Follow the agreements and show character!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6435	Next, Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6456	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mr Kopf, you cannot, of course, now come out and say that it is objectionable if the BZÖ makes use of a business law law – Mr Kopf, Rules of Procedure! [[Abg. Head: (a document holding to height) Signature! Signature!]] – What does “signature” mean? In the Rules of Procedure it is clearly stated, Mr Kopf,... – The Rules of Procedure, Mr Kopf, and that is not a concession from you, which is not a alms of majority groups, but a written right, and you too will have to stick to it. [[Abg. Head: Do you know what agreement means?]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But it's clear to me, Mr. Kopf, what you want, because it's not like you're saying: Well, why not discuss the family or the lessons now? The Asylum Act, which is already important, can be discussed later. – Yes, of course, you can discuss all of this at some point, but it is a bit transparent now that you try to get the pressure from the people with a placebo to get the wind out of the sails, with an asylum law that you act as if you were to solve the problems as the population demands of you. Then, of course, it is clear that the debate is better moved to midnight and that there is no way for the population to be able to follow the exposure of this placebo via TV. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice pass.]] This is, in fact, the background to how this agenda has been defined. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Cap, you said it: It's trying to do something. – But we do not need any attempts, but we need real actions, and you have still not solved the serious problems with this novel to the asylum law! The principle that if a person abuses the right to asylum here, for example, by becoming a criminal offence to terminate the asylum procedure and is to be postponed, is still not clarified. There must be a clear principle here, but it will not be enforced again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Twice someone can steal – twice!, this is a free letter for body injury, for necessity, for dangerous threat – and he can still be in existence in Austria correspondingly temporary, very comfortable with the corresponding support of all of us. We've seen it again: There comes a truck to Austria with a few dozen Kurds – towed; they probably paid a thousand euros to the tractors – and these are shipped to Traiskirchen: Traiskirchen, without any supervision. And you hear and marvel: Where are these Kurds after a few hours? - You've disappeared! There was great wonder: Yeah, they didn't report to the morning apple. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Where are they supposed to report? – They are written exactly by the tractor organisations, just as those who want to misuse asylum law are written by lawyers and alleged auxiliary organizations, how they can abuse these laws! We want to put a bar on this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is a need for appropriate monitoring where there is a corresponding suspicion of abuse. The third state clause, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear law: It is valid right that if someone comes from one of our neighbouring countries to Austria, the procedure must be carried out in that country. There is nothing we need to review, but this asylum-seekers must be brought to this country! Subject to chain requests: If someone is persecuted when someone is threatened, he will of course present all his arguments immediately. And if he does not put in the new argument until his first request is rejected, then it is clear that something is wrong here! – There are no amendments to this law either. This abuse of asylum is not only so objectionable because it endangers security in our country, but also because it abuses the right of those who really need it, because these procedures are being withdrawn because the administrative apparatus is overshadowed accordingly. This abuse is also an abuse against the really political, religious or racially persecuted, and you should take this seriously and really take concrete action, as we have always called for. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, it's nice that you're here now – I don't know if you might have had a breakfast with the Chamber of Workers, and now there may be another lunch with the union – but I'll tell you one very clearly and clearly: [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Stadler and Grosz]] We are here the People's Office, we are the legislator here, and this legislator, this People's Office has to be subordinated to the schedule of ministers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You know half a year in advance when these meetings are held, and perhaps you can postpone such important dates as a dinner with the Industrial Union, so that we can also make an agenda as it demands the people so that we can discuss security in this country and against asylum abuse in front of the people's eyes. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6579	Next word: Member of the European Parliament... [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek goes to the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is now? And you say we're chaots?- Oh, my God!]] On the Rules of Procedure: Member of the Commission. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6619	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Of course, we need to discuss the way in which agendas come about, but something else also needs to be discussed, namely, what handshake quality there is at all in this House, when part of the BZÖ says: Okay, we agree, we jointly regulate the time we can discuss on television so that it is as attractive as possible to the spectators!, this part of the BZÖ even signs it, and then another part of the BZÖ is incredibly excited that there is this agreement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one said that!]] Today in the early morning was the title of the current hour “The Chaos Drives Railway”. I can only say: The chaos is driving BZÖ, and I would like us to discuss this in the presidency, too, in the sense that we are at least holding to what we have jointly committed ourselves to in some form in writing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you have to make a request, because of the Rules of Procedure!]] I would like to make the request, at least in the Bureau, to discuss this in order to have something useful on television broadcast days for the people as well as for the audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6670	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6695	I would just like to say one thing: If the spectator and the supervisor think of their part, then that we should agree on the agendas most frequently where this is planned, namely in the presidential, and that the club directors have made it up – all five have signed it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because you're afraid...!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] And what the BZÖ is now responsible for is a chaotization here in Parliament. This is damaging to Parliament's image, because the spectators want to debate content and not the pains of a group that is slow to adopt from this House, namely the BZÖ. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] That is harmful to Parliament, what is happening here! This is a debate, not an obstacle, and it is not intended to make Parliament worse in this way. Follow the agreements, as does any other citizen and any other citizen!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6766	For business treatment: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6791	Mr Cap, you can save your excitement, because we have laws to discuss here, we have to represent the people here and not to argue about your Rules of Procedure here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is clear – and I ask you, Madam President, if this is already the subject of the Presidency, which is also defined – that binding agreements on the course of the meetings can only be made by Parliament and parliamentarians; Members of Parliament, such as the club directors or others, can make proposals, but decisions are made by the elected representatives. We must not be upset at this, but we must do exactly as these rules do, and there are no problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6833	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6857	In principle, it should be noted that the people would certainly have been interested in the fact that the debate on the really burning issue of asylum law took place at the time of television and could have been listened to and watched, that is why we have called up this debate today to debate it, but of course there are agreements that have been made and that one should stick to them. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... all this "conceals"...!]] Unfortunately, God's failure to comply with agreements in this House is always the case, for example, when it comes to agreements which have been made, that ministers are naturally to be invited to the Examining Committee, and that these agreements are not to be observed by the Government Party, but also when it comes to agreements that have been made in which club directors have pledged that we should give the time in the debate that we can define two speakers, and that is why the timetable we have set can then be observed – unfortunately, God's side of the BZÖ has not been respected today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They are also meaty!]] I believe that it is necessary, particularly in parliamentarism, that, when we are put together and agree upon agreements, they must also be observed at all levels and in all areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6905	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e6930	Madam President. High house! Two or three comments. First of all: What must the spectators at home think of the television screens of us when we deliver such debates to the living rooms instead of debate the matter? – We should be really ashamed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, please!]] Secondly, We have a law called the Rules of Procedure. That regulates how we deal with the debates with each other in an organisational way. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Right! § 50 para. 1! § 50 para. 1!]] In addition, there is a long tradition in this House that, if all five parties agree, on the basis of these Rules of Procedure, but different from that, other regulations can also be made. And such an agreement exists in order to deal with today's meeting, and on it are the signatures of all five club directors! [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is no more agreement! As long as the members of the government... there is no agreement anymore!]] Dear friends of the BZÖ! Ladies and gentlemen from BZÖ! The failure to comply with this agreement shows me two things: first, how you deal with your staff in the club – that is really incredible! – and, secondly, in general, that you cannot conclude agreements because you are not willing to comply with them. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – Shame You are!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7023	Before I see the next speaker, Mrs Magistrate. Korun, give the word, I hold down the following... [[Prolonged calls from Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – Perhaps Mr Westenthaler can listen briefly too. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, he can't!]] I would like to say that I am still convening a special presidial for today, because there are also meetings tomorrow and I, as President of the National Council, would like to know what I and what you will all be doing tomorrow. Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7073	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests on the gallery and in front of the screens! What the BZÖ and the FPÖ are planning with this objection debate is more than transparent: You want to spread out your poison in television time, contrary to the agreements also signed by your political groups, so that society is more divided so that they can trample on human dignity by a group of people, even more so than you do now. That's your only goal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Sit down!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's unheard of! This is about when something is discussed! That's not true at all!]] They are incapable of complying with the agreements in this House. [[Abg. Scheibner: You already misunderstand that! You should listen once!]] The papers you signed as political groups obviously do not apply to you. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should listen!]] And we've heard enough about the occasion. Of course, we Greens believe that ministers of this Republic, who have been announced the dates of the National Council months in advance, also have to comply with the dates of the House. It cannot be that the National Council is aimed at the calendar of ministers and ministers. The situation is still reversed, but this will change – at the latest after the next session. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been so many untruths of FPÖs and BZÖ-lers here in this new law, that you no longer know where you should actually start correcting. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Is this a green law?]] But I'm not going to try to correct in 3 minutes, because that's your system. Everyone knows that. You claim some untruths, you claim any things that are not in the law, and then the others should constantly stop correcting that and saying: [[Call the FPÖ:What?]] That's not true, that's not true. Instead, I will quote some so-called highlights, negative highlights, from this government template. It was a question of abuse here. – Yes, there is abuse: There is the abuse of parliamentarism, there is the abuse of elected ambassadors and female ambassadors to trample around the human dignity of a group of people and to declare asylum seekers and asylum seekers to be flat-rate liars and criminals. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's unheard of! Do you mean the greens? Do you mean the green parliamentarians?]] I'll tell you what the law novel brings. It brings a territorial restriction, which reads as follows: If I am accommodated as an asylum seekers in Traiskirchen and allow me to drive to Vienna to visit a lawyer or independent legal advice, I will be taken into custody and receive a fine of at least € 1,000! [[Abg. Pendl: We are in a debate!]] And then you're talking about "abuse"? Abuse is what you are doing here, under the cover of immunity as elected elected. More about this and content in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7232	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7254	Madam President. High house! First of all, a few remarks on parliamentarism. Mrs Korun, you can give this speech here in Austria – in Ankara you could not hold it! This is the value of parliamentarianism in Austria. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Korun: I am Austrian Members!]] Two of them: Parliamentaryism does not mean to me, Mr Head, that I have a minister on the agenda, just because she has a round of craftsmanship with any SPÖ section, and not that I am told by a club director or a club director whether or not I am allowed to talk. This is not parliamentarianism, take note! I am a freely elected Member and I still decide for myself, and I use the possibilities that the law gives me, and not what the ÖVP has just given me. – This is my third comment on parliamentarianism. And now I am telling the ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens why the coalition does not want to talk about this topic of Xenophobia novels: Because she doesn't want to talk about what her own country politicians said yesterday, Niessl in Burgenland, Pröll in Lower Austria: You should finally introduce border controls again! – When I requested this here half a year ago, there was a storm of indignation left and right in the house, at red and black – now the black Lower Austrian head of state demands and says he will make pressure at the Minister of the Interior Fekter. You don't want to discuss this if the spectator can watch, that's what you want to discuss at the ghost hour! They do not want to discuss Her own head of state, Niessl, says that border controls should be reintroduced at the border between Burgenland-Hungarian border and the Slovak border. You don't want to discuss this if the viewer can watch, that's what you want to discuss at the ghost hour! That's the reason. You wouldn't like to discuss it at all. Just because you force the Rules of Procedure that you need to discuss a little bit with the opposition, you have to do it at all – but that at the spirit hour, not if the viewer can see. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the background of this whole debate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, and it has also been shown yesterday in the EU Subcommittee of the Main Committee: You have an idea of liberalising the right of residence, because that is what the European Union wants! Do you know what the terms are? – The terms are there: dynamic immigration policy. There is a need to limit the competences of the Member States, including what is going on in the labour market. There a code of immigration is required, which is intended to make immigrants equal to Community citizens. This is the background of your efforts: Even criminals want to integrate into this country instead of pushing it off, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that has nothing to do with imagination, but that is what the citizen experiences out there every day. Or do you really believe that the Erwin Pröll now suddenly comes up with the idea of demanding border controls that the Erwin Pröll dreamed of what is happening in Traiskirchen, ladies and gentlemen? – Mass beatings – not between skinheads and foreigners, but foreigners among themselves, ladies and gentlemen, who do not tolerate themselves because they come to our country and do not think in a dream of complying with our laws, ladies and gentlemen, because here is a disproportionately high proportion of criminals among the asylumists. If you go out to the prisons of Austria, you will notice how many Chechens and Georgians are sitting in there, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the Austrians. There's something wrong with the proportions. Mrs Korun, have you checked this too? This is simply statistical material that speaks another language, which shows that we have disproportionately many asylum seekers, disproportionately many foreigners among the criminals. And that's a fact, ladies and gentlemen, you can't deny that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Have you, ladies and gentlemen, spoken with your comrade Fritz Knotzer about what is happening in Traiskirchen? I know Fritz Knotzer. He gave me pity years ago in the state government in Lower Austria and said: The foreign policy of my own party is so wrong, I can only do nothing – it is still under arrest in her social-Romantic, multicultural dreams. These social-Romantic, multicultural dreams result in you continuing to lose votes to FPÖ. You're right! [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] And as long as you continue to dream, ladies and gentlemen, you should continue to lose. The voters will give you the receipt for your social romance in the future with every single voice that is lost to you. But you're not supposed to think it's just the SPÖ. Meanwhile, these dreams are also dreaming of the ÖVP. The so-called Xenophobia novel is nothing but an integration novel for the integration of criminal foreigners, ladies and gentlemen, and all of this under Maria Fekter! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For this reason, Erwin Pröll knows what he says when he demands that, after the Dublin agreement, the asylum seekers who had lost nothing in Austria and had to be gone for a long time will also finally be postponed. – Not Ewald Stadler, but Erwin Pröll – rereadable in yesterday’s daily newspapers! Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something to you, which may also be a citational vote for you. The editor Wolfgang Fellner writes literally to your minister – I quote; I only quote this: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] “In response to the intrusion-tourists – as the intrusion shows – does not help any ‘sleeping’, no ‘plan square’, no ‘border room security’ and no more 200 police. This is Fekter-Pappap, which only makes voters more angry.”
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7370	Mr President, you have already markedly covered your 5 minutes. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. The objections of Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, are in the same way as Mr Rosenkranz's amendments, which is why I shall vote on them. I would like to ask those Members who want to take account of the objections, i.e. to withdraw Agenda items 6 to 9 from the agenda of the 40th, i.e. today's meeting, so that they may be included in the 41. Agenda items 1 to 4 may be negotiated to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[11:10:39]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7414	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7741	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 3357/J by the honourable Member, put to the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. Kogler, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on ‘System Grasser’ and the ÖVP’s will to clarify the efforts without delay, to deal with them urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7762	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that Mr Werner Neubauer has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the request 346/A(E) concerning the anchoring of Austria's defence function for the South Tyrol German and Ladin native language be limited to the 22nd. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will be taken after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7796	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3, 4 and 5, 6 to 8 and 10 and 11 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7820	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 122 minutes, FPÖ 108 minutes as well as BZÖ and greens per 95 minutes. For the duration of the TV broadcast by the ORF – from now on, I say – the following statement was agreed: a round of 8 minutes each, a member of the government 10 minutes, a round of 5 minutes each, another member of the government with 10 minutes, then a round of 4 minutes, a round of 3 minutes each for SPÖ and ÖVP and with 5 minutes for FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens and a speaker round with 2 minutes for SPÖ and ÖVP. That's a total of 130 minutes. Of these 130 minutes we are already missing 25 minutes. In other words, it will be to be discussed whether the last round is completely lost or whether the speaking time will be reduced again. Nevertheless, I would like to have this Framework Decision taken now, and I would also like to add that the President-in-Office will, before the end of the last round, distribute the speaking time for the political groups in such a way as to ensure that all political groups speak evenly in the television era. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:14:11]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (292 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Education Act (345 d.a.) 2. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (339, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the BIFIE Act 2008 (346 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on the Government Template (342 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Teaching Practice Act and the Exam Tax Act – Schools/Pedagogical Universities (347 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7893	We now come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. I put the clock, as agreed, at 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e7921	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economic crisis has also brought the issue of education to the fore, and this is a good thing, because investment in education policy is particularly important, since it concerns our young people, the future of our home country. And we should make all the necessary investments so that, after training in school, well-trained people can move into the professional process. Of course, the money has to be used properly in the field of education. And here there are massive concerns from our side, because this Federal Government is not ready for a large and comprehensive educational reform. You lack the courage and probably also the imagination. There is an old 68-year-old development that we can pursue, driven by SPÖ, but the ÖVP likes to take over it when it comes to the general school, where one tries to call it a new secondary school. But what does the overall school mean, which is your goal? – It means putting young people all on one level, on one level, and no longer putting out special talents of young people and accepting them for their weaknesses. I believe that it is necessary to proceed very differently here and not to force the entire school for the 6- to 14-year-olds. I think that would be a mistake, but this federal government is going exactly in this direction. They wonder about PISA results, but do not think that this can have something to do with the fact that we have an exorbitantly high proportion of children of non-German mother tongue in schools and there are some classes in the agglomerations in which out of 30 students in one class are only one, two, three children of Austrian. Do not wonder about a PISA study and its negative results when children are admitted to regular school, although they are not powerful in German! They do not act in this area and make the same mistakes as before. We believe that it is necessary for young people to be able to understand the German language before they can participate in regular school lessons. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is necessary for all children so that they will have a chance later, but this opportunity you refuse them. We have always called for the free kindergarten for Austrian citizens, without obligation, as you have laid down by law. We want this on a voluntary basis: the free kindergarten for Austrian citizens. But for those children with non-German mother tongues who hardly understand a word German in the fifth year of life, it does not make sense to go to the kindergarten so that they will receive care there, but will not learn the German language again. It would be useful to ensure a German preschool in order to learn German, how it is lived in Finland, where one learns the national language and is only then admitted to regular school. That is what we need, and we want to take care of it. From the student to the beneficiary of social assistance – this is the “carriers” that enable some young people today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From the student to the beneficiary of social assistance: Unfortunately, this is often a reality in our society, a “carrier”, which also makes ever more often Austrian children. If the teacher or teacher has to deal mainly with the language defects of children with migration backgrounds, then of course the level of education remains on the track, for all the children concerned. That is why we need to change something, and there must not only be a canning determination when it comes to limiting the class student maximum by 25. Today we still have school classes in Austria with 30 children per class. There I need a must-destination, and then there must be no class with more than 25 children per class! Then we need more classes of school, then we have to hire more teachers, who can also respond better to the children. Then we need a mandatory German preschool, and it is only then that children with a migration background are admitted to regular schooling when they understand the German language. And then we also need quotas from children with migration backgrounds of 20 to 30 percent per class, so that integration can also work. – You are unfortunately not ready for that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you now say that you have also introduced the mandatory free kindergarten year, I must tell you: This is not going to solve the problem. on the contrary, because only with one care you will not learn German. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's also the accusation we're making you. We have always taken clear positions on this issue. We want there not only to be a flicking work, as is the case today in the field of education policy. In principle, we welcome the introduction of the sub-central Matura, which has always been a liberal requirement, which we have always raised in our liberal programmes. In your bill, however, this new maturity test places more weight on the written part and less on the oral part. We think this is very negative, because at present three questions are asked per subject; in this new system, as you can see, pro Subject only asked a question. This is a wrong development, as the students need to improve, above all by word of mouth, in the field of communication. Or do we take the basic funding for the Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development: From 2010 to 2012 you make an increase of € 6.5 million to € 13 million, but these € 13 million would be necessary in other areas. They would be necessary and more useful if it were to make shifts in the areas I have described earlier, in order to reduce the number of students and increase the number of teachers. We should invest in these areas, not in a flicking plant, as is the case today. We experience cosmetics in individual areas, you're almost putting a flower pot in front of a broken window so you don't see the broken window. In principle, we need changes in our education system – no question. There is a need for a situation through which we in public schools ensure the principle of authority so that educational institutions do not live tolerance to drugs, alcohol or violence. Unfortunately, we need to experience God today, that in many areas will be seen away. Nor can it be that there are special desires regarding schooling, how they are repeatedly expressed by various beliefs – in the case of the Muslim community of faith. This has nothing to look for in public schools, but if, then, in private schools, as the other religious communities also live. The differentiated school system from the fifth school level must be maintained from our side. The FPÖ basically rejects the model of the entire school. This means that we are alone in this house, but at least the Austrian people know who they are looking for and who they can rely on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to ensure a real professional year at polytechnic schools, which is exactly what would be necessary. That is to say, this year is to be used in order to explain what professions there are, where there are opportunities and opportunities, so that not everyone enters the old career scheme and again only learns mechanic or hairdresser and in the end there is no work place. I say that our children are our future, because we want to invest, we have to invest, and there we have to take the wrong developments in the school sector very seriously. But I think – unfortunately show God Again today – that this is not important enough for you. You want to level everything down, you want to equal everything, and that certainly can't work in a sustainable society.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8057	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8080	Appreciate Mrs Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is unfortunate that not the educational experts of the Liberal Group first spoke, but the clubman. [[Abg. Strache: This shows the important topic!]] It is a pity to misuse this issue in order to make cheap foreign policy. The German skills are something that everyone wants, what everyone wants and what everyone wants to do for, so that the children can get German better and thus get better equipped into school. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] But what you have said in other areas is simply not worthy of a FPÖ. But if you represent this yourself and let the education politicians do so, it should be so. In reality, today is a day of joy in education policy. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Probably for the teachers!]] You know that very well, you just don't want to do it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: People dance on the street!]] It is indeed true that Claudia Schmied has a laborious struggle, and since I have been a member of this House – the last three years – she has done a lot of things step by step. I can remind you of that. I remember the start with the reduction of the high-level schooling. This is an important achievement, and those who work at school know how important it is, because the lower the number of students, the better the teachers can deal with our children. [[Abg. Strache: But no must determine!]] [[Abg. Strache: But in Vienna we have classes with 30 children and more! Where are the school classes with 25 children?! Tell the truth!]] The second important step was once again made ridiculous by you. It has not yet been found the final solution to early pedagogy, but it is very important that you take a first step. And it was set with the compulsory kindergarten year, which guarantees that all children come to school as well as possible. Further steps are needed here, but Claudia Schmied has succeeded in taking the first decisive step together with the coalition partner. This is a very important and decisive step! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Molterer.]] If you were to deal objectively with the matter, you would have to acknowledge that the reduction of groups in language education is also a decisive improvement and that there are improvements in the context of support education and the creation of education standards. In the future, we know where the children are to stand after the fourth class of primary school or the fourth class, what they can do, where they are picked up and how they are passed on. That is why what we are doing today – namely reorganising the Matura – is a logical continuation of the government's programme and Claudia Schmied's programme. And you should have said how important it is that we have these three new pillars, which give us not only reliability for the future, but also international comparability. One can rely that young people who make the Matura in us then also finish with a certain level, no matter what branch they have visited. This is an important prerequisite for the continuing training of our young generation. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Donabauer.]] I already know that the new Matura is an additional challenge for the teachers. But I am also convinced that they will be mastering this with Bravour, because the preparations are accordingly good and put on track. The decisive thing for me – I say that again and again, and this often falls under the table on quality issues – is the additional objectivity we produce with this new Matura. I experience it again and again, you may know it; there are national but also international investigations of teachers who are equally trained and who have been given the same article to judge. In the evaluation, there has been all the notes in the score scale of one to five for one and the same essay. This is also international, which is not an Austrian specification. That is why this objectivation is a very, very important step so that the children are not so much dependent on where and on who they were taught as well as that they know that there are very clear conditions. This is what the schools, but also the students, have to follow, and we have the certainty that these exams are also carried out objectively. Another point: Mr Strache, not only the political competitor, also mentioned it. It is always asked whether the Minister and the Social Democrats have an overall concept for the new school at all. What does the new school look like in 2020? Who, if not us, ladies and gentlemen, should know? [[Abg. Grosz: Who if not him?- Oh, my God!]] Why, after this troubled era of social democracy, did one give the class room in 2006? – Because one has known that there is the greatest need for reform here, there are great, decisive steps to be taken here. It is therefore quite important to focus on these things once again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can focus on some of the key points: I have already mentioned that early child and chance promotion is important for us. From the youngest child, the new possibilities of playful funding and demand are to be improved, and the mandatory kindergarten year was a first step in this direction. It is about new, creative forms of teaching, individual approach to the needs of children and about strengthening strengths and reducing weaknesses. And we can only do that if we put in place concrete measures, and they have already been set up in the form of smaller groups, smaller classes, expansion of language promotion and improvement of support education. It happened to me that the mother of a migrant child came and said she wanted the child to be helped and asked if I had the opportunity to promote the child. I said I have no resources, I can't do it. She said she'd like to clean up for two hours, and she'd be very happy to do it when her child gets promotion instruction. – This is not happening anymore. The fact that this is no longer the case in the field of folk and compulsory education is a result of the better means of funding that we have created. These things are to be seen, and you have to see them in an overall concept. You can't do everything at once, that's not possible, but these steps are all based on a clear conception. The next step is – and here we are completely contrary to the view that you are right – the most central challenge, and, apart from a few, in this case, the Liberal Group – I suppose, the entire and individual ÖVP colleagues – all have recognized the wrong way we are when we divide the ten to fourteen years old into four different groups. There is an expensive system with four different inspectors, the special school, now the New Secondary School, the primary school, the AHS sub-level. It is clear that with these resources that become free, optimal conditions for young people, optimal conditions for professional development, but also for the further development of schools, can be offered! And we'd have to use these. There's a clear model: That's the common school. We have to fight for them. And it is also worth fighting hard, fighting hard, but finally getting the best solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that we also discussed very successfully yesterday in the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee with the country experts on school autonomy. That will be the challenge of the future. I believe that we have opportunities to invest more strongly in school autonomous models, to find the way to overcome many of the bureaucratic obstacles that arise at present. There, too, there will probably be opportunities across all ideological boundaries to shape school in the way we want it for our children. But the time that has now come, ladies and gentlemen, is that one must finally follow the words deeds! I ask you to: Support our education minister – as the ÖVP has now begun to do – in her fight for a new, fair and more promising school! Let's take it together! Our children, our parents, our future deserved it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8231	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8253	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Mayer said: “Let’s do it together!” – The words I hear well, I alone lack faith; for if I think that this government has taken action to solve the big problems in the country, I must say: The problems remain large – in education, in health, in care, in debt, in foreign law, at ÖBB. And the construction sites have not become smaller, but they rest and are only brought back to life with some flicking work. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: In education they are specifically addressed! You know that!]] I do not think you have the courage or the strength to act together in a truly rapid and sustainable manner. I do not agree with you a good intention, but the actions in the overall concept are tossing and moving. Today's decision on a standardized maturity test cannot therefore be concealed from the fact that we have a construction site that is still there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We still have an expensive and inefficient education system, we still have about 90 percent of staff costs, which are burdening the teaching budget. We still have a private assistance problem. The costs rise annually to up to €160 million, and the cost contributions of the parents they have to make on-going for school education also continue to rise. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] And we have fragmented skills regarding the school-keepers. We have multi-party political pluralities with an inflated administration, and we have different human rights and service rights. With one word, ladies and gentlemen: The money is parked in a system and will hold back those who really need it. These are the children, these are the young people who have the right to best education and training. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But this money will also be saved from those educators who want to work with commitment and who still see their profession as a vocation. Today's decision on the so-called central matura or new matura will be taken by the BZÖ because it is a real step and because, in addition to the reduction in the number of students we have already decided here in 2006 under another government, in addition to the compulsory education year in the last kindergarten and a national education plan, this is another BZÖ requirement which is now being implemented. The introduction of the central matura, ladies and gentlemen, is a system change towards the review of core competences through central tasks. This central matura therefore means, in our opinion, more measurable quality criteria, but also more equal opportunities for children and young people. For us from the BZÖ, it is very important that the third pillar, the oral part-examination can be treated individually so that individual and location-specific priorities can be set. A second is – and we are voting on it today – that innovations must be evaluated and accompanied scientifically. That's right, that's good. And I think that BIFIE, our national educational institution, also has the appropriate framework to carry out this review and evaluation. For us at BZÖ, however, it is very difficult to understand that this will suddenly double the basic allocation of €6.5 million per year to €13 million and will increase the total amount for BIFIE to €20 million by 2013. If we, ladies and gentlemen, take a look over the borders to Bavaria – and Bavaria is comparable to Austria in size, but also from the number of students – then we have to note that there is also a similar institute that has a basic funding of €7 million. I think that education policy and pupils as well as educators will be well accompanied accordingly. In Bavaria, this educational institution costs a student 5 €, in Austria 14 €. The question of why this is so, we have also rightly asked in committee, but unfortunately the Federal Minister was unable to clarify it sufficiently. And that is why we will not vote on this point today. Another clear rejection comes from us also to the so-called amendment request, which provides that in addition to the BIFIE, which evaluates, a Federal matured audit committee is established, which in turn evaluates the evaluation results of the BIFIE and strategic advice to the competent minister on the resolution of the audit. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a typical Austrian solution, a typical large-coalition solution, to quickly create a body so that the social partners are involved and above all the political balance and balance will be maintained by means of it, for example: each two representatives of the national school councils – clearly: from red and black – each two representatives of the ministry – the Ministry of Science black, the Ministry of Education red –, further: Representatives of the central committees of the Federal teachers for general education schools, for vocational schools and so on. There is a proportional division here again – one can now say: in small; but the system grows and goes on the way we do not want it from the BZÖ. That is why we will not agree to this either. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also very interesting that the ÖVP is now moving a little politically, at least verbally, discovering its love for the school of the whole day and also discovering its love for a uniform new right of service. I'm excited about how long this harmony lasts. The union has already deposited its usual Njet before; then you will see who will bite out the teeth on whom again. The BZÖ has a clear attitude to all day school, to day care: We say more offers, yes to the expansion of day care, because this is also necessary – but on a voluntary basis and in particular with funding hours in the afternoon, but also with offers such as sports offers, exercise offers to demand and promote the children as much as possible. We are also saying that there is a uniform new right of service and remuneration, but with higher entrance salaries for teachers, but also – and I say so quite vehemently – with a working time that allows teachers more time to teach, so that in the future these unnecessarily discussed discussions over two hours are more teaching obligations of the past and the real problems are not covered with them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a lot to do. It is not only the necessary foresight and verbal announcement that are required, but it is needed to act. If a complete reform of the school system is properly dealt with, then the BZÖ will not object to it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8332	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8354	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Haubner, you are perfectly right: It is important to invest in education not only when it comes to financial resources, but also when it comes to the so-called cerebral malt and the necessary wide view. And that is exactly the challenge that the government parties are facing and that we want to take into account today's proposal for a standardised maturity test. The development of the school system is substantial, that is no question at all. We have always put a premise on the part of the ÖVP, namely to work with those affected, and that is why the school partnership – the involvement of parents, teachers and students – has always been very important to us. The concept of standardized maturity testing, as we have discussed and presented it today, ultimately bears the manuscript of the ÖVP. In today's times – and this has already been mentioned many times – it is essential to set up and act in accordance with national and, above all, appropriate standards. Two criteria have always been important to us in this context, namely the comparability, when it comes to complying with international standards, but also to taking into account fairness, because ultimately it is about giving our students safety for their services. In order to give security, there need be two things: on the one hand, the education standards, which are very likely to come from the time of Minister Gehrer – so she should not have been so bad at all – and on the other hand, the standardized maturity test as she is today. It has always been important for us from the ÖVP to take two things into account: on the one hand, to ensure autonomous priorities and on the other hand to take all types of schools into account. The aim of the new Matura is to standardize the final effect of the written part and the oral part can continue to be determined and developed by the school location. I think this is a good way to take school autonomous priorities into account. Standardisation is also carried out in areas which are particularly relevant in order to be able to make statements on the ability to study. This means that standardisation takes place in the core areas of German, mathematics and foreign languages. If we are talking about standardisation, we need to keep in mind what it is all about in detail. It is about the fact that, on the one hand, within the framework of the written part, the questions for students are standardized and, on the other hand, there is also a predefined assessment schedule for the correction by the teachers. It is important to note that they take place at schools. For students, it is also likely to be essential to know that a negative assessment in a written part can be very well - as before - verbally improved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The new maturity test will be implemented and will apply from the school year 2013/2014. It was already the case in the last school year that 16 000 pupils received uniform examinations. In other words, there has already been an advance and an attempt to get closer to this standardized maturity test, and the experience has been incorporated into this concept. So far – and the colleague from the SPÖ has already pointed out – it has been so that teachers have decided autonomously how and what will be examined at the Matura. As a result, young people were no longer only asked for grades in their applications, but above all was relevant which school they attended, because it is unfortunately a reality that the matura in the different schools is partly not comparable or very likely there are differences in the level. Today, ladies and gentlemen, quality assurance is essential in order to be internationally competitive. If there were fears that this could bring a levelling down, then I can only say that this is not about a levelling down or an exaggeration, but rather about setting a level at all – that is our goal. We of the ÖVP have ensured that school autonomous priorities can be illustrated in the framework of the mature examination and there is a differentiation, as is the case in the field of mathematics, where it is necessary to plan. We have also ensured that this concept begins with the AHS and is then further developed for the BHS until 2015. And it was also important for us to take account of the professional and externalist maturity test. For us essentially – and I have already said that in the first place – the involvement of those concerned was essential. That is why we have also agreed to standardize a federal maturity audit committee by law. It is not about, Mrs Haubner, that we have sought new positions for different personalities – that is totally nonsense. Rather, it is a confidence-building measure that is designed to ensure that the school partners – thank God also to be members of the Commission – take part in this new form of maturity examination. In my opinion, it is important that it be accompanied and evaluated here that this report, this ongoing evaluation, is finally presented to the National Council and that we have the opportunity to discuss it. In this context, it was also necessary to amend the BIFIE Act – on the one hand, to provide appropriate answers to data protection issues, but also to provide answers to recent irritations regarding supplementary questionnaires that have been distributed. The BIFIE Amendment Act makes it clear that in the future only the review of education standards may and should be mandatory, as well as the participation of students in national or international assessments, but not in supplementary questionnaires. In this respect, it would be necessary – also in the sense of the well-being and performance of our students – for all parties to support the proposal to bring the standardized maturity test to rail. I think it is an important step in an overall approach that we should all, ladies and gentlemen, take.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8442	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8463	Mr President! Mrs. Minister! High house! Let me begin by making a brief comment on what happened here this morning: It was a sad game for parliamentarianism, in contrast to what the representatives and representatives – in this case only representatives – said to the legal parties. The older viewers on TV screens may still remember how democracy has been systematically weakened in the 1920s and 1930s. Unfortunately, this has reminded us today. It might be a consideration, Mrs. Minister, to make such transfers accessible to students so that they can see how they are doing here and what the representatives of the so-called little man – the little woman usually leave them out – really have in mind. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call: But now you've been deeply involved]] The three laws that we adopt today are not necessarily a reason for a great day of joy – to correct colleagues in Mayer – but I give him the right to make progress. We will all agree to these three laws, they will go in the right direction. On this occasion, Mrs Minister, I would like to express my express thanks for having been able to discuss very constructively in the Committee that it was possible to present necessary amendments here too. That those who have come from the ÖVP, Mrs. Fuhrmann, invites an old teacher like me, who has been in Austrian education policy for 31 years, a smile – and many of my colleagues, too. There are, of course, three areas in which we are moving forward in the direction we want, which we urgently need in the direction of a uniform education system. That's something whole, it's very important. This is achieved, for example, by the new maturity test. I was in the process of developing this new maturity test with my school from the beginning. This is also a very good example of political communication, I must say, because at the beginning there was great skepticism about this new maturity test – I have noticed for myself that the colleagues were unsure – when we saw how it was carried out, what relief this brings to many colleagues at schools, the mood has changed significantly. I am sure that if we continue on this constructive path, we will be able to raise awareness of the need for a standardisation of the entire school system. I am already at a critical point. We must continue here, we must not stop. We have the standards in the eighth level, we have them in the fourth level, and we now have the standardized maturity exam. We need that urgently. We have to get away from those notes – Elmar Mayer has already pointed out – which have little power to say, we have to come to such standards that we can say exactly what students can and cannot really do. The Teaching Practice Act also seems to me to be an important step forward, because it also allows older people – over 40, over 45 – to enter the school service. This has not been possible so far. This is a first, very, very delicate step towards opening up the school, a step which we must urgently continue, as I said, because the lack of teachers is in the process. We remember the disgusting letter from Minister Gehrer, whom we had to distribute in schools at the time – I think it's seven or eight years ago – in which she strongly warned about teaching. – Fatal, because now we are reaping what was already foreseeable. That there is a huge wave of retirement, that was already recognizable with a view towards the teaching body. So we have to work against this urgently, and that is what we have to do now, so that the situation does not really get worse in four or five years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But what we lack, ladies and gentlemen, is still the big throw. When I think of the discussions we have held in the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, when I think of the discussions in the teaching committee, we can say that there is largely agreement on the central issues. Why nothing is implemented, for example, why not take decisive steps towards the common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds, this is currently due to a small minority in the trade union. It is mainly the concrete fraction in the ÖAAB, which prevents progress in this area. – Please, let’s try a coalition of the reasonable! They have very important central forces in the ÖVP – in the Industrial Association, in the Economic Association, in the context of the ÖVP, when I think of various church organizations – which want to take this path towards common school with us quite clearly. What the whole day school is going on seems to be the first soft movements, but, please, we don't want the whole day school as a care model, but we want it as a pedagogical model. We do not want children to be grafted into knowledge in the morning and then checked sometime, but we want to give children time, time to rest, to digest what they have heard. That's why we need the limited school. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We also need a fair school, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore the common school. In addition to Germany, there is no more socially selective school system than ours. If the parents have Matura or college degree, the probability that the child will also come or study in the AHS is 79 percent. If parents only have compulsory schooling, this probability is only 10 percent. – We have to put the lever on it, we have to give all children in this state a chance, otherwise we will grow more and more problems that are likely to arise in the next few years, i.e. social problems. We have seen a generation growing up in this school system, which is almost chanceless at the age of 15. 21.5 percent of 15-year-olds cannot read meaningfully. That's where we have to work. Mr Musiol has taken a first important step with a kindergarten initiative. The Kindergarten is a central point of approach for improving Austrian education. You have us at your side when we make reforms in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8537	I now give the floor to Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8558	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Strache, if you say that education must be a central public concern if you say that in the field of education, in particular in the field of public expenditure, it is a matter of using the money properly, when you say that it is about promoting all the talents and talents of our children as far as possible, then I would like to stress every one of these target formulations. That's what it's all about. We also have very, very constructive debates in the Committee on Education, under the direction of your spokesperson, but we differ in individual but essential ways; I put it this way. I too am in favour of a clear differentiation of education, but I say that differentiation from the age of 10 is too early, because the educational and vocational decision at the age of ten cannot be made as well as at the age of 14, 15 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am perfectly right to say that we must invest in the field of education and vocational guidance, that we need to make changes here, because it cannot simply be accepted that, for example, only 60 of 100 students who start at the trade academy reach the Matura. I am not speaking now of the almost endangered ninth school year, of the ninth school level, but that is what is going on. We lose the students in the course of the upper level because, I say now, many children may be in the wrong type of school because they can't build closer affinity with Soll and Haven, so they can't identify themselves with it. That is, we need to better prepare our children's decision on the way to education. I am absolutely with you and have repeatedly emphasized this here in the House: Every child who goes to school in Austria has to master the German language. – In this respect, we have to start in kindergarten, we have to start with promotions, quotas will not bring us here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Haubner is quite right when she says that there is still an incredible amount of work to be done in the field of education. But I am a bit different than Mr Walser, who is waiting for the big throw. I do not think that there is a big throw in the educational reform. There is simply a long list of projects that is consistent, sometimes with a certain tenacity, step by step, project for project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is exactly where we are now, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that we will have broad support. Decisions today You are dealing with four important legislative projects, namely: the new maturity test – for me, the consistent continuation of our already decided by a broad majority of Parliamentary projects on education standards – associated with the necessary renewal of the BIFE law, In-service training law; and Examining tax law, to ensure further resolution. All four of them together help us to get a little further in our education reform. I would like to express my express thanks for the constructive cooperation with the government partner and with all the many schools. Mr Walser mentioned this: 280 AHS locations have been involved in the prototype development of “new Matura”. That was fantastic. Teachers have become incredibly involved, and they also thank them for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Great projects are ahead of us, ladies and gentlemen, who will certainly be a bit more controversial. I am just saying: new, joint training for all those working in the teaching profession, new, more decent, fairer service and remuneration right for the new teachers and the administrative reform currently being discussed in the subcommittee, where my main concern is that we strengthen responsibility at the school location, that we get away from this “supervisory guild”, from the hierarchy, which is so powerful, from the regulatory and regulatory culture to a lot more self-reliance and confidence in the sites themselves. This will then also be transferred to the young people. – Thank you to all those who support me.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8656	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8677	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The fact that education is important to us is precisely documented by the fact that our Federal Partyman and Clubobmann spoke first in this debate. This is the importance we want to attach to the debate on education, and that is why it is so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... just like that!]] When I look into your empty rows of seats, I also see how education policy is set up with you. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Schönpass: Get in front of your own door!]] If you say that was actually nothing but the “common deportation” – under quotation marks – to foreigners or the like, what Mr. Klubobmann Strache has done here, then I must say: You have heard what your own Minister has just said, emphasizing the words of Mr Klubobmann Strache. But it's exactly this symptomatic blindness that you have in relation to some of the problems in this Republic that just gives you the way to really address and implement solutions, and people know that! [[Abg. Silhavy: You have scavengers!]] If the Central Matura is here today to discuss and vote, you have to say the following: There are three pillars. From our point of view, the written part-matura is an important pillar. On the other hand, this pre-scientific work is an indispensable pillar, because, in our opinion, science belongs to the university, and it is not necessary to force maturants to learn the rules of quotation that are then obsolete at the university. There is a lot of administration and a lot of money spent. [[Abg. Dr. Walser:... great progress on the...! ... helped the students to go to college!]] [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: That's the good thing! Working pre-scientificly, that's the good thing...!]] Then there is a small column, that of the oral maturity test, where one then only gets a single question from one object that decides between “being or being nothing. ” – We think that is the wrong way in detail. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that a central matura or partial central matura to raise the level of our abiturists, our maturants is good and right, we underline the whole, but we have some fears and do not wish that at the end of this central matura a level will be lowered, which some do not fear quite unwarranted. Let us also come to BIFIE – the increases have already been mentioned. However, I would like to point out that 4.1 million € will be spent on the cycles of the most diverse studies – PISA, TIMSS, PIRLS and TALIS. I think it should be considered whether these funds should continue to be used at such a level when one knows that the education system is currently being reformed. It seems to me that if you want to renovate and renovate your house as a house builder, you can see that the windows are tight, but before you actually build the thermal insulation windows, you shoot them every day with a thermal image camera and see if they have already got closer. – If we know that our school system does not work perfectly, we do not need to study where apples are compared to pears – without wanting to narrow the meaning of international comparisons in any form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the whole day school: We are not concerned with the fact that, as Mr Walser said in his first remarks – almost the tears have come to us – that democracy is again, as in the 1920s or 1930s, in some form a disposition, where he believes that we are going to have terrible times again. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: For crying, I didn't want to bring you that far...!]] I prefer a living democracy in the First Republic, as in the 1920s, rather than what is in store for you, namely to use stasi and other methods of pruning in the face of political opponents. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Lively democracy already!]] This is much better to me than what you are soliciting here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Stop your settings!]] And there you don't need to make transfers with tear-sticked voice in the lessons. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser:... tell such a joke, but not here!]] The children should learn something – reading, writing, computing – so that they as apprentices also have the opportunity to become a specialist worker in Austria, so that we do not have to import them. [[Abg. Dr. Walser:... 47 error!]] We do not want a full day school with educational facilities in the afternoon, but we want to provide support on a voluntary basis, because it is reality that many families and single women also need this opportunity. In any case, there must also be the possibility that something else is offered, namely the rest you are talking about, in the family. I believe that the Federal Minister has recently become a heading and keyword minister. If I only make the €636 000, which is always worth the advertising campaigns for school and school starters – €310 000 for the magazine “Austria” alone! – then I mean, that would have to be ended. I believe that it is also necessary – and this has been very clear yesterday – that the micro-schools in the rural regions will be preserved. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That was the uniform view of all political groups from the countries. It is about actually preserving the micro-regions – for example South Tyrol – under the keyword: small feet, small legs, small ways.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8921	The request has been properly submitted, but I would ask you, if you still intend to make an application, to pay attention to the speaking time, so that it still has room within the intended time. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Thank you, Mr President.]] We are very close to the time – fairness for everyone. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e8980	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9001	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! [[The speaker turned to the newly arrived Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner too.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. Weinzinger: (on the State Secretary Dr. Lopatka, who is also sitting on the government bank) That's a man, so you don't greet him!]] Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! I have given myself, but also many others, the promise that every time someone comes from the FPÖ to the speaker's desk and says the untruth, even to the speaker's desk and says that you say the untruth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] You have said the untruth several times today. It was your government: Among you, there was most uncontrolled immigration ever. Under your time of government, the seasonal rate has been increased to the infinite. [[Call BZÖ: Nonsense!]] [[Abg. Bucher: No one believes that! Read the statistics!]] In your time of government, German teachers were saved in schools and hours were saved. Today, we are adopting clear rules against asylum abuse, but at the same time fair opportunities for those who are rightfully here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And we are now taking new important measures in the field of education. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And otherwise: Learn story!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:... German lessons!]] All of us here must agree on our educational objectives. Firstly, we need to become educational country number one. That is, we must make our young people fit for the requirements today, but also for the requirements of the future. We need to exploit the entire potential of young people in Austria. And we need an education system that's just. If we notice today that children are afraid when they go to school – fear of pressure of power, fear of judgment, fear of coming along – if we talk to parents today who are spending the last time in order to put their children in private schools, then all of us have to ring the alarm bells! [[Abg. Weinzinger: Protective pressure, they're afraid of that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: With you!]] [[Abg. Strache: In Vienna, for example, where you bear responsibility!]] Listen to me for a moment! There must be no insistence on old patterns, but there must be a minister of education, who is the first to take the right steps that break down as the first structures and say that she wants to change this education system until our children learn what they need to learn until our children go to school with joy and until our children are not driven out of the hunger of knowledge, but they are encouraged to be supported here in the house with full force! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Why didn't you do anything in Vienna for the last decades?- Oh, my God!]] That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, the essential question is: Are we working in the interests of young people, or are we working for stand-alone interests or for party-political propaganda interests? The answer, I think, must be clear: We must work in the interests of young people. Therefore, the New Secondary School is also so essential. Not for nothing is the New Secondary School practiced throughout Europe, throughout the world, and also in Austria all private schools are secondary schools and based on the concept of the New Secondary School. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It is also natural that the New Secondary School must be a school where the children are individually promoted, where group lessons take place and where it is looked at that children in the school can and learn German perfectly. But all of this can only happen in a new middle school and not in the school that has existed for 30 years. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Well, well!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] You've seen that the school system has not worked in the last 30 years. The new school system of social democracy, at the head of which Minister of Education is Schmied, works! Not for nothing is the urge to the New Secondary Schools also so huge. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: The failure is now due to the lack of...!]] If we look at the numbers, then we all have to startle: if we still spend €160 million for recovery, if 87 percent of the children of parents with a university degree at the age of 17 attend an AHS-Oberstu-fe, but only 16 percent of the children whose parents have a compulsory school degree. Do you feel that education diplomas are genetically inherited? No, no, no, It depends on the money exchanger in which school a child goes – and that is unfair, and it must not be! [[Abg. Weinzinger: This depends on the education at home! That's wrong what you're telling me!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] It is our task – across party borders – to achieve the best for our children and the best school system for our children. There must be no party propaganda and no party polemics in the room. I think these are important steps, but they must not be the only steps. But I would like to congratulate a minister who has the courage to deal with the interests of the stand, who has the courage to take new steps in education policy and who is not afraid of simply standing on the sides of the students – who are not all entitled to vote, which is why it is often the case that this does not happen. We now have a Minister of Education, who gives a clear position, namely the best for the children to want the best for the students – and everyone who does not support them is negligent. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9257	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9278	Mr President. Minister! High house! This was now a burning appeal from Mr Rudas to support Mrs Teaching Minister. [[Abg. Street: "Floaming"!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Very passionate by Mrs Rudas!]] [[Abg. Bucher: She was almost burned! Burned Secretary-General!]] I say: Yeah, we'd love to support her if she's new to the Service Law. We would like to support it if it finally takes account of the administrative reform. We also connected real hopes with her. Only: What is the problem with this coalition? It is a symbolic image that offers itself to the viewers and the High House here. [[The speaker points to the government bank and the Bureau.]] There is the delicate woman's minister, who is trying to implement reforms. Behind it is President Fritz Neugebauer, who suffocates any reform by the union in the germ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have seen – only when the budget has been negotiated for you and They urgently needed more financial resources – what happened: First, you have let your coalition partner run, then you have left your own party in the rain, and finally both the service law and the administrative reform have been buried – and that, Mrs Rudas, is really the problem you have! There is an efforted minister, we have all recognized the problems, we know that we need acute action in the field of education, and we also know where he is – only you, in this red-black coalition, are unable to solve the problems indeed! That's it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The SPÖ comes out here today and says: Today is a day of joy for education policy, and this is now a big step in education reform! – After wumm: Today, we are adopting a standardised maturity test, which has long been at the level of other European countries, and a lifting of the age limits for the teaching internship – that is not the big educational reform, that is not the big throw! [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: Just that!]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... you can't even need that!]] Mrs. Schmied has recognized it correctly and said: The big throw won't be there! – Thanks to their coalition partner, I add! But that's what we're going to need, because reality is another. The SPÖ speaker said that today is a day of joy for education policy. However, reality looks like we still have overcrowded classes, frustrated teachers, overcrowded children and parents who no longer get to the brink with the financial burdens. [[New calls of the Agg. Silhavy]] This concerns follow-up hours or teaching materials such as computers, which are also made available free of charge in other European countries – and in addition, we have a teacher union that uses all its power to get the status quo. We have really put great hopes in you, Mrs Federal Minister, and I say it again here: We support you. Take a start and change the Service Law, because that is the reason for all blockades in education policy! An administrative reform and a service law! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] To the New Secondary School, the Joint School: We have supported you, especially in our state of Carinthia, as you know. We're already in the second generation, but what does that look like? The project has been launched without creating and changing the framework conditions. In these well-informed schools, two types of teachers – AHS and primary school teachers – teach together, but they are given different fees, have different service rights and different training. [[Call the ÖVP: That this is possible!]] The framework conditions were simply not achieved. I'd just like to give you something with you after the time has gone by: Let's get to Finland for a little bit! The Finnish model consists not only of an autonomous total school, but above all there is a school management, which is strongly geared to the field of New Public Management: The head of the school is the director, he manages the budget and is only responsible to the community. The Director alone decides on the admission of teachers and acts in a body – together with the local authorities and the school partners – where he has a certain autonomy. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] If I look at the double-differences of the responsibilities in Austria, which still exist – where we have the most different levels of administration – then I say that there is simply a need for a effort to actually tackle this administrative reform – otherwise we can forget the education system for more years. That's a fact! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] In doing so, Mrs. Federal Minister, you have our full support. I can only say: Will you finally join the coalition so that these reform measures can finally be implemented, and thus...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9426	Mr President, you have been crossing 30 seconds. You're 30 seconds over time! [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dr. Strutz.]] Next, Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9459	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, Since today, I know: BZÖ stands for ‘without B ildung no Zukunft Ö sterichs’. What we have experienced today in the debate on the Rules of Procedure, namely that asylum is being played out against education, has disqualified you for every question of education, because education has the same right to be discussed here in television broadcasting time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Bucher: That would be the day tomorrow...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rudas has told us that she would like Austria to be the educational country number one. I missed the colleague Rudas when it came to receiving our apprentices – who returned to Austria as prizewinners and most successful participants a few weeks ago – here in Austria together at the airport. [[Call to the ÖVP: We didn't miss them!]] These apprentices deserved the applause of this House and the Federal Government. I can ask the Federal Government to mark the winners of a global international apprenticeship competition, as this shows: Austria's education system has a lot, can do a lot and will also offer much in the future! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about the competence-oriented maturity test today, we must not forget that it is an overall concept and that the completion of a mature exam should not be played against the completion of a teaching or teaching and matura, but that in all areas the quality must be ensured accordingly. Three key words give us a political lead for the competence-oriented maturity test. For the ÖVP, competence-oriented means that the pupils of the Sir-Karl-popper school should be as challenged as the students of a high-level real-gymnasium with a musical-creative focus. For us, part-central means that the students in their entirety should show what they can, but that in the event of benefits they should be assured that they too can reach them. Therefore, the expansion of school autonomy is important to us and it is necessary to reconcile the expansion of school autonomy with the legal proposal. It must not hinder school autonomy, but it should be made possible by this maturity test. But the third point that matters to us is the review of university maturity. We only decide today on the framework, but in selecting the tasks, we must ensure that universities actively participate in the tasks and say: Yes, these are the tasks that actually check the maturity test and the university maturity! Mrs Bundesminister, there is still much to be done to get there. The BIFIE gets a lot of money. We would have liked more competition, because Austria has more research institutions than just BIFIE! But be it, we will vote in favour of this today. However, we will look very closely at the fact that the quality of BIFIE is actually observed in the preparation, because our students have a right to find a fair maturity test in four years, which runs under the new law. Mrs Bundesminister, you are very happy to take up those parts of the Coalition Agreement that are important to you. I would remind you, however, that in a coalition for good cooperation our issues also have to be addressed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This includes the evaluation and redesign of the school entrance phase. To date, this evaluation has not been carried out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rudas.]] This includes, Mrs Rudas, the evaluation of all school experiments. We could already have a lot, much more school autonomy from primary to secondary school, if the evaluation had been started accordingly. [[Abg. Rudas: Who has...?]] You refuse! You refuse this evaluation, you do not order it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We would like to see more autonomy, more evaluation of school trials and the rapid implementation of those school tests that prove to be successful. That's not what you're gonna do. The Federal Minister may still comment on this, but I hope that she will also quickly fulfill our wishes. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] – We are not in the SPÖ Ottakring District Party Centre!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9584	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9606	Mr President. That's a good word, Mrs. Cortolezis: We are here in Parliament and not in the government, which is ultimately about education policy in Austria and not about the government's disputes. But when I do She may recall which parts of the government conventions have been implemented, for example, that, I think, the last four government conventions always included the pass that there should be a new salary scheme for teachers, with higher entry salaries, that the profession of teachers becomes more interesting. When you look back at it: The last finance ministers were either of the ÖVP, of the ÖVP or of the ÖVP, and this salary scheme is still not available! So why didn't you implement the things you agreed to yourself and for which you were actually the leader? – That’s exactly why this would have been a useful measure to address the threat of a teacher’s lack. So the story you're holding here can make you the subject in the coalition, but don't bother the National Council with your disputes! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let's get to the positives of today: A semi-central Matura – a partially standardized Matura, I think, should be said more precisely – is something that the Greens support. I believe that, at least since the PISA studies have become known, we have had to clearly see that there is a need for action. If it comes out that the second best and the second worst AHS in Austria, measured by PISA, de facto have the same average score in certain objects, although they have a difference – again measured according to PISA – of up to one and a half years of learning, then you have to see that something is wrong in the system. So it can't be that a matura certificate is awarded according to completely different criteria. In this respect, this is a sensible step, in principle a sensible step. I also believe that it makes sense to achieve a certain objective in the oral field by asking questions. I believe that everyone knows the things of Matura examples, where matura questions have been given elsewhere, and the question that students or teachers have worked there with different methods has quite required a change. Therefore, the partially standardised Matura is worth supporting, especially because the oral area is excluded in so far as it is possible to set more emphasis in schools. That is why we will vote in favour of this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us come to a second debate, which we have held intensively in recent days, on the issue of day-to-day schools. It is a situation that is remarkable – and that is to be mentioned positively – when a party changes its position and says: Okay, we recognize that there is a need for change here! – This now concerns the ÖVP. What I don't quite understand is why you actually bring this strict separation between afternoon care and all day schools as an ideological criterion again. Now we all know – and these discussions have been, I believe, also consistently conducted – that this form of teaching in Austria – at 7.40 a.m. it is the first time, at 8.30 a.m. the hour is off, 5 minutes is a break, then the next hour begins, we do this until lunch break and teach in 50 minutes blocks throughout without reasonable breaks – after every form of pedagogical science and brain research extremely much at po- Tencial and resources are being destroyed, and with a sensible day-to-day course – by the way, it would also be useful for Parliament to ask whether one can really get through until one o'clock in the early morning and conduct reasonable debates – with the same learning time and time, probably get much better results. It is precisely after the definition of the ÖVP that we now have to ask whether this is efficient and whether the resources are used meaningfully, when we know that it is more of an uninteresting or unmotivated relationship for both the teacher and the teacher in the sixth hour, and not at all for the students. Why should the daily processes not be different? Now I say from me: Then we take a first step and say at least, those who want to get a right to a full day school in restricted form! That would be at least a first step. If you see that there is a high need, there will be no different anyway. But why should the ideological criteria continue to be maintained? – Let us make a school that meets the wishes and needs of the students and also the educators! Since here the light begins to flash, finally the following: What is happening in education policy at the moment has good approaches, but unfortunately is often quite unforgivable. A criticism of this central matura is that teachers now come and say: We teach at the upper level, we know the children who are already at the upper level are maturing in four years, and we do not yet know how the matura looks. Why does it always have to be that something can't be planned and carried out usefully? The best example is the kindergartens right now. Wonderful idea: Obligatory kindergarten had something to do with education, as far as I remember, namely the idea of ensuring equal opportunities or equal opportunities for all. But how is the situation now? – We have the situation that we have too few kindergartens, that the groups are overcrowded and that it has simply been implemented very quickly without having been sufficiently prepared. From the past, Mrs. Federal Minister: Keep an eye on the preparation of all good ideas and see that things also work when they enter into force!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9682	I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9703	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! These three agenda items on the agenda today bring progress in the field of education, and of course these three points also have our support. However, I would also like to take this opportunity today to make some fundamental comments. Last week, Minister of Finance Pröll gave a fundamental speech and expressed a very clear opinion on education policy. He said: “In our children, young people and young people Adults are an incredible force for the future. They are the guarantee for future innovation, growth and prosperity in our country. For this we need a substantial further development of our entire education system, but not a series of individual measures. We must clearly define and outline where we want to go. Then everyone will also pull on one strand: Students, parents and teachers. This goal can be formulated in a few months, if all are sitting at a table.” – To the extent of the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance. What he described here is what our position is. We are generally concerned with a substantial further development of our entire education system and not with a series of individual measures. We say that we must first define and outline clearly where we want, and involve those concerned in the discussion, because education is the key factor for the overall development of Austria and our society. We see in school an area that is becoming increasingly important, but school is always only family-friendly for us and should never be family-based. That's our approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that the school is now more demanding than it was ten or twenty years ago with regard to this support. We know, of course, that work processes have changed and that almost two thirds of women are now working, that the grandparent generation is still working itself, and therefore, of course, this question is a very virulent one: What do we do on all-day offers where they are needed, but with the emphasis on freedom of choice? – We are of course for this comprehensive, needs-oriented and also high-quality afternoon care. Only in this way is a compatibility of work and family actually possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A very crucial point will be that the processes will be designed in such a way that it is actually possible for the children to take advantage of what they want in the afternoon, in addition to what the school offer is, in the afternoon, their interests in the musical field or in the sports field. What is in store for us is to come up with common models as quickly as possible to use the resources needed to do so. Do we want to implement what we have set out in the government programme? – In any case, there is no big difference between us. Of course, the infrastructure that is necessary to make available is not a question at all! That is also what we want to achieve together in the Federal Government. But “jointly” is also a keyword: We must succeed – and this is certainly not a simple undertaking – in taking the standing representatives into the boat and winning them as a partner, because they will be the ones who will then have to implement what we state on the part of politics with their colleagues. [[Abg. Weinzinger: (in the direction of the Bureau) There he sits!]] The more they can identify with it, the better we will succeed in implementation! What we want is a will to change from all sides. A new, common approach Teacher service law certainly has a key role to play in this overall concept. This new, common teacher service law is also of such importance because we will have thousands of new jobs in the coming years, in the foreseeable future, and for these thousands of new jobs, we need this new right of service, which takes into account the social developments we have, and also the additional and necessary forms of afternoon care. We don't want to insure anyone. We want to support the 120 000 teachers whose work has certainly not become easier in recent years. That is why we say quite clearly: Yes to reforms, involving the school partners! That is what we need to do, this involvement of the school partners in order to achieve an overall reform. For this we are at our disposal, we see our support for the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9761	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and at home in front of the televisions! I would think that knowledge and education are the most important good that our country will be able to claim in the future. I think we can all underline that, because we all agree. This means that we must focus on all aspects of reform in the field of education. There is one thing for the three novels today that we can fully agree with. This is this reform that will end it – no, let me start from the beginning: There is a law which provides for a maximum age of 45 for admission to the teaching practice, and this is to be amended today. That's a good thing. It's an excellent thing. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, due to the pension reform, the retirement age has been increased to 65 years, and as a result, teachers are now available to the school service even longer and sufficient. Secondly, older people who have previously worked in other professions now have the opportunity to take up the teaching profession after completing a supplementary study. Thirdly, this removal of the age limit is especially beneficial to teachers who have decided to take the job of the housewife for a period of time in their life and to raise their children themselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, women – and they are mostly women – can practice the teaching profession in a later period of life. This now easier permeability of professions also benefits the students. The professional world in which they will enter has changed dramatically in recent years, and teachers who already have professional experience, for example, from economic life into this new teaching profession, can do much to prepare young people for a later career Above all, they know that students need to learn something! That sounds strange now, but it's not natural at all. It is then no longer pre-accelerated to the students, at least from their point of view that learning must always be lustful, and they will not hide that performance is necessary, that effort is not an outdated virtue and that discipline is necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These old ideas of the sixty-eight – anti-authoritarian education has failed, and it is good that now a change can occur. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not often enough to say that the school is the place of learning and that all the ideas of reform should concentrate on it. In this context, it should also be said that in recent decades teachers have been raised a lot of problems that they cannot solve alone. For example, teachers cannot compensate for the massive problems of the lack of integration created by the wrong immigration policy, let alone solve them! This is the task of politics. That is the real problem, in fact. The lives of many immigration children play in their own cliquen, play in their own parallel worlds. No trace of integration! The educational deficits, especially the German deficits, are disastrous and have been known for decades. Getten nothing or far too little. Ladies and gentlemen! Inaction and looking away are political deadly sins. For decades now, we liberals have been the only party to recognise this problem and offer solutions. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: You were in the government!]] The task of the future is to impart knowledge and education!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9853	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9874	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Mr State Secretary, I would like to address your comments very briefly. You've always talked about the afternoon care. I know that You see that. You can still talk a lot about it, but the reality is that there is a much higher need for restricted schooling all day long. This is the crucial point, even if you keep talking about afternoon care: The reality moves towards limited day care. At some point we will also decide here, and the time is no longer too far away. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Unterlander, you are saying: The sixty-eight failed, and now, finally, discipline comes back. I simply have to contradict you, because only then did this movement, which was a strong one, in a different sense have enabled education policy in a different sense. This movement is based on the fact that there are so many alternative schools today, whose type of learning and teaching has now been incorporated into the general education system. I don't think you're going to dispute that either. The motto of the campaign at that time was: “Among the valleys of the Mief of 1 000 years”. That was cricket, but at least effective, even if you talk about discipline again today. Without this history, we cannot talk about education policy today. [[Abg. Weinzinger: All the left dreamers!]] I would like to refer briefly to the third novel, which you have already mentioned, namely, the law on teaching internships. Let me just say something about the background: I received a mail in March from a woman who described the following problem to me – I quote: In the course of my studies, I became aware of an obstacle. According to the current Education Practice Act, there is an age limit on the retention of the teaching internship required in the Study Plan. I am born 59 and therefore do not have the opportunity to complete my training in a reasonable manner. This resists efforts to enable women to re-enter their working life. - Quote. Quite honestly, I was not aware of that, and it turned out that this age limit actually produces hardships because it is especially impossible for women with child training times to practice the teaching profession because they lack the internship. It also has a negative impact on job changers or late-time professionals. Exciting was that it did not take long to convince everyone that it was necessary to act there. That is why, seven months later, we have now made it possible for those concerned, especially women, to enter the profession. For example, as the Federal Minister has already done, interpreters who want to change can now take up the teaching profession. I don't want to say that this third legislative novel is such a big thing now. I do not want to say that, but it is an example of how politics can function: For many, a affected person points to a problem. Let's look at that, see, yes, it's the same. We see the need for change and we are creating the problem from the world. I think we could do that more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9920	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e9941	Mr President. Minister of Education! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, it is very good that you are presiding today. Don't take my speech as a criticism of the President, but you, in your role in the public service sector or in the public service union, must of course say that one of the problem areas is located right there, in this concrete fraction in the field of school reform. Reforms are permitted only where they affect the new entrants in the teaching profession, but those who have been doing their job for ten, 15, 20, 30 years – the latter are already the lesser ones – are well-recognisable, in which nothing can change. Ladies and gentlemen, it must not be that way! We also need modern structures in the school administration. We are talking about this quite constructively in the committee. It's just everybody saying: Yeah, yeah, we can discuss. However, if we come to concrete results, I fear, Mr President, that the governments will once again explain to us in a proven way why all this is not going on, what we need to change. We need motivated teachers; that is no question at all. We need teachers at school. This is why jobs should also be created there so that teachers can also spend their entire teaching and working time at school. Then we have no problem with the afternoon care. We do not need to hire additional teachers, but we only need to ensure that the teaching obligation can also be done at school. Then, even afternoon care is no problem. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second point I want to deal with is the two-class system in the school we have. It is interesting that social democracy has always said that there must not be a two-class school system, so that those who can afford it have a proper education in a private school and the others depend on the public school system, which then does not have the quality. However, we already have another two-class system, especially in the major cities, and especially in Vienna: In the better residential districts, where there is a lower proportion of children with non-German mother tongue in schools, the children can be given free of charge to the public school. In the districts where the proportion of children with non-German mother tongue is higher, the Austrians must spend a lot of money on a private school if they want to have a proper education for their children. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, these are exactly the ones you are always proposing to represent, namely those with lower and medium incomes. This is a complete breakdown of the situation: The rich who live well give the children free in public school, because there is also a good training possible. There are the shares of 10, 15, 20, a maximum of 30 percent of children with non-German mother tongue in such a way that integration is also possible. Others, 15th, 16th, 10th. District, however, there are classes with a share of up to 90 and 95 percent. Where's the integration? There, children with non-German courage are poor because they cannot be integrated – and the few Austrian children cannot achieve the learning goals. Mrs Teaching Minister, where are the measures to address this problem? [[Abg. Riepl: What is your proposal?]] We have adopted a resolution here a few years ago, which says that there should be a 30 percent share of foreigners in the classes as the maximum limit. What did you do to do this? In view of such numbers – these are your numbers – 60 percent of foreigners in the primary schools in Vienna, where there are still concentrations, it would be necessary, as we demand, to guarantee at least at every school location that there is a class in which this proportion of 30 percent will not be exceeded, so that the Austrians can give their children back to primary schools in their home area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, do something in this direction, and do not fear the elections and your social utopian! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, Mr President: We are for a differentiation of the school system. There should be many options with full-day forms, with integrated forms, but not only a school plan prescribed from above, but a really differentiated school system in which all children can choose the school system suitable for them.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10015	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10036	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear listeners! High house! They all know that the school system and the school administration are facing major challenges and are currently subject to a detailed review. Today we decide, among other things, to reform the mature exam, and some of the discussions were very controversial in spring and early summer. Finally, a suitable and satisfactory variant of the “Matura new” was found. On the part of the ÖVP, it was important to us that this agreement also took place with the involvement of the school partners. In future, this maturity test will consist of a three-pillar model corresponding to a pre-scientific work, a standardized written statement and an oral examination. The pre-scientific work replaces the existing forms of specialist work as well as the special question and must be presented orally. The tasks for written examinations from German, a living foreign language and mathematics are centrally developed and presented by BIFIE – and this is new – Austria-wide uniform examination dates. Ladies and gentlemen, I still have three points in this regard. First of all, that the school autonomous priorities will continue to be taken into account and that there will not be a single education policy. The differentiated school system of Austria, which is particularly important to me, is thus preserved. Moreover, Matura should not be regarded as a purely access to university education, but should primarily serve as a preparation for work. In particular, graduates of higher vocational education and training schools still need practical and practical training in order to be able to stand on the labour market. The third important aspect for me is the evaluation of the “Matura new”. This can quickly identify and correct any problems that arise. I am pleased, Mrs Federal Minister, that you will submit a report on the results to the National Council after each passage. In principle, I can say that on the part of the EIA in the field of education, we want a balanced overall approach, discussed with all the school partners, and then we want to implement it. We don't think anything about an educational flick work. This is particularly true of the entire school offer. Where they are needed, they should also be expanded, but at least with freedom of choice for the parents and with the involvement of the local authorities concerned. Forcibly, there is nothing to be done here, and we therefore reject it categorically. However, care offers should not be purely supervisory but should be of high educational quality. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's decision on the standardised, competence-oriented maturity test will be an essential step towards quality assurance in the education sector, as set out in the government programme. Here we are on a good path. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10082	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10103	Mr President. High house! Dear ministers! Dear colleagues! I would now like to get in touch with the subject of audit provisions. A hardy girl, a student turned to me and told me she wanted to finish her matura. She was able to complete her schooling very well, but she finally had great problems with the Matura. The problem was that she was called upon as a hearer to understand an acoustic language practice. She then asked herself to offer her a substitute, in the form of a written text, and because of the text she was able to read, it was possible to do this matura test at the end. I also know another example. It is again about a hard-listening student who could not pass the examination in foreign language the articulation, the debate accordingly. These are not isolated cases! We have a real problem with different people, for example with the English debate. At a meeting of the Committee on Education, I addressed the Minister and pointed out to her that there are real problems in the field. I am not concerned now that we should have simpler tests for people with disabilities, but it is about the need for the method of examination to be in a form that is adequate to the needs of the person and the person with disabilities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do we need? – We need the appropriate framework conditions for inclusion. Article 9 of the UN Convention deals with the issue of accessibility. Accessibility means, on the one hand, access to educational institutions and other Facilities, transport, support for people, that can also be accompaniments so that people can really visit buildings. For example, there is also support in the form of reading. The next point that is important is access to information. People with visual impairments, hearing-see impaired people, there are people who need different forms of communication in order to really get to information. Article 24 deals with the field of education in the UN Convention. Now I am particularly addressing the teacher training. We need a corresponding offer so that people with disabilities can also take up the profession of teachers. In addition, it is very important that the people dealing with children working in education be sensitized accordingly. We also need materials, we need teaching materials and also materials in the educational field to inform children about how to deal with people with various disabilities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I wish you a working group. We need a working group to ensure that we have appropriate teaching materials. Finally, I would like to say: The disabled speaker of the ÖVP, Franz-Joseph Huainigg, has done a really good awareness. He has written children's books of various kinds to adapt the children to certain disabilities and to inform them about them. Finally: We are talking about the implementation of the UN Convention, access to education, accessibility in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10191	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - He's not in the hall. Therefore, next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10216	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! I have been following today's educational debate very closely and very often the word has fallen from the educational building site, sometimes it was also critical. Today a construction site is closed, and we are very happy about that. It is decided by the standardized Matura. Speaking of construction site, ladies and gentlemen: The whole company is a construction site! It changes continuously, and school is no longer an island. That is why we also have to understand and understand these social changes in school. I particularly agree with some previous speakers when it has been said from their side that the school administration needs to be more efficient. But I think it must be more efficient in the sense that the money we put into education policy is at the heart of education policy, namely the core clientele, our students. In this sense, we are working on the reform of education policy. In education policy, keywords are often used as killer words. For example, this has been the whole day school as a “compulsory day school. ” I would also ask that we do not raise the central matura to such a killer word, because it would be better to speak of the new Matura, because it is central to other countries that really have a central matura, at most the central, standardized quality control. And that must be a very important concern for us. Speaking of all day school, ladies and gentlemen. The school has quite simply, we have to take note of the need to carry out additional new tasks, whether you want to do so or not. New tasks are assigned to the school, and our society is changing, and that is why the school is also responsible for social matters. That is why I refuse to take care of it. I do not mean to keep it, not to keep it at all, but to prove itself so that our youth can prove itself in the future because of an excellent school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10264	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10285	High house! In the summer of 2008, in a school in Fohnsdorf – that's in Styria; for those who don't know – four girls threw a teacher with a plastic bottle, then attacked him, kicked him and then tried to paint him. The teacher fled to a adjacent room, barricaded himself there, and did not want to come out until the school guard came and broke the door. The teacher was so scared. This case is somewhat bizarre, but unfortunately not a single case. We must experience that in Austrian schools respect, order, discipline are foreign words. We have a development where the aggressive potential of children and students is increasing. Not too long ago, a student stood in front of the judge after brutally injured a fellow student. The judge asked him why he had stepped in with his foot on the defenseless fellow student on the ground, and the student said to him: At that time, I didn't think about it. Such a limit would probably not be exceeded by any one of us, but unfortunately we live in a society in which children are no longer shown boundaries. There are no more limits, and this is certainly also the mistake of anti-authoritarian education. In fact, this anti-authoritarian education is not an education at all, because there is no education without authority at all. That means that this term is not in itself correct. This becomes clear when I look at what the parents of these four girls said after this terrible incident. They said: Yeah, yeah, the kids wanted to make a Gaudi, and that's something escalated. – This is the result of this anti-authoritarian education – probably even with the parents – that they see things so liberal and uncritical. That means we need more respect again, we need more discipline again – even in our classrooms. If a teacher in Austria needs an average of 10 minutes – on average! – to bring rest to the class, so if he needs 10 minutes of his 50 minutes in which he should normally impart knowledge in order to bring peace to the class at all – in some classes this does not work throughout the class – then I wonder: In a class where there is not even a minimum degree of peace and order, how do we want to communicate the relevant content? How does that work? The next question is: What about a student who wants to learn properly, who wants to do something out of his life, who sits in this class and doesn't know anything, because the unrest is so great that you can't participate in the class? How's that going? [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] We are called upon to give teachers the tools to deal with these abuses. We do not need the pipe stick, but we need measures that make it possible to bring peace and order back to class. And if I look at the fact that it is already forbidden to put a child in the corner because it is supposedly discriminatory or humiliating, then I wonder how it is possible for a child in class to be insulted by the teacher, the other fellow students, but then if it is to be put in the corner itself. That is not reasonable, and we really have to stop it. We must give teachers more opportunities again, and above all we must also introduce an amount note. This amount note is therefore important because in later life, after school, it is not uninteresting how a person acts, whether he is able to comply with rules, because later it will be so that the boss is very likely to have an interest in having a certain respect for the superior. That is why we need the money note again, we need more rights for teachers and what we need, above all, is more sensitivity to the fact that the few who are permanently disrupting those who are supported by the parents with their anti-authoritarian attitude, who are not able to complete the teaching, that these few need to be rigorously separated. We have to trust ourselves in this, and it must be finally concluded that these few push the performance and output down in the school accordingly. We see this in Vienna and also in other federal states. That's why: More rights for teachers! Stop the anti-authoritarian education! Only then does our school have the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10350	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I would like to speak. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10371	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Bundesinstitut für Bildungsforschung, Innovation und Entwicklung has important tasks, such as checking the education standards as well as the implementation of various research projects to further develop the education system. The discussion over the last one and a half years has clearly shown that it is important that the Ministry should have clear guidelines for BIFIE. In the past, parents and students have often known too little about the objective and scope of the surveys. In addition, questions about the personal environment were asked, which were not always necessary and comprehensible. The law to be adopted today will make significant improvements in this area. Data protection and information about the student's personal environment are simply important and guaranteed. Confidentiality should be of course here. Parents as well as students should be better informed than before about the nature and purpose of the surveys and should also involve them accordingly. I hope that it is a matter for all of us that modern education policy only makes sense in the dialogue of politics, research, teachers and school management, parents and students, and also has the future. The BIFIE actually has something like a solo position. It's a sensitive way to deal with it. It is necessary to distinguish between national and international tasks. By express approval by the Minister for Education for Surveys and Projects are hopefully guaranteed that only studies required for quality assurance will be approved and will not interfere with the course of education. In addition, I expect the BIFIE to come out with the existing financial resources in the future. With the evaluation and evaluation of the new maturity test, BIFIE has a very interesting and valuable task. I think it is important that parents and students can rely on correct handling of personal data in the context of scientific work. The obligation to provide information and the competence of the Minister of Education are, I hope, pillars which guarantee this. Education policy is diverse. Individual solutions are necessary here. These are to be worked out together with the school partners. School cannot replace parenting, such as child rearing, but can only support it. Teacher or teacher should be more than just a profession, but rather a kind of vocation. Teachers in small schools, for example, with two levels in one class, do special things. If they still have children with different mother tongues, as well as in my home community, in a class, this is a special challenge. In this context, Mrs Federal Minister, I think it would be useful to discuss the field of small and medium-sized schools more and more intensively in the future and to ensure that they do so accordingly. [[Complementary of the Abg. Franz.]] A thought about the working time of teachers in school. One should also consider the quality of the conference rooms and what costs are incurred here on school holders. Further development is possible only manually with school partners and school holders. We stand for an education of diversity. This means developing positively. With today's laws, we take a proper step in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10428	The next speaker was Mr Linder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10450	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If you observe in recent years how the student's way of dealing is with each other in school, how often you can read violence, and you can also experience it yourself from your own children, how roughly some students deal with each other, when you experience what we have heard today, how some students are among the teachers, to the superiors, or to other adults in schools, you can be sure that some things are not working properly in this system anymore. If you still experience Austria's results in the PISA tests, where we cut off very badly, in the back third, this should encourage us to think, because this is a little confirmation that the system is working worse and not properly divided. And then there is a false signal on the part of politics to the students that one does not make a review anymore, that one no longer evaluates them with grades, but even goes so far as to say that if the performance does not fit, you do not need to repeat anyway, you can get up to the next class. I think we should prepare the students for life to be different. Life is trial, life is competition, and life is also struggle. And that, I think, should be shown to the children from a small age: that it is not free that it is not without performance. If one hears that the group of Christian trade unionists demands that teachers be able to punish them again, then immediately the veto comes from the red half of the empire: Don't even get into question! The Carinthian Vice-President of the Council of State Schools says: For God's sake, we must not do that! If, in return, there are reform thoughts on the part of the SPÖ, there are reform thoughts on the part of the Minister, the ÖVP colleagues are again the first to say: No, that's not how it is! If we also think about it and hear that the school system in Austria is one of the most expensive – we are fourth in OECD comparison with our PISA results, we are in the last third – I think, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it would be high time to stand by the Federal Minister when she is willing to ask teachers to be more at school if she requires teachers with a new right to hold more lessons to be more at school for the children. Just from the cost point of view, I think you'd have to force it. It was disappointing for me how, in the budget discussion, the ÖVP was ready to spend 250 million € in schools in order to fall back on the Minister for Foreign Affairs. And from the point of view of tourism, I have to say: If we want €10 million advertising for Austria, it is not possible for the ÖVP to raise the money.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10498	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10519	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We decide today with the novelle of the school education law the standardized maturing exam. This new form of matura makes schooling services comparable, more transparent and in line with international standards. New in the mature exam is the pre-scientific work in which students have to look at a topic that they have chosen in depth and then present it as part of the oral matura. From my own teaching experience, I know that those students who have so far chosen a specialist work or a project work have benefited greatly from such a deepening, can make their own interests, but also school priorities well integrated into this work. I think it is right and good that this pre-scientific work becomes the standard for all students, for it requires independence, work with sources and scientific methods, speaking and expressiveness, and these skills are ultimately also the necessary prerequisite for a subsequent study. Ladies and gentlemen, I see the new Matura with the education standards as an important milestone towards ensuring the quality of our education system. Minister Claudia Schmied has already launched very important measures in her ambitious reform programme: the New Middle School, smaller classes, the teaching with Matura, afternoon care, early promotion of all children, the expansion of political education, career guidance and violence prevention, to name only the most important. Our education system is also increasingly integrative, but the education reform is continuing, since in Austria, education is still strong Depending on the educational level of the parents, social differentiation happens at ten years early, lacks all day school forms and requires more autonomy in school locations. We continue to work together at a school whose principle is based on equal opportunities and gender equality, and at a school that offers the children of different family and cultural origin the best possible possibilities of development, free from any discrimination, because we need the talents and abilities of all children in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10568	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10589	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Brosz has complained here that there would be a need for a law for all day school and that it would be necessary to decide that. I'd like to tell him: This law has already been passed, under Mrs Gehrer. There is the possibility of setting up school autonomously at locations in cooperation with the school partners. So there is this legal basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to talk about the maturity test, which for young people represents an important building block in the educational landscape, which makes it possible to enter higher, in university studies. So it is gratifying that we have managed to create this standardized Matura now or to develop the Matura so that it could be adapted to international standards. It is good that the performance of the pupils is now comparable and therefore the logical further development of the education standards could take place. It is important to me that it has been ensured that the autonomous priorities are taken into account, that the school partners are also included in the Federal mature examination committee, and, of course, that the whole has been put on a broad basis and that the school partners are also involved. If I am still talking about the future development of school life, it seems important to me that school autonomy be expanded, that the free choice of parents remains or is extended. But it is also important – as a representative of the rural area, I would like to stress this in particular – that the Small and Small Schools remain. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All in all, I'm glad that we decide on this law today. It is a further development towards quality, there is better comparability and more transparency. And I'm glad about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10647	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10669	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My colleague Sacher has already said that we really want to see what we decide today, namely the new Matura, as a new Matura and not use other terms. It's really something new. It is an important further step towards a modern, contemporary school. I am also very grateful to the Federal Minister Claudia Schmied for the fact that this educational reform is now being taken step by step and implemented. We want to come to the best school for our youth, and if we want to come to the best school, that means that we don't have the best school yet. We've been better before. I think we all know this. The international tests have proved to us in recent years that we have not gotten better. But with these steps that are now being taken, I think we are on the right path. It's already been said, and I want it as 24. Speaking in this debate, perhaps a short summary: smaller classes, new middle school, day care, all day school forms, teaching with Matura. Everything has been mentioned many times. All these are steps that are already in preparation, which are already partially implemented. One issue that has now played a role in the debate was the question of promoting and staying seated. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of sitting in the truest sense of the word, namely to assist and promote in school in the current school year – instead of staying in a seat and class repetitions in the next school year. It costs a lot of money and doesn't bring anything. I don't realize that someone who closes two objects with insufficient content needs to repeat the eight objects that he may have completed positively. That's crazy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I am in favour of the path of promotion in the current school year and not for the announcement: Then you go into the same class again! – That’s – as I mean – not right. Any euro that is spent on children in schools today will later save € 2 or more for post-schooling, for unemployment support, for social assistance, or for other necessary things that develop in society from the fact that we offer children too little education in schools. Ladies and gentlemen, the new Matura meets international standards – that has already been said. It is a result of wide-ranging discussion, willful discussion with all parties involved, it is a level improvement, and, what is important, a accompanying evaluation will take place. So I think it's right when you say: Today is a very good day for the Austrian schools, but not only for schools, but also for our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10733	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Since there is a request for a separate vote and there is no short break in the sitting to prepare for the vote, I shall put the vote on agenda items 1 to 3 until the end of the vote on Agenda items 4 and 5. [[13:22:06]] 4. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the Government Template (238, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Return of Art Items from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections (349 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Research and Technology on the proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to the Council (Doc. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Return of Art Items from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections and the Law of the 1. On 1 August 1895, the judicial procedure was amended in civil disputes (350 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10781	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Unspoiled. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10809	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are a number of laws that have been passed since 1945, with which Austria has tried to alleviate the injustice committed to the victims of the National Socialist regime. Even if one knew that reparation in the very sense of the word is not possible, all those who were politically responsible in the past 65 years were seeking more justice in order to compensate for reconciliation in order to get into the clean. Today we are dealing with a novel of the Restitution Act from 1998, which had already preceded two laws on the return of art objects. The law of 1998, as well as the other laws in 2001 on restitution and compensation, had a consensus on all parliamentary groups. It was stressed by all Members that it was agreed that legal certainty would apply to all those concerned in Austria from now on. The German Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselmeinte, at that time, made sense that the core of the treaties had to give legal certainty and that this was the basis of the laws. Dr. Andreas Khol, then president of the National Council, called the law firm a final stone of the restitution and compensation legislation. Nevertheless, there should now be an extension of the Restitution Act. We liberals are against the fact that this act of law should now be re-enforced. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals are against the idea that cultural goods should now be extended, so that now – we know this from the restitution report – every beetle collection or any Kolibri collection must be returned. We are also opposed to the need to establish a time and spatial extension of the scope. We are also opposed to extending time limits for the export permit and to extending these provisions to countries and municipalities. All this is not necessary in our opinion, because – you can read it out of the restitution report – the advisory board has already generously interpreted the law. Instead of demanding to comply with the laws now, this revision is intended to ensure that the new law adapts to the saying practice of the Advisory Council. What gives us the most to think, however, is that the Commission for Provenance Research should now be legally anchored. From our point of view, it would be consistent to phase out the Commission's work on provenance research if all cases were dealt with. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This legislative innovation gives the impression that the Commission for Provenance Research is looking for and getting a new field of activity – and is to be set up for all times. For these very reasons we reject the revision and also the request of the Greens, which goes much further. The Greens' request, which could also be called a “Lex Leopold”, goes so far as to see this as an intervention in private property rights. The Museum Leopold is a private foundation and is therefore not covered by the Return Act. The Greens also want to lay down the authority of the Minister in a commitment to restitution on the basis of the statement of an advisory council. This procedure contradicts any kind of legal certainty. Therefore, this request should also be rejected. Address to the Federal Minister responsible: Mrs. Minister, you are accused of the impression that Austria has been deprived of its responsibility to its own history over the last 65 years. – Apart from the existence of various funds, well over 20 laws have been passed since 1945, which can be regarded as reconciliation acts in the future. It would be wise to let them be regarded as worthy and unchanged.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10900	The next speaker was Mrs Ablinger. Also 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10921	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 1984 – and I am referring to the final remark of the colleague Ungelander – an article entitled “A Legacy of Shame” was published in the American art magazine “ARTnews”. It was about Austria's dealings with those art objects that were robbed of Jewish citizens during the time of National Socialism. Although Austria has committed itself in the State Treaty to return stolen assets, this has been – and this article refers to – for a long time only hesitantly or, for example, only if the persons concerned have directly reported to the museums. Very often, some museums were not so interested in knowing who the real owners are. Thus, the “majority of shame” described the broken or ambivalent handling of Austria with the provision in the field of Nazi robbery. The basis of this ambivalent attitude was also certain that until the 1980s, a widespread public opinion was that Austria was the first victim of National Socialism. This had an impact on the way in which Austria formulated or acted on its responsibility for the crimes of the US regime. Only the speech of Franz Vranitzky, then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, here at the Hohen Haus on 8 October. In July 1991, a broader paradigm shift opened. In his remarkable speech, Franz Vrannitzky – I quote – said: “There is a joint responsibility for the suffering that, although not Austria as a state, has brought citizens of that country to other peoples and peoples.” “We confess ourselves to all the deeds of our history and to the deeds of all the parts of our people, to the good as to the evil ones; and as we use the good for ourselves, we have to apologize for the evil ones – with the survivors and with the descendants of the dead.” These clear words were the ones that opened such a big and so necessary discourse about the responsibility of Austria during the Nazi regime. One of these visible effects was the establishment of the Historic Commission in 1998 and here in the House of the unanimous decision on the Federal Law on the Return of Art. All of this was accompanied by a very well-founded series of articles in the “standard” that has always accompanied it. Now it is true that the ten-year practice of this law shows that some provisions are too narrow, especially with regard to the goal of a complete return of worrying stocks of art and other movable cultural goods owned by the federal government. That's why we're going to make this clear, Mrs. Unterlander. What has been robbed is to be returned. The details will be given by my colleagues. We are also discussing the restitution report and the extension of the term of office of the Advisory Board members, which I consider to be correct and important. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and thank you for your competent work. In the Committee, we had a broad majority and then again had the inconsistency of the “closest-stretched debate”. I would just like to say a few words about this: There can be no end of the past. The past always works in the future, even suppressed pasts continue to work – often unconsciously! – and is therefore dangerously charged. We have to deal with responsibility and our past over and over again – and thus new generations too. Let me conclude by writing like André Heller in the beautiful song Leon Wolke, which describes the fate of a Treblinka survival: Yes, this is what Leon Wolke is talking about, and I want you to know, because you can only learn from what you don't forget! Today's decision is in this tradition of never-forgetting, and I'm proud of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e10995	The next speaker will be Mr Jury. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11016	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In this debate, I want to return from the morale-emotionals to the material level. [[Abg. May. Lap: Hello! That was real, too!]] - Please? – honourable Member, I am very sure of your opinion, but in this causa – I believe – you should be able to discuss it objectively as well. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That was not necessary!]] [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schopf: That was real!]] I have to say with regret that the Kärntner State Government did not find any input into this legislative novel in the assessment process of the draft of the present law. These criticisms – as Mrs Unterlander has already said – go about extending the concept of art objects on movable cultural goods. Furthermore, this is the point of the Monument Protection Act, the provision of objects subject to the export ban, and, of course, the five-year extension of this Act from 1938 back to 1933. I know this is a difficult subject. I also know that reparation can never have anything to do with justice. I must, however, praise the Federal Minister for the fact that she has just brought this matter of restoration, this provision to calmer waters. I can only recall a few points under her predecessor, Minister of Education Gehrer: Rothschild Collection, Klimt-Bilder im Belvedere, Prezedenzfall Heiligenkreuz, the Causa Czernin. All of this didn't happen with Minister of Education Schmied. My praise to the Minister of Education! Of course, we would have liked to agree to this legislative matter from the BZÖ. However, there have not been criticisms from the Kärntner state government, and therefore there is no consent from us to this law, just as there will be no consent to Mr Zinggl's request, which is intended only to sprung the Leopold Collection. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: The Criticism of Carinthia...!]] Finally, I would like to point out that, especially in this civil law as a special regulation, matter to be fixed at some point in time, an end-time for the application should be established, as was the case with the materials of the natural restitution of public property. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11111	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11132	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Jury, in politics one should not, in principle, separate the subject matter from the morale. It is precisely on this question, I think, that it is more than necessary to put moral motivations in the foreground, because these have been crucial for us to have adopted this law in 1998 at all. [[Abg. Jury:... not to restore to all eternity!]] In this respect, it is more than justified that today, after ten years, we make some adaptations to the restitution practice. I am very glad that we can present these novels today after extensive and intensive discussions – for it has taken quite some time – and hopefully will also decide, because I think it is an important step and, above all, it will also be included in the continuous efforts of the federal government in restitution issues. On the basis of the law – I have already mentioned it, it was initiated in 1998 – intensive work was done: from the museums, the provenance researchers, but also from the federal government. I think that at this point there must be time to thank these places very much, because of course intensive work is associated with these efforts. Today, we make adjustments and adaptations according to the 10-year replacement practice. These are, above all, clarifications, but also enlargements. As has already been said: They are indeed based on the Commission's experience and, above all, on the activities of the Art Return Council. This amendment includes a number of measures which, above all, are intended to ensure the sustainable continuation of the federal restitution activity – and that is why, Mrs Unterlander, because we are committed to it and consider it to be correct and important! I would like to mention a few points: for example, the extension to other moving cultural goods. It has already shown that art has not only been understood in the narrower sense, namely in the form of paintings, but has already been returned to some piece of furniture or automobile. With the help of this novelle the entire federal property is also to be captured, i.e., not only the federal museums and the collections. We want to be very conscious in time and geographically, because the existing regulations are now also considered too close by our side. The aim of this amendment is, above all, to make clarifications concerning objects which were not subject to a formal provision procedure. These are mainly objects which have been forced to sell under pressure from the export procedure. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in the media, reports have already been read very often, in which there is a more successful – as I believe – restitution, too, quite successful. I am thinking, for example, of the replacement of a maulbert painting of the rightful heirs, which has only recently been recommended by the Art Return Advisory Council. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is our responsibility and also our obligation to ensure a complete return to the legitimate owners and heirs. And that's exactly the goal of today's novelle. I think this is a right and important step and would like to thank the Minister, above all, for the willingness to discuss and for the good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11172	Next, Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl speaking. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11193	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, this is a day of joy today. Although I am only the fifth speaker on this matter, it has been our initiative that has led to such a new law on return. I remember, Mrs. Minister: Not even two years ago, in the Committee on Culture, I pointed out that there is a need for innovation here, and at that time you said no, there is no need for action. And that's what the other parties have joined. This has meant a lot of work for us for two years – and today we are delighted: The Republic has done the right thing ethically and reasonably. It has recognized the mistakes of the past once again and presents itself to these mistakes. I believe that we should not only be proud of the cultural achievements in the past, which we are looking forward to – Mozart, Schiele, Klimt, Schubert and so on – but also, as we are pleased about the achievements, we must always generate again and again for the crimes committed in the past, and we must correct them where this is at all possible. There's no finish line! Just as there can be no end of the celebration, there is no end of the line either. That is, this correction and extension of the return laws was necessary. Robusts have to be returned, otherwise you don't need any more property laws at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, I come to speak a blind spot in this new law. It has already been mentioned, it is about the Leopold Collection. It is excluded here – supposedly because it is a private foundation. We all know that the Republic is hiding behind this private foundation. And it is not possible at all, Mrs Minister, that we reject the fact that we are setting up interministerial groups and then say: Well, you can't do anything, you can't do it by law. – We know this excuse in connection with the laws of return since the fifties, and there have always been laws that could do this very well. Parliament is in favour of changing laws when it is necessary – and in this case it is necessary or necessary. This is also formulated in our request. There is, in turn, a lack of a very clear attitude. Once again, there is a lack of attitude: Robust must be returned – dotum! We are also at the same time in an acute case that has been discussed in recent weeks. It is about the “Image Wally” by Egon Schiele from the Leopold Collection; estimated value: € 3 million. This picture has been being processed in the United States for 11 years, with annual process costs more or less on the part of the Republic of the United States of €500 000. For us it was clear from the beginning that this picture is predatory art. The Court of First Instance in the United States has now found: First, it's definitely predatory art. With this, ladies and gentlemen, this picture is gone. This will never come back to Austria again. Secondly, the Court held: Mr Leopold must have known that when he changed it. From this we can now conclude that Leopold obviously sold a robbed picture about his foundation to Austria. That's actually quite clear. But that's not enough. Now Leopold has been processing this picture for 11 years for annual process costs in the United States – money also away! – of €500 000, in the meantime totals €6 million. That's the double of the image value! Now we can balance together: Austria first bought a picture of its foundation from Leopold. - Get out of here! Austria has been conducting a process worth €6 million for 11 years. - Get out of here! And at the end the picture is still gone! Ladies and gentlemen, this is now a matter of policy – we can completely abandon the emotions: Here the fourfold value of an image is gone, the picture is also gone – because we are constantly watching and so to speak, not putting ourselves to this responsibility. Like you, Mrs Minister, the Minister Gehrer has also done it on this matter. We have been pointing this out all the time for five years. They say you can't do anything. - You can! You can, and we want you to do this!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11272	The next speaker is Mrs Muttonen. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11296	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief comment just before: As you know, Mr Zinggl, independent provenance researchers are working in the Leopold Foundation to find out what the situation is. If we had been involved in a dispute, how to deal with a foundation, it would probably have taken years, and that would not have been in the sense of the timely return of predatory art. On today's novel of the Art Return Act: This is a very encouraging and necessary development. The adjustments have incorporated the experience of the last ten years, and this is why this law can be clarified today. The innovations are very welcome – they have already been mentioned – and I believe it is also important that the mandate to the Commission is ultimately explicitly enshrined in the law. It is very unfortunate that today, with this necessary innovation of common consensus, two parties will obviously leave. In 1998, all parties represented in Parliament had recognised the importance of this Restitution Act – this time, unfortunately, is not given this far-reaching view. Austria has an indisputable historical and moral obligation to return artificial goods that have been robbed during the Nazi period, and we want to fulfil this duty as best as possible. Since 1998, a number of items have been returned on the basis of some 220 advisory recommendations. It was on the 10,000 items. Our goal is the complete return of art objects from the local Federal Museums, which were acquired in an alarming way by them. As my colleague Ablinger has already said: The horrors of the Nazi era cast their long shadows into the present – but not only until then, but we will also have to continue to deal with them. As provenance research shows, information on the origin of objects is still bleak, and the paths through which Nazi predatory art has reached museums, libraries and archives are very swallowed up. Hence, the more important is the continued discussion of the events of the past. With provenance research and the Art Return Act, we also have respectable instruments in international comparison to work out the past. Then: The past is a reality, and it cannot be created from the world, even if we close our eyes and say that it must once be a finish line. There is no such thing as this end! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11345	Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11366	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very pleased that the decision of the Novell on the Art Return Act is coming today. It was impressive that in 1998 a broad majority in Parliament was able to vote in favour of all the parties. So I regret that we did not succeed in motivating all the parties here. Personally, I am particularly pleased that the Commission is able to enshrine the law on provenance research, thereby giving it a basis and also the To regulate the term of office of the Advisory Board accordingly and to fix the term of office by three years. All the other points have already been discussed in greater detail by my previous speakers, especially Mrs Ablinger and Mrs Fuhrmann, which is why I do not want to go further on the details. One point, however, is important to me, Mr Zinggl, because he is always working on both of us in the debate, which is the question of the involvement of the Leopold Museum Privatstiftung in the Art Restitution Act. This was a request already made at one of the first cultural committee meetings in which I was allowed to be represented as a minister. I already have an interministerial working group in the previous legislative period, you mentioned it, dealing with this issue – the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Procuratorship – and the conclusion is clear by law: The Leopold Museum Privatstiftung is, as the name says, a private foundation. We have the constitutional protection of private property, and the Art Return Act can only refer to legal property of the federal government. Legal property of the federal government is a prerequisite, and there can be no forced return in the sense. That would be expropriation. It is therefore not legally feasible. However, since it is a big concern to me and in some way includes the reputation of the foundation and there is, of course, the connection between public funding, with the Board of Directors of the Private Foundation, that now, paid from the federal funds, provenance research is also carried out at the Leopold Museum. There will be a first report – with delays, you know – at the end of the year. Then there will be an evaluation, and then I very much hope that the board of directors of the private foundation will act responsibly and morally. However, I do not think I have to take this into account property rights. I would also like to thank you very much, Mrs Fuhrmann, for the good cooperation in the long-term preparation, for the restitution report, which now appears annually and from my point of view – and I believe I can say here: from our point of view; we have discussed it in more detail – for a good periodic review of the performance, and I would also like to thank Mr Jury for the appreciation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11415	The next speaker is Mr Pack. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11436	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My previous speakers have already mentioned it: The reason for this change is that the advisory board has repeatedly faced problems in restoring worrying items. And it was interesting: The first speaker, Mr Unterlander, has brought quotations from Chancellor Schüssel and then President Khol, who underlined the advantage of the law at that time and stressed what a step we have taken. Despite these praises, however, we have realized that simple changes are necessary. The previous recommendation practice is intended to be ensured by rewording the relevant provisions so that legal certainty can be restored in this area. Problems were – it was just briefly mentioned – that the term “art objects” clearly proved to be too narrowly defined or that the return was limited only to federal museums and collections. The advisory board has been successful, reasonable and good since its inception. Since 1998, 10,000 items have been returned. The extension of the appointment – the Federal Minister has mentioned it – to three years brings, of course, a better planning of the work of the Advisory Council and the staff. It was – and my previous speakers have actually underlined this across all political groups – and is our responsibility to ensure that there can and is a return of art objects to the legitimate owners and heirs. That we are on the right path, on a reasonable path, shows us broad approval. But it also shows us the discussion, insofar as it goes a little too far for one, for the other a little too far that we are right. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is really to be congratulated that you continue this successful path, which has been initiated by Federal Minister Gehrer. [[Call:... that you take the gors into your mouth]] And if we take this decision together, we can make responsible policies here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11480	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11501	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Colleagues of the House! Mrs Unterlander, it is not about the fact that the Commission is dealing with the return of ‘colibrary collections’, as you have mentioned it, or that the Commission has a right to exist, but it is simply about giving back and having to give back the cultural property that is stolen by the National Socialists to the legitimate heirs. It is simply about us that this return should be met as far as possible to 100 percent. There must be no forget, there must be no end-line in this area; this has already been addressed today. It is our obligation, it is Austrian commitment that we deal with our history, and I think that this novelle is being taken another correct and important step in this direction, another correct step towards complete restitution. And that's a very, very good step. It is also our historic duty, Mrs. Unterlander, that stolen cultural property should be returned to the legitimate owners, and this order still exists. We therefore welcome this innovation, and we welcome the time, geographical and content-based extension made with this novelle. It has already been referred to several times today, the term “art object” will be extended by the word “and other movable cultural property”, the empowerment will be extended to direct federal property, the period will be extended by the period from 1933 to 1938 – we also expressly welcome it – and it will also be possible in the future to restore cultural property which was not withdrawn in Austria but in the rest of the territory of the Third Reich. These are all steps that are important and correct, and I am therefore sorry that two parties in this House today do not vote in favour of this law and thus leave a common path that was taken together many years ago. Perhaps you can give your heart a boost and agree with this good novel!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11546	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11568	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The Federal Law on the Return of Art Items from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections was adopted together in 1998 and, as my previous speakers have already stressed, it would have been a beautiful symbol in the sense of our youth and just a few days before the State Day to decide on this novelle together again. These are recommendations from the Commission, an advisory board, and there has been a wide-ranging preliminary phase for this. As early as 1998, the Commission for Provenance Research was set up under the then Federal Minister. [[Abg. Neubauer: Is the “State Day ” or “National Day ”?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Abg. New builder) But now you've needed a long time!]] In years of ever-increasing work, it has scrutinized more than 10,000 objects meticulously. This work should be appreciated by all of us today, and the thanks to this Commission should actually be expressed by all of us. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] Restitution is a historic duty that the Republic of Austria must best fulfil. This novel is another important step towards compensation. There will never be a full compensation, but this is certainly a contribution to alert our coming generations to the fact that injustice should never be justified in the long term. We need a law that allows the Restitution Advisory Council to carry out its activities on a very clear legal basis. Therefore, the Foundation Leopold, as requested by Mr Zinggl, is not currently possible. There is, however, the possibility of making available funds for research. That you want to intervene in private property rights, I think, you also have to carry outside. However, there is still a joint interministerial working group here, which has concluded that the Federal Government's intervention in this ownership of the foundation is not possible. The intervention in ownership is restricted, which we should also respect, but today we should use the broad agreement to continue the work together, to create the framework conditions for it, and to remind you together that, historically, heirs also have a right to the return of unlawfully acquired cultural goods. It can't be a question of generations when it ends. Therefore, today's novelle is also an important part of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11627	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. Also 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11648	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! With the return of art objects, the Republic has taken a very long time. Each other. As many speakers have mentioned today, we unanimously decided here in 1998 to adopt our historical work on the issue of past management. Ladies and gentlemen, The law has been in force since 1998. Laws are always about adapting them, making necessary adjustments. If ten years ago a law was passed to deal with the past, it cannot be assumed that this is, so to speak, ground in stone and must not be changed. Enlargements in the ownership of the federal government, which we decide today, are very important. Mrs Unterlander, this is not just about collaborating and collecting the beetles. To the colleague of the regional party BZÖ, who very strongly wishes to position the opinion of the country of Carinthia, I would like to say that I believe we are Members of the Austrian Parliament. Of course, we also have our regional priorities, but I believe that we also need to look further and deal with the history in a comprehensive way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's this about? What are the adaptations of this law? – It is about extending the period to the years 1933 to 1945. It is a legislative anchoring of the Commission for Provenance Research. Here, too, a clear commitment by the legislator to defining the work of this Commission, holding it in the legislative text and not seeing it as a voluntary task of our Republic, but as an important measure. There is also an extension to movable cultural goods, and the activity of the Advisory Council is extended to three years. Here too, a commitment to the important tasks and activities of the Advisory Council. All Advisory Board members work on a voluntary basis. So, I mean, we also express our appreciation for this work. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, history and past management must not stop. They'll lead to the future. We have a similar sign here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11699	The next speaker was Mr Höfinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11721	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As the debate has shown so far, the range of speeches ranges from excitement, disillusionment, disappointment, and unappropriate cheers or joys. I don't think that's necessary. This is a very sober subject, on which we can talk quite openly, because the basis is the Restitution Act from 1998, a law on which we all stand, to which we all confess and which was also agreed by all together at that time. And now, after more than ten years, it makes sense to develop and supplement this law. And that's exactly what is being done here today. In fact, what is against the fact that the period will be extended by six years? What about simplifying the resolution, or what about improving for the Commission in provenance research? - Nothing! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the experience of recent years has just shown that the return to the rightful owners or de- It is also appropriate to include moving cultural goods and direct federal property. And that is what is being implemented here today, essentially a very practical, practical development. Since the law was adopted unanimously at that time, I can only invite everyone today to agree to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11760	The next speaker was Mr Sacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11781	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today's decision-making is a step more of Austria's culture, especially in the sense of political culture, when we discuss and decide on the extension or recast of the law on the return of robbery. All the more so, as a cultural politician, I am very disappointed that there is no more unanimity as in the first decision-making process and that the Liberal Party in particular excludes itself, but also the BZÖ. I've got a press release on the 7th. On the other hand, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. I can't save you that. I only quote the first sentence, Mrs Colleague. That's what it says: “Since 1945, there have been a number of laws and regulations dealing with the subject of restitution....” [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right too!]] Just behind that is a certain thought. Innumerable! – I mean, reparation for past crimes cannot take place well enough and not often enough. In this sense, you like to write this in the main book. I quote: “An extension of the law, such as this..., is absolutely not necessary and goes too far.” Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Where do you want to stand? What's your point of view? Where is the end of the process of history and events? I mean, you're gonna stop with the fight, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A third quote from this press release: ‘It should not be seen why deadlines should be extended.... It is also not necessary to extend this provision to the restitution of countries and communities from a liberal point of view". Ladies and gentlemen, this is very necessary, because these institutions and local authorities also often have raw materials in their museums. I would like to give you an example of where a city community has voluntarily acted, namely from the city of Krems, from which I come, where we have already voluntarily returned very valuable paintings, such as Krems Schmidt, to the legitimate owners. I can remember – and I believe I am not fooled – that the votes against came from the free corner of the country at that time. By the way, there are only two of the FPÖ in the Krems municipality council, which in turn is a benefit. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Get back!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot of things open, and I therefore welcome the involvement of municipalities and other institutions. I am very much in favour of adopting this law with the greatest possible majority today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11840	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11862	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy has always been a concern to this law. I think it should have been implemented before 1998. In these ten years of practice, it has just become apparent that some provisions are too restrictive and therefore a complete return of dubious federal holdings was not always possible. That shouldn't be the point. Full return should not be made impossible with illegitimate arguments. It is simply and simply a question of the propriety and morality that this is possible. These adjustments to the law – new formulations are being made today – will give greater legal certainty. Many areas have already been mentioned. Two things that seem very important to me: This is the extension of the expression “art objects. ” I think that objects of historical, artistic and other cultural importance can be restored is a very important thing. The second point is the export of certain items for which an authorisation is required under the Monument Protection Act. A derogation had to be found for this purpose. It was, as I believe, found a very common compromise, which will apply to the restored items in the future 25 years from the date of conformity and will also include the countries and communities. I would like to stress briefly that 220 advisory meetings have been held and more than 10,000 art items have been restored. A working group has been set up in respect of the return of art objects which are not in federal ownership. The Federal Minister has already pointed out that constitutional provisions set certain limits. However, I hope that we will also come to a decent solution on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11902	The next speaker was Mr Hübner. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11923	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The statements made by some colleagues here cannot and should not be contradicted. I have heard more of the words, it is about the provision of stolen goods to the legitimate owners. These words have been used by colleague Ablinger, including Mr Zinggl, I have mentioned, and Mrs Königsberger. I have the feeling, Some have not read the law. The law only applies to cases where the Republic of Austria is the legal owner of these art items, both in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2. According to paragraph 1, a condition is that the goods to be resettled have been transferred to the property of the Republic of Austria by someone to whom it has already been restored after April 1945. That is, we are dealing here with cases where there has been a restitution of robbery, cases in which this property has been transferred with knowledge, will of the owner to the Republic of Austria and which are now subject to a request for return. That's probably not a case of restitution of robbery. It should be admitted that all these cases are related to the special post-war situation in which many people have had a great interest in carrying out art objects from Austria. Austria was a market without purchasing power, a market in which art was not worth anything. This has been the case for the rest of the world, especially the rest not destroyed during the war, namely on America. There was a great interest in bringing out restored goods from Austria. There has only been a strict restriction in Austria since 1918 on the export of cultural objects which are part of our heritage. There is the Art Export Act of 1918 and then the Monument Protection Act since 1923. These are the foundations of this law. This is the subject of the proceedings which the Reserving Commission has dealt with. However, this provision commission went far beyond what was contained in the actual law of 1998. Now we are trying to understand this by allowing the saying practice or the recommendation practice of this Commission to be incorporated into the law. I do not want to say that the cock is weaving with the dog here, but the Commission is reeling with the Republic of Austria. This is probably a sufficient reason for us to deal with this novel somewhat more critically. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second and even more problematic part of the whole legislative matter is the continuing exception of these items from the export provisions. In Austria, there is still the Monument Protection Act, which states that objects of certain value may not be exported without special authorisation, which can only be approved in very special, very restrictive cases. So far, we have a 25-year derogation period for all items to be restored under this law, a period which has thus started in 1998. Now this period is to be extended again and is to start only after the good has been restored. So the deadline will never end as long as it is restored. The procedure is unlimited. The law is unlimited. Restitution may continue for all eternity. That is, the deadlines run forever and ever. At least this is not compatible with our principle of equality, that a very special group of people is forever excluded from the laws for the protection of our cultural property, our cultural heritage. No one can explain that to me. This alone should be enough for anyone who thinks more critically about the whole matter to reject the novelle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11985	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on the Return of Art Items from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections, together with the title and entry into 238 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Culture to take note of its 350 Supplements report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:16:30]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 3
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12045	We now proceed to the vote on Agenda items 1 to 3, which I make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the School Education Act in 345 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Dr Walser, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall be voting separately on paragraph 7(42j) of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are voting for this part of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 345 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 50.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, ladies and gentlemen, on the safeguarding of small and medium-sized schools. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the BIFIE Act, together with the title and receipt in 339 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Teaching Practice Act and the Examination Tax Act – schools/edagogic universities, including title and entry into 342 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:23:10]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (330, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Asylum Act 2005, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Fees Act 1957, the Basic Supply Act – the Federal Government 2005, the Settlement and Residence Act, the Citizenship Law 1985 and the Expulsion Act 1972 (Frägdenrechtsammengesetz 2009 – FrÄG 2009) (387 d.b.) 7. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Foreign Employment Act (388, e.g.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 274/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the field of DNA-tests for immigration control (390 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12195	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Rosenkranz spoke on the floor. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12225	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! “We must prevent further immigration from foreign cultures.” There is no question of immigration as a means of combating aging. “The migration of people from the East of Anatolia or Black Africa does not solve the problem, only created an additional big problem.” – words of the old chancellor of the SPD Helmut Schmidt in 2005. And since then, nothing has changed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to be clear about this, and we have to say it again and again: The whole area of asylum is not about those who are indeed threatened with persecution worldwide for political, racial or religious reasons, but about those who use our legal situation shamelessly and come here through schinasyl procedures to enjoy hidden immigration using all the money and social benefits of the state of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is indeed enough to do to stop that. Mrs Rudas has just said that we must become a country of education in number one. I agree. In another area, we are already on the best way to become number one. Among the countries where asylum is most concerned, we are already in fourth place behind Malta, Cyprus and Greece. This should mean thinking of what our little country has to do with this, not to mention that we are not even surrounded by a Schengen external border. And yet we learn that in trucks hidden Kurds from Turkey are entering the Schengen area and taken up in Austria, half of which are then found in the Federal Republic of Germany under our laws, but which are sent back to Austria by corresponding agreements, in particular Dublin. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in this area with this novel on the individual laws. And here I say that this is actually nothing but a suspicion of removing various loopholes, if you want to put some abuse in detail in terms of deadlines, complicated procedures or the like. But it's just the little things that are going on here. If a newspaper writes, it's finally coming up with an intensification, then I have to say that's too little for an intensification. This novelle is just a reluctance to provide for appropriate legal provisions, and, as has been said, it is only a matter of small things that appear in practice in some form. One tries to shape here – but far too little to actually get hold of asylum abuse in Austria in some form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our demands are quite clear: We need to control the borders again. We must suspend Schengen. And if I have read, the first politician demands border controls or a blockage of borders, namely the mayor of Burgenland, then I wonder if the journalists have slept, because we free politicians have been demanding this in the House for months. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We too!]] – Also the BZÖ, but I suppose you will be able to mention this, you have already made it in an earlier post. It's gonna wake up here! And if even the editor-in-chief of the newspaper “ÖsterREICH” insists that the borders now have to be closed in order to become master of asylum abuse, not only of crime, then this should also give the majority in this House to think that with such a reform, with such a innovation, which is actually nothing more than a referendum, a mini-novelling, no state is to do to combat the evil at the root.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12276	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12298	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are on the right path with this new law, and I believe that it has a very important and right goal, namely to speed up asylum procedures, to stop abuse and all those for whom there has been a negative asylum notice, to bring out of the country as soon as possible, to quickly deny the right of residence and to take swift measures to end the stay. Ladies and gentlemen, this novel is in line with the rule of law, our legal order, is social and human above all in my eyes. It will bring about a significant increase in efficiency: the thrust, the Dublin process. We know very well, and the practice also shows that asylum seekers always withdraw from the procedure and subside. It is therefore also important that the territorial restriction has been extended to the duration of the authorisation procedure and that the time limit for appeal to Dublin procedures is set for a week. Accelerating a procedure means that the asylum seekers can be required to participate in the process from the outset, and that is why this territorial restriction is a very important point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Also, the measures against criminal asylum seekers – expulsion procedures, accelerated procedures, withdrawal procedures, withdrawal of subsidiary protection in the event of a criminal offence – are, as I believe, very important measures against criminal asylum seekers. We all agree here in the House that we must stop abuse, and this means that there can only be more limit in the case of negative asylum applications. 80 percent of all asylum applications are follow-up applications. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But there are!]] – Yes, yes, that is why we have to deal with this and, if possible, make such follow-up proposals. Foreign police measures following an asylum procedure that has already been completed are constantly being dragged away by new asylum applications – and that will no longer happen in the future. We also know that a great many abstain from the procedure. 200 applicants per month are on and on average, and it is therefore important to implement these measures. On the subject of Vigilance: The fact that we are making changes is certainly correct and important, but it cannot be so that different parties here in the house are constantly required to move more people off – and these are opposed if we want to create additional facilities in order to be able to implement them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and BZÖ, I really ask you to consider this again, because it is very important to show more solidarity to the other federal states – for example, to Lower Austria and Upper Austria – and it is also very important, as Mrs Federal Minister Fekter said, that there is also a hub in the south of Austria. However, this new legislation also includes a very important definition of age, so that it is possible to carry out radiological investigations in this respect, which allows for the elimination of abuse in relation to incorrect age data. Of course, it is also important that there is the possibility of having claimed family membership checked by means of DNA investigations. This legislative innovation therefore includes important measures to stop abuse in this area or to speed up the procedures. Of course, we must also try to bring all those who cannot show asylum grounds out of the country as soon as possible. I'm sure: With this novel, we're on the right track. I would like to thank Mrs Fekter for her thoughts on presenting this novel in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12356	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12378	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The main problem has already been addressed in the early days, precisely because of our objection debate at a time when people were still able to follow our debate on television. Mrs Minister, I will also show you what the “Kronen Zeitung” has said: ‘Fear reigns at the eastern border.’ [[The speaker keeps a copy of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date.]] This is not something that was invented by the “evil” liberals or by the “evil” BZÖlers, but that is now about two thirds of the Austrians. Two thirds of the Austrians are concerned and believe – rightly – that the border opening in accordance with the Schengen Treaties is the decisive reason for an increase in crime in Austria. It is not for nothing that the heads of state of the oats have already emerged; they are breaking out of this federal government from the alliance of the sluggish and the negligents of this fact: Niessl, Pröll, all of you suddenly get into our line and say: Yes, it is the opening of the borders of one of the main problems for increasing crime, for the rising foreign crime in Austria! You can no longer discuss this, Mrs. Innenminister – and if you do, then you have an expert policy, at least a policy that is not to be taken seriously. That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution today, in the sense also of the Heads of State, because we take seriously the concerns of the Austrians, of which two thirds say that the opening of borders is to blame for this enormously increased crime rate. [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is high in time – as has been the case before – to temporarily suspend the Schengen treaties and finally raise the borders again so that a clear signal against crime in Austria is put in place. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We make this request because you do not want to do so because you try to sell every novel – and every half year you do some novel of the Xenophobia Act – again and again outside, there was a more stringent right of foreigners, and you would do something anyway; there would be less immigration and less crime. Only: It's not like that – and as it were, it's going on more and more. Their novelties on foreign law and asylum law have actually done nothing at all. In the context of asylum law alone You will be sure to compare: From 2001 to 2007 – the BZÖ in the government, together with the ÖVP – there have suddenly been only more than 10,000 asylum applications in 2001 in 2007. So we have been threatening the number of asylum applications, because we have made it clear with a strict immigration policy that this is not so easy for us. Now, after a year of new major coalition, there is an increase in the number of asylum applications by 33 percent. Now, logically, one has to say, because Austria is now considered the fifth most effective country of asylum in Europe and it is already talking around in Europe, yes, all over the world: We can go to Austria, because there we yell asylum! – and already we are admitted, we are already being pardoned; and even if we become criminal there, nothing happens to us! It is quite a pity to the rule of law, to all the regulatory measures taken here if you differentiate in the case of criminality for the recognition of asylum status: If one stands in front of the national court, we start a criminal proceedings, then he is criminal, then we start an asylum procedure – but if he is in front of the District Court, then we are not. I know that there are also concerns in the ÖVP about such a regulation. Mrs. Minister, why do you allow today an asylum seekers who commits a theft, the injury of the body, to be postponed only in the event of a repetition?- Oh, my God! That means that this is just an invitation; so according to the motto: For the first time, everyone's got a shot free! Wonderful; nothing happens at all the first time; only the second time you are even punishable! That's a completely false signal you're setting here! And we want to keep that from the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, another request, so that everyone is aware of what we are saying: Resolution of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the concept of criminality in the Asylum Act 2005 The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for the Interior is asked to send a draft law to the National Council, which defines the concept of criminality in the Asylum Act 2005 as follows: A foreigner has become guilty in the sense of this federal law if he has been legally sentenced for a judicial offence committed on his own initiative.’ This should be the principle: If someone comes to our country and requests asylum, but becomes criminal, then he has played out this asylum application, so to speak, and has to be postponed. This is our opinion, expressed by this motion for a resolution. I would also like to make a third motion for a resolution, which has already been debated in the Committee. I am very excited today whether the ÖVP will at least vote in favour. You have said in the Committee that you do not think it unreasonable and will look at it, namely fingerprints on your identity cards. There are two forms: the identity card for strangers and the patient card; however, none of these cards are provided for a fingerprint – and I am already wondering: why not? For all other documents – passports, entry documents – a fingerprint is required, but we in Austria issue identity cards without falsifying fingerprints, which, of course, opens the door and door again to abuse. Therefore, the following request: Resolution of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on fingerprints in identity cards for strangers and cards for patients The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for the Interior is invited to forward to the National Council a draft law which implements the storage of papillary line prints on cards for patients according to § 46a FPG and identity cards for strangers according to § 94a FPG for the identification of foreign persons.” That's what I think is important. Mrs. Minister, what you are doing with these laws is really nothing but a housing for criminal foreigners – despite the highest crime, despite the highest unemployment rate, despite the highest unemployment rate, despite the highest social costs we have in our country! The follow-up solution contained in the law was also fired by all experts in hearing by the sun and the moon, especially by a truly recognized expert, Professor Raschauer, who said that, in principle, every follow-up request is suspected of being brought in only to delay the procedure, and who pointed out that it was actually in Austria There are legal procedures, just as in the ordinary civil or criminal proceedings, where there is some time, where there is a judicial judgment against which there is no longer any appeal. But, suddenly, further proposals can be made for asylum seekers. This is absurd, and we therefore want follow-up proposals to be abolished in principle. Then abuse is no longer possible and then a delay is no longer possible. Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we also have a problem of execution that the foreign police are not at all in a position to carry out judicial deportation decisions. And it has also told you an expert in the committee that often to be done deportations lie with the foreign police for months and simply will not be postponed, although it would already be feasible. I think it would be too. Their task is to look at in execution why there are no foreign police deadlines for deportation. There are no deadlines! If there's a notice, the foreign police doesn't have a deadline where she says: Until then, he or she must have been taken out of the country! This does not exist at all – even a mistake, because it seems to have been overlooked and not repaired in this law. Mrs Minister, I would like to finish by conciliatingly saying: There is at least one point that we welcome – a demand that we have been making for many years – which at last makes it possible to apply methods of investigation for the determination of old age, because abuse is also being carried out. It was only recently that a 33-year-old spent himself as a 17-year-old, only to be able to gain benefits here. We see a long-standing demand here implemented that God is grateful – but unfortunately only half-hearted again, because there are no consequences if someone does not undergo this investigation. There are no consequences! Therefore, this solution will be only diaper-soft and will ultimately not be implemented satisfactorily. All in all, Mrs Minister, this is an attempt to speed up procedures. The real problem of mass immigration and the crime of immigration is not going to be mastered by this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12583	I say that the three motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12729	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. Set speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12751	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Westenthaler, if only a delicate legislative matter is insecure, different legislative instruments are permanently mixed together, then you must not be surprised if you are criticized how you make your arguments here. To criminalise in general, Mr. colleague... – Every crime is too much! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (a copy of the “Kronen Zeitung” with the headline “The fear reigns at the eastern border”) Is this uncertainty?]] But all of this has nothing to do with the continuous mixing of several legislative matrices. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] If “it” never wants to thank you somewhere, you just need to say it; I personally like to do it because it is one of the good relations, but let me personally, but also on behalf of my group, make a clear statement here: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Grosz: What is ‘it’, Mr. Deputies?]] All those who are entitled to seek asylum will and should also be granted it in the future, but for those who are trying to circumvent our right to asylum, we have foreseen in this novel that abuse will be eliminated. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] In addition, measures have to be taken – and there has always been consensus here in the house – ensuring that we come to rapid procedures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of all three opposition parties, if we take legal action by the rule of law, this is a rule of law procedure – and that is to be concluded. [[Abg. Grosz: “It”!]] – It won’t be better, you can call in as much as you want! I would like to express my thanks to all the experts involved in hearing, all who have been negotiating and consulting for weeks and months. With this innovation, we will now proceed quickly, with the consequence that, when the procedure is over, we will undertake the necessary deportation. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we will make it clear in Lower Austria that you are always demanding everything, but every discharge measure was against it. No matter what location has been taken into the discussion, you have all been against it immediately. That is how this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be dealt with in such an important and sensitive way! Take note of this! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's the way it is!]] In connection with what the head of state of Lower Austria said a few days ago, I would like to tell you – I say this as one who comes from this district – that: Shame all of you, because what Lower Austria, especially the city of Traiskirchen, has been doing for decades, is worth seeing, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition! But you only operate polemics, and that on the back of the people – I have to say that clearly – and also the Austrians, those people who live here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let's not make it too easy! This may not be the case in day-to-day policy, especially in the political slang, especially when there are elections, but this is a question of justice, of fundamental values, of European rights, of human rights, but also of our rule of law. [[Abg. Grosz: You won't win any more elections, and that's been for years!]] And we have a novel here, which takes all these issues into account, and where there is nevertheless a rapid procedure and simplification, including as far as work is concerned. Another open word: As already agreed in the Government Convention, we have tried to bring about a modern, efficient structure for the foreign police services. Who were the ones who made what was the first thing the Federal Minister had to do with it? [[Abg. Grosz: “It”!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you should think about what you say outside the regions, what you say in the cities and in the communities across Austria and what you express here. I would like to invite you to this and express it here: We must once again discuss the question of an additional point of entry, the question of a hub of competence, but also the question of the fair distribution of quotas between the federal states. Besides Vienna, Lower Austria and Upper Austria, no one fulfils the quota. Ladies and gentlemen, not only should we always criticise and polemise, but we should also work on this important central issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying: All of us – Mrs. Federal Minister, including your house, your staff – are required to look in full that the legal provisions we are creating here are also implemented accordingly. However, I would also like to see this opportunity – and this is because everyone is always talking so well – to thank those ladies and gentlemen, those colleagues who have always had to do this heavy duty, even here from the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I invite you to express our common thanks to the Members of the Executive and the Administration. It's not a beating boy – it's easy to "smooth" and talk well – but they're doing a heavy duty. [[Abg. Grosz: “It”!]] It’s good if “it” doesn’t thank you – we thank you, just don’t be afraid! [[Abg. Grosz: “It”!]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that with this novel, we are bringing about the change that allows us to proceed to rapid procedures, to carry out fair procedures and to eliminate abuse. If we are discussing this matter of law, we should consider: There too we always discuss people! And I think humanity should be preserved. Therefore, once again: Those who rightly need our help should also receive them, and the abuse by those who are trying to exploit this system, we will simply turn off with this novel – in the interests of the people, in the interests of our home country!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12957	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12979	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at the gallery! It has been said here more often: A decision taken once, particularly in asylum matters, should be respected and accepted; no further steps should be taken by the asylum seekers. I would like us now to look at the attitude of those who shout loudest in this matter, such as the BZÖ. How does the BZÖ, how do individual members of the BZÖ deal with judicial decisions, with court decisions when it concerns itself? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You'd just push me off!]] A concrete example: Mr Ing. Westenthaler, who was accused of false testimony and after the first decision – that was a judicial decision – the independent Austrian court said that it was a political judgment and he, Westenthaler, refused to accept the condemnation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You'd rather push me off!]] Quote Westenthaler: There's no judgment, there's a judge's ruling that won't hold! – He was the victim of a politically colored justice. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Pilz says that too!]] So talk, ladies and gentlemen, dear viewers in the gallery, those people who scream the loudest and say: If a person is rejected the asylum application, he has to accept it, for that has been a rule of law! But if you are concerned yourself, this is obviously much less true, Mr Westenthaler! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Westenthaler has the status of a rule of law – and that is good! – made use of its law and went into appeal. Ing. Westenthaler did not win this appeal, but the sentence was largely confirmed; however, the penalty was reduced from nine months to six months, but the conviction was maintained. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, lowered!]] The comments of Mr Westenthaler following the appeal judgment were that this was a judicial farce; there was a scandal of justice. So, ladies and gentlemen, those who ask for asylum seekers, in part about life and death, are: Accepted if a judgment was passed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the handling of legal rights with the rule of law. He should not apply to them himself, but only to the weakest of our society. Well, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the real problems of asylum seekers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is the consequence: push off Westenthal!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] First: There is no independent advice for people who do not have the power of the national language, who do not know our legal system, who cannot legally resist any wrong decisions. This was carefully turned off by Ms Fekter, Minister of the Interior, so that there are as few vocations as possible – and all of this goes on under the title of “procedural acceleration”. It is known that people can also make very quick and short procedures and do this negatively without looking at the content of their concerns. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] Second major problem in the field of asylum: Many protection seekers are in charge. I now call you specific figures, which are directly related to the intensification of these laws, which are to be adopted today with the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP. Since the 1990s, these laws have been constantly and ever tightened. I say it quite clearly and clearly at this point: If law-enhanced asylum and integration problems were to be solved, we should not have any problems for at least ten years, because you have intensified these laws for 20 years. [[Abg. Kößl: The law has not been affected at all, only the execution!]] The opposite is the case: The problems are getting more and more! In 2005, 600 asylum seekers were in charge; in 2006, 2,700 people had already landed in custody because they had applied for asylum. By the way, this was 31 percent of those in work in 2006; 31 percent of those in work in 2006 were asylum seekers. [[Abg. You're not honest! It must be said that there have been procedures and these have been negative!]] Third topic: Basic care. – Well, we have a basic provision for people who have sought asylum, because they must not work as we know. Something they need to eat and somewhere they have to sleep. Only: This basic provision is so low that NGOs who provide and accommodate asylum seekers have been sorry for years that they have not been able to accept this money that it is not possible to organize shelter and food for asylum seekers with the money available to the State for basic care. [[Abg. Neubauer: Because it's too many!]] But what happens? – Instead of addressing and resolving the real problems in the asylum system, the government groups are presenting an intensification after the other; the recent intensification is now under way. And this will bring: more provocative, pushy up to ten months! Imagine being detained without a crime, without even having done anything, for up to ten months – and that in the rule of law of Austria! Further tightenings will be: Restriction of freedom of movement, the so-called territorial restriction, which reads as follows: When I am housed in Traiskirchen and allow me to drive to Vienna to visit a lawyer or independent legal counseling, I can be put in charge! [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: That's wrong!]] – Read your own government template! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Stay with the truth! Don't tell fairy tales here!]] Next alignment: People who live legally in Austria should not receive a visa as long as possible, because they have to prove a much higher income. – Do you know what that means? – An illegalization of people who live here quite legally and regularly. [[Abg. Grill: That is deliberately said wrong! That's irresponsible!]] The same applies in the case of naturalisation: If you submit an application for the award of Austrian citizenship and say that you have been legally living in this country for years and therefore want to confess yourself to the state of Austria and become an Austrian/Austrian, then you must not do so if you have not had a lot of income in the last three years. And you know what happened? – In 2006, there was the last intensification of the Citizenship Act – and since then the naturalisation figures have decreased by 60 percent. By 60 percent! [[Demonstrative applause with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] They demand integration all the time, but: Integration includes equal obligations and equal rights. And the same rights can only be obtained in Austria with citizenship. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: Citizenship is the end of successful integration! If it is not given, there is no citizenship!]] What you broke in with the Republic of Austria is a des integration policy, a policy of right-wing refugees and asylum seekers. Now an appeal to all the Members of this House: Ladies and gentlemen, not only have you been set up by your party, but you are committed to the Austrian population! [[Demonstrative applause with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The European Convention on Human Rights is in the constitutional rank in our country – and that is a good thing. That is to say, as a Republic, we have committed ourselves to protecting people who are seeking protection, to protect them and not to tread human rights, but to respect human rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You are confusing abuse now!]] Give yourself a back and leave They do not agree that asylum seekers will be deprived of their rights and that integration will continue to be impossible – otherwise you will have to answer the problems that our country will face in the next few years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13328	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 6 to 8 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:17]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance concerning “System Grasser” and the will of the ÖVP to solve the machinations in a complete manner (3357/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13361	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 3357/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13598	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Kogler as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13635	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, you are here – the APA was obviously misinformed and meant that you would be represented by the Secretary of State. Should that have been so intentioned, I certainly respect you that I trust you that you have a feeling, a sense of questions that will still be relevant in the future. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: those who touch Parliament!]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: You already notice that?- Oh, my God!]] It is indeed about future issues, although we have recently found that a majority here in the house can no longer hear the name of Karl-Heinz Grasser – nevertheless. Why is this about the future and why is it first about dealing with the past? – It is simply a matter of restoring confidence in the institutions of the Republic if finance ministers behave as your predecessor did. It is about fulfilling our task here in Parliament, in a democratic system in which there is indeed thanks to God, appropriate checks and balances, and following things that have happened there. But now not primarily to roll this up once again for the sake of rolling up, but to make provision for the fact that, Mr. Kopf, you were also a Member of Parliament at the time, this will not happen without further notice. I say this without irony! It is true that – and this is also one of political parties, and this is part of our system – in the drive to gain power and retain power at the stage, of course, one thing or another can happen. That's it. It is also for the ÖVP that it sets out its actions here, very successful – how long have you been in the government now?, since 1986, I think – but there are just a few operational accidents happening, and we need to reorganise them. And it should be especially in your interest that a few things be finally clarified here, so that a final line can be reached. So: Don't be afraid it's never too late to turn back! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:... the Bible!]] – That is why I say it: because you understand it more easily. Now it's time to see if the exercise will really succeed. I'm just telling you: Take this as an offer, at least not only as an attack! [[Call the ÖVP: Well!]] How's all this going? ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website There has been an actual change of regime in many respects, and that after an election campaign, the party leader of the ÖVP has said: [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Obmann!]] If we become third parties, we're going to opposition! – The third place has just gone out, not with the opposition anymore. [[Abg. Rädler:... don't talk! They're getting too far!]] At any rate, the ÖVP has managed to bring about this change of regime. [[Abg. Dr. Plassnik: Watch out for a little!]] - Yes, yes! That's it! I'll tell you what it was: More private, less state! - That was your call for battle. [[Abg. Wheelers:... Politics!]] That's what you're allowed to do. We are not discussing today the actual privatisation process, we are discussing how a finance minister, whom you have enabled him to get into this position at all, then used this ideological battle call for himself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] And now we're where it's about: It is about the Grasser system and it is about whether the ÖVP has favoured this over a fee and whether it is willing to contribute to the investigation in the future, and also whether it is ready to draw a final line. Unfortunately, we must assume that the ÖVP-old will still be such, that is, an old one. – But as I said, you have a chance afterwards. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] More private, less state – this has been taken seriously. [[Abg. Wheelers: You're getting too far out! ... done!]] More private, less state. What was the characteristic of the system grasser? [[Abg. Grill: There's nothing new about it!]] Many private friends have been served at the expense of the taxpayer. – This is at least once a partial knowledge of this matter. More private, less state. – The Grasser system has led to the use of its friends at the expense of taxpayers. That can't be denied anymore! You do not have to be desperate to sink here, Mr President. We have also copied into you the passages of the Court of Auditors' report so that you can stay there a little bit before you rush into it. But if that is the case, we must also ask ourselves what the system costs of the system were, and they were not too tight! First of all, it's quite a financial matter – I'm going to deal with what actually caused financial damage – but there's something like ethnic damage, political-ethical damage. I would not say how this has done a party friend of Grasser, that Grasser is a moral squirrel, because that does not hit the problem – that is the completely wrong category – because it is about which system of political ethics he first got into, or who then allowed him to “act” in that way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] It's perfectly clear what it was about: As a result, it was where he had personal responsibility, quite certainly also mismanagement through the economy of friends. What did he come with? – New Economy: Wonderful, New Economy! Finally, it turned out that it was “Management by Friends Economy”. We will have to go through a few examples here in the house with which this can be proved irrefutable. The note that the courts are now investigating – in order to get to this core point, because you have prevented the investigation committee the last time – will not be enough, because it is not only – and now we are at the heart of the urgent request – that it will have to be criminal responsibility, it will also have to be with the seriousness of the accusations, but it will also be about how a political system can allow a finance minister to act in this way. It is not only about the BUWOG scandal, but it is also about his friends Hochegger and Meischberger being provided with public funds in many other areas – you will hopefully answer here today how much that was in which place. Another point of this political decline, which actually took place there, is the fact that – by the way, it would have led to the withdrawal of the Minister of Finance in any other Western European country – that the Minister of Finance would be able to raise money from the industry and then not even pay the corresponding taxes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You're listening to that on the 17th. Sometimes, but with your inconsistency there's a danger that you'll have a 18. Sometimes, for as long as things have not been pursued and clarified to a minimum – precisely from the principle of democratic hygiene, precisely from the principle that Parliament is responsible – you will hear this over and over again. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I would like to draw your attention to your task, Mr President: It is not your job to represent a mandate here and then to prevent this information; Your task is exactly the opposite. You should also represent that in your constituency! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wheeler:... your constituency?]] By the way, I do not know why you are still so opposed to it when it comes to the fact that here – we do not even say that all questions should be clarified, but the most essential – the most essential questions of the Grasses’ errors and mismanagement are being resolved so that we and thus you as the ÖVP can finally come to a new beginning. [[Abg. Wheeler: What do you want? What's this about?]] If we turn to the allegations that actually exist here, then you will see in the case of the Buwog – without going into complicated details – that a consistent principle of the pure economy of friends has been “powered” from the first second to the end of the contract, and will now be followed – not only by us in a committee of inquiry, but also by the public prosecutor – who at the end has still cut it. I do not assume that the representative of the ÖVP was there, so you should hold back a little more to avoid directing this suspicion. But how did the game start? – Plach, at the time already a good acquaintance of Grasser, has been placed in the supervisory councils of the state-owned housing cooperatives, although he was one of the most powerful and financial real estate brokers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] That must have been grasser aware, you must have known that. Why did you watch the drift? – That alone is incompatible! Plach has played an essential role in a Commission which, on the other hand, should choose another force to deal with the sale of the Buwog apartments. So one has been looking for a consultant company – by the way and in the outcome, according to the Court of Auditors, much too expensive, no wonder. Because of this consultation process, a company has come to the train – again: oh wonder! – in which another close confidant of Karl-Heinz Grasser was with from the game, Mr. Muhr: much overstated prizes, one did not even have the know-how and at the end had to resort to local, local consultants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] It was quite clear what it was all about – and it was 10 million away at the time. So little money is not at all: at least €10 million already at the time. So there's something running together! But the main damage did not occur until much later. In the meantime, you should also have understood what it consists of: The main damage is that the “badter provider” has obviously received the award – and that in a chain of stakeholders, where Hochegger and Meischberger appear at the place: Meischberger is not just a Traugen, but, like Plach, a business partner. – Whom it doesn’t fail, it’s not to help! And you will have to answer the matter! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you've been watching it then, then you're now – how do you say in your ranks? – Man enough, explain yourself to this and draw a finish line! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] That's what it's all about! Obviously, this is too much to be demanded, because of the calls for action, we must accept it, but we will hear how Mr Vice-Chancellor and Party-Obmann sees and answers the matter. [[Abg. Head: The Minister of Finance!]] However, Meischberger and Hochegger have not only collected commissions – that might be still in the area of usual operation – but obviously they have also influenced the procedure. I do not quote from tomorrow’s “news”, but from today’s APA: “The information has also come from Meischberger that the government wants a billion euros for the Bouwog. After the first round of offers, where Immofinanz became only second, Hochegger von Meischberger had experienced” – Hochegger von Meischberger! –, “how high the best bidder was. Hochegger had forwarded this information orally to the then Immofinanz-Boss Karl Petrikovics.” – Quote. This is a quote from the APA, and as they come to quote from the consultation documents, I do not know – if you are planning an intermediate call – but at least it seems to be so credible that the Austrian press agency has quoted it, and I am holding this to you. We will have a few more opportunities to go through these things, even more detailed if it has to be, when we make applications for a committee of inquiry again, because it cannot stay that way, because, if we already have Biblical appeals, that can't be unheard of. Now you can say: The Procuratorate is responsible for this. – When it comes to personal criminal responsibility, yes, but when it comes to how it will be possible, more is required to assume its responsibility, and you are required to allow at least the information about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And I already notice at the drop of the noise level that you may have already been willing to see. [[Abg. Rädler: That's your speech!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] This is also a good thing, because at the end of the day we will be at the goal of drawing a final line. We're not going into all the scandals at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] We only need a few more, because otherwise we would really have a permanent investigation committee on Karl-Heinz Grasser. This saddens the joy of life so much that it is not good for the political representatives of the people, because it should bring together something else. But a few essential strands belong to persecuted. If we are already at Meischberger and Hochegger: Let us remember the so-called SME Road Show! – So far, so funny: [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes!]] SMEs roadshow. Do you know what it cost, nine appearances of the Minister of Finance? – 2,4 million € from the tax bag! Representatives of the economy have been invited, and the Federal Minister for Finance has had a transparent, glass speaker's hand there, and he has also had a microphone, and then he has, if he has been granted, straightened out his ideology. That is acceptable in democracy! But what is not permitted is that it was financed with €2.4 million tax money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] And why Mr Hochegger has cut back a few €100 000, namely €400 000, will also be too clear. – From the public register: Friend Hochegger is served by friend Grasser from the tax pay register. That's the regular procedure. There are many more of these links, and if you do not honestly answer these questions today, we will prove this to you in the future, and the more then the urgency of this committee of inquiry, which you will be able to make a request again, will be justified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] How do the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises actually come to be invited, in the belief that this may pay the ÖVP how that would belong? – But no, they pay for it indirectly. With €2.4 million you could have provided 100 SMEs with 24 000 € starting aid. This would have been a beautiful inspiration for founders and would have been a lot failed if they were to carry around there on the nose. If you still had a proponent, you would be paying back the €2.4 million as an ÖVP – because it was already on your ticket at the time. [[Abg. Hornek: To the Greens?]] That would be the most natural thing in the world, of course! That was classic abuse! Karl-Heinz Grasser has done much more abuse. You can't talk about this, and that won't help you either. The worst thing is that Grasser has also committed abuse where it has been about the very closest, his own. It can be given money by industry: Everyone should have paid tax in the process, only KHG, that was the interpretation of the ministry at the time. And that is why, Minister of Finance, you are required because it is also about restoring the reputation. Another thing: This matter, as it was then legally bent and pushed, will also come to light, it will take only a few months. So think about how you're doing your answer here – I'm really serious! After all, you can take this for yourself from the Dringliche, an ex-member of the Administrative Court, Dr. Karl Fellner, has given quite clearly information – he is an expert in the field –: "At some level, whether the IV or the supported association, whether it be the Minister himself, would have had to be paid tax in any case. Everything else is escapes.” – Detto Mr. Doralt. What happened? – Mr Finz, the State Secretary, has carried out the proceedings far away from the ÖVP as always. It helped Mr. Section Head Quantschnigg, it has been constantly influenced by the procedures, and the auditor of this strange association, who passed on the money, was – perhaps has already been forgotten – section head Nolz. This is the same troupe that has always been sitting together comfortably – and they explain to each other that they do not pay taxes where everyone else would have been due in this process! Stop it! You have to make sure that this is explained again, because otherwise this flaw remains. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I say to you: These efforts are indeed about the information we feel committed to the reputation of the Republic and its institutions. That's it! Why don't you go out and listen to what people say if they just hear the name Karl-Heinz Grasser? Yeah, yeah, we already know that this was different at the beginning, but we always pointed out what it was all about. Now you don't want him anymore, but it's been a long time. The point is that we – and you too! – have to contribute to the fact that at least the impression does not arise, it is all grudging anyway, it can do everything anyway, and in Parliament you are still preventing the Enlightenment. No, you have been elected – not only to do so but also – and therefore: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Don't be afraid, it's never too late to reverse – or as always. [[Rejoicing]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: The next Bible quote!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You have to be Bible-proof when you quote!]] Mr. Finanzminister...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14033	Your speaking time is over. I can't admit anything to you now. You're already over it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (to leave the speaker's desk) In Raiffeisen you say: It's your choice!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance and Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll reported. Mr Vice-Chancellor, 20 minutes will not exceed your speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14076	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear listeners in this debate and the urgent question to me today! – Mr Kogler, yes, I am always there when it comes to urgent questions or other questions of Parliament and I am not abroad and I am available. That is why it is also a matter of course for me that I am here today to answer the questions asked me accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This does not, however, undermine the possibility of State Secretary representing me when it is not possible. That is why I am pleased that we are both sitting here, and I would like to give you very detailed answers to your questions as far as possible in my area. Question 1: As you know, ladies and gentlemen, I have been active in a different function during the time of the question, partly not in political responsibility at all. I was in no way involved in the tender procedure at any time or informed about the details. It is therefore absolutely missing from my knowledge whether there were influences or whether information was passed on. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: You're not a finance minister either, are you? You're vice chancellors today!]] – No reason for nervousness, Mrs Moser! On question 2: I assume that the issue of the posting of Commercial Councillor Plech to the Supervisory Boards of BUWOG and BIG has also been examined in accordance with the rules applicable at the time of ordering. Question 3: As I am told by the experts of the Federal Ministry of Finance, the privatisation process has been dealt with in accordance with the laws and procedural requirements, transparent and objectively. According to my information, only the best bidder could get the award. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Question 4: In an ex-post view, the Court of Auditors compared the merely informative purchase price approaches within the framework of the overall offer for the individual housing companies and concluded that it would have been more advantageous to sell each company individually to the respective best bidder. – In an ex-post view! Question 5: The assessment commission for the award during that period was made up of the same members throughout the period. It was this Dipl. Ing. Rainer Wieltsch, Member of the Board of Directors of ÖIAG, Dr. Peter Michaelis, Spokesperson of the Board of Directors of ÖIAG, Head of Section Dr. Gerhard Steger, Federal Ministry of Finance, Dr. Rudolf Lessiak, Contracting Law Expert, Univ.-Prof. Dr. Josef Aicher, Expert for Commercial and Contracting Law, Dr. Josef Mantler, Federal Ministry of Finance, Ministerial Council Heinrich Traumüller, Federal Ministry of Finance, Dipl. Soz. Dkfm. Michael Swoboda, Federal Ministry of Finance. On question 6: There were no changes in terms of terms, time limits and selling arrangements in the course of the award procedure. Only because of the high interest rates in Hö-he amounting to approximately €60 million for the interest rate change risk known to the federal government as part of the first bidder round, the federal government has reduced the tender period in the second bidder round to minimise this purchase price discount. On question 7a: As my experts also report, the proposal for a second round of offers was therefore necessary because an additional offer was presented in the first round of offers, which was subject to conditions and therefore could not be assessed adequately. In question 7b: I refer here to the comments on Question 6. Questions 8 to 12: Here again, I can only refer to Question No 1. I was active in other functions at the time, as mentioned above, and therefore cannot provide any relevant information. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have the knowledge in the ministry, you are not a private minister!]] . You have asked me the questions, Mr Kogler, and I will answer them here. On the question 13: The supplement 14.1.2b was prepared by Freshfields Bruckhaus and Deringer, appointed by the Federal Ministry of Finance for this purpose, was an integral part of the purchase contract and was a score on the future design of the designation rights. In this score, it was noted that the federal government waived the right to be ordered, both in the sale of entire properties and in the sale of individual housing properties. On Question 14: The purchase contract was formulated by Freshfields Bruckhaus and Deringer law firm. Question 15: As already stated on Question No 1, I was active in another function during this period. I therefore cannot make any statement on this either. On the question 16: The question of the continuation of the right of designation was addressed by the bidders in the course of the sale process. As a result, this issue was covered by the already mentioned itemation under the contract of sale prior to presentation. It is therefore unacceptable that the detailed rules on the right of designation, which were concluded in February 2005, would have resulted in a resuscitation, especially in the cited wording, which was already known to all bidders in the context of the contract of assignment, the abandonment of right of refusal in the case of sale was already expressly defined. On the question 17: This is not a legal question, but an economic consideration in order not to impose restrictions on the sale of apartments which would have led to a purchase price reduction. The financial procuratorship was merely confronted with the Court's premise in retrospect and it was made available to it for the review of the matter all the documents relating to the right of designation. The Financial Procuratorship clearly disagreed with the Court of Auditors' statements. On the question 18: I refer to the reply 3365/AB of 21. On March 5, 2009, where Question 5 clearly states the facts on this question. Questions 19, 20, 23 and 24: A transparency of that during the term of office of Federal Minister Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser's payments by the Federal Ministry of Finance have shown that the following fees were paid for contracts from the Federal Ministry of Finance: Peter Hochegger and companies in which a stake (Company Matrix) is known: Payment made. First: Subject: PR advice on information to the public on financial and economic policies as well as measures to reorganise the budget, open letter from the Federal Government to the zero deficit including listing costs, concept of euro changeover including VAT: payment made 653 697 €; Information and communication campaign for small and medium-sized enterprises: € 2 359 895; Logo and design for financial and customs offices, Euro advisor on the homepage of the Federal Ministry of Finance (Company Matrix), including VAT: € 25 956; Design development Financial online and Infotour tax reform 2005 including VAT 63 414 €. No payments from the Federal Ministry of Finance are known to Walter Meischberger and companies in which participation is known. For the sake of completeness, I would point out that only those orders in this list could be taken into account, in which a participation of those persons is of course known. On questions 21, 22 and 25: Orders from other departments do not fall within the scope of the Federal Ministry of Finance. There are therefore no records available to me. Issues of award of contracts from disbursed legal entities fall within the operational competence of the corporate bodies of these companies. These questions do not therefore concern the execution by the Federal Ministry of Finance within the meaning of the nature. 52 para. 2 B-VG. That is why I do not have any records on this either. On the question 26: As with any other taxable person, the tax interests were treated by the competent financial authority in accordance with the law, while respecting the obligation to pay the tax. On questions 27 and 29: In your written parliamentary question, Mr Kogler, dated 15. December 2005, 2434/J, has already been discussed in detail the issue of the obligation to pay tax. At the time, there were also conflicting opinions from legal experts on Dr. Fellner, who confirmed the view of the financial management. You know that very well. Finally, all the questions were also dealt with in the Court of Auditors. On the question 28: The assessment of whether there is a tax evasion shall be the sole responsibility of the financial office responsible for the taxable person. The assessment shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the substantive tax law, the Federal Tax Code on the procedure and the Financial Penalty Law. Question 30: The setting up of committees of inquiry is a right of Members of this House. You are responsible for the decision, not the Federal Government. From my point of view, the prosecutor and the justice are now on the train. The allegations shall be unexplained by the prosecutor and independent justice. The Federal Ministry of Finance will support the work of the Procuratorate as best possible and intensively as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14220	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 20 minutes. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Moser. I'll set the clock to exactly these 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14248	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! You've heard it yourself now: The Minister for Finance knows nothing about the Ministry of Finance. [[Call the ÖVP:Have you slept or what?]] Mr. Minister for Finance is perhaps Vice-President, is also Chairman of the ÖVP, but he cannot give any information about important operations related to privatisations that have run through his place of business because he was not Minister of Finance at the time. Mr Finanzminister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, apologise: What are they? You really are now? Now, if you have an office, now you have a ministry, do you have a point of order, do you have people who have been involved at the time? Is Dr. Mantler still with you in the ministry? Are there any other officials who were very likely to work at the time? You can ask them so that you can give us a speech and answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, Minister of Finance, I should really be very grateful to you, because by your failure to answer important passages, you prove to you how necessary a parliamentary investigation committee is. You reject the answer – well, then we have to ask the questions again, then we have to address the questions to several people, not just you, because you were not there at the time, I admit, you were not directly involved, you were only in the cabinet as an environmental minister, you were only in the government as a simple member of another ministry. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No, there I was Farm Federal Director!]] But we want to clarify and we need clarification because this thing is escalating with the sale of the federal housing companies with fees to the closest circle of friends, with success fees to the closest circle of friends of the former Minister of Finance, this thing is escalating to the great political-private scandal in the Second Republic during the era Black-Blue. Not for nothing titles the illustrations according to this, not for nothing the newspapers write about it! But you, Mr. Finanzminister, get more information and say: No, it wasn't me! – Yes, it was not you, but you should give us information. And that is why we are now again seeing the need to call for an investigation committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I certainly share your opinion that everything has to be put on the table now. The prosecutor's office is required, the courts are required. Your ministry will also work towards these institutions of the Republic, which today is, as it were, an official promise of your own. Only: It's not going to be enough alone! Mr Kogler has already explained... – No, I don't know better. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You know everything better!]] I know only in this case a little more than you do, because I was professionally involved in this matter for eight years, and so I'm doing a little easier than you. As Mr Kogler has already pointed out, it is not just about criminal matters, it is not just about those matters that are subject to judgment. Mr Minister, we have given you very, very clearly just the hand to clarify a political scandal. It is not so “without” that a finance minister is so to speak, as if he were above the law, more or less passing over political morality and political correctness, which is normally in Central Europe. But Mr Grasser did not see any problem at all at that time, and this is also my second accusation to you – as you do not see today at all in the fact that a successful real estate manager was also active in this context. He can be quiet, but there is nothing to be done about it, that he is successful, Mr. Karl Ernst Plech, only: The inconsistency was not clear to Mr Grasser at the time, nor does it seem to be the case with you. They say the sheet was the sheet, and the sheet was very well carried over, and so it was, and so it was, and so it is, and so it is good. Please, this is not our opinion, nor is it a central European standard. How can anyone who successfully buys and sells real estate in business life be entrusted with sales areas to be handled within the meaning of the Republic? He's not divided, he's not schizophrenic, Mr. Plech. He is not on one side of the private real estate manager, and on the other hand, he is the representative of the Republic in the Supervisory Boards and sees that the general government that taxpayers have the maximum income that the budgets have. You can't imagine such a thing! It's just too automatic, so to speak, that the private heart beats a little louder and faster and more intense. You don't find anything, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. This has already been quite defying for me, and it has been quite desavowing that you simply don't share this basic political moral that people who are at work in private business cannot act in favor of the Republic at the same time. I mean, the witness statements that are being made at the moment, be they of Michael Ramprecht or of Hochegger, have a very, very clear trail, and this leads to the core of the ministry, leads to the courtyard of Grasser, leads directly into his cabinet. And that is why it is so essential for us that you, as the Minister for Finance, who also has a cabinet, make it clear to Parliament, to the Members, about the detailed procedures at that time. And we need this clarity here, not somewhere with the prosecutor, where we might be able to browse files somewhere. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Haven't you listened?- Oh, my God!]] – I listened very well and even contributed as far as I could in the speed. Only: They are refusing to give us some details that would very well help us in the assessment of the matter. I have already said that you yourself are doing a bear service – or the ÖVP – because it is obvious how urgently we need the Committee of Inquiry, even in view of the differences in the presentation between your department, the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors. There is still the question of the right of designation. You yourself have quoted a question by Mr Molterer, the former Minister, who says, as well. She says that the right of designation has actually been abandoned, but in general it did exist, but it was not linked to special dwellings, because it should be sold anyway. The right of designation should not be a restriction on sales, but it has not been waived either. It was neither fish nor meat. This is, as it were, a culprit, which ultimately only serves to ensure that the investor or the investor's consortium has the maximum yield, while on the other hand – unfortunately, the Court of Auditors must also note – the Republic has achieved too little revenue. It is already a difference whether I can sell an apartment free of charge, if it becomes free, or if I have only the rental income again from the WGG's point of view, because then an official will re-enter. At least Mr Molterer's cabinet has answered very ambiguously, and this should be clarified on its own: the differences of opinion between the Court of Auditors and your place of business. This also needs to be updated, because it is not about cardboard stalks; it is about 200 million. You are now the savior of the nation. Mr Molterer was the nation's saver in recent times. I don't understand why this sparcoalition is so generous when it comes to doing business to private investors – I don't understand! – in addition to where there is a relatively broad field of benefit. On the one hand, there is the benefit of real estate finance, and on the other hand there is the benefit of this Upper Austria consortium: the WAG, a thriving housing company, which also had relatively much equity, which has produced relatively good results. Today, Scharinger is ruling, where the Upper Austrian insurance system now rules, where today the Oberösterreichische Landes-Hypothekenanstalt governs. That's the black part of the business. This has been decided, please, so it has been executed more or less, but for us is the jumping point: Why can you, as Minister of Finance, hold the bar so much today in Parliament as the former Minister of Finance Grasser, that you refuse to provide us with detailed information and therefore always provide us with the need for an investigation committee to serve us directly on the silver tablet? Mr Pröll, it is a pity that you also put an end to Mr Kogler's outstretched hand towards the ÖVP Group to end with the era Schüssel-grasser, a system that has often – I say in particular – decided not to take advantage of private individuals. [[Abg. Head: What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Gahr: What are you talking about? 53 parliamentary questions! Read it!]] You didn't allow this to end today. You have – on the contrary! – reopening the discussion. It is necessary to create clarity, clarification and transparency, not only from the courts, but also in the political field. It's about political morality. [[Abg. Head: When did you write the speech?]] Mr. Kopf! I can assure you, I have not written a single word. I have only mentioned the answers of the Minister. That's it! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Head.]] I hope it hasn't been the last time we've been dealing with this subject. [[Abg. Head: Last chance!]] Mr Pröll! You have a chance, you can take the time to study, to find out what really was, because the investigative committee needs and will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14433	Mr Herzegovina has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14455	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Again: Why did we for the time being refrain from a committee of inquiry? – That was a well thought out and right decision! [[Abg. Grosz: Nobody knows!]] Why? The former FPÖ and ÖVP Minister Grasser is now accused. [[Abg. Grosz: A crasher!]] That was predictable last week. Every single question in an investigation committee on Grasser would, of course, wipe it off the table with a reference to a ongoing procedure, he would probably still congratulate us on any statements of transparency and professionalism. Look, that's how it was, he'd say. - It can't be. The fact that this Committee of Inquiry will come is quite clear to me, but at the moment it is simply pointless and counterproductive. With a little political fairness from the Greens, you have to understand this and admit it. I also believe that we should agree that applications are provisionally meaningless. Mrs Moser, what are you doing in a committee of inquiry, where the most important persons like Grasser, as Meischberger says to you – rightly say – are: That's a ongoing procedure, I'm not giving any information!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Brosz: What about the people from the ministry?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We can start loading!]] In reality, it is about the abuse of office, the betrayal of secrets, illegal agreements and, at all, the essence of the Grasser system. You can imagine the whole range: the homepage of the Industrial Association, the Road Show with Hochegger, the Hypo-Alpe Adria. Those who watched the “Report” broadcast yesterday could observe: It's hard to grasp. This goes all the way to Meinl European Land, concealment of state resources, ÖIAG. Mrs Moser, I am convinced that when the criminal and financial penalties relating to the BUWOG have been completed, then there is, of course, political responsibility here. It is about hygiene in the Republic of Austria and, above all, about prevention, because this system is completely extinct. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The BUWOG deal has spread bad smell from the beginning. From the beginning it was the question: Why does the federal government squander particularly valuable assets, namely dwellings? Why in Bausch and Arch? Why not buy better proceeds from partial purchases? Why does a double-digit million sum march into the USA to a company that has an expertise – you have to imagine that! – to make for the Austrian housing market?- Oh, my God! We asked precisely these questions in 2003 in the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, ‘small investigation committee’. We were, of course, precisely where it is now. The SPÖ asked: Which consulting companies, which individuals have been assigned to what costs, which orders? – This, however, has unfortunately been scrapped off by FPÖ and ÖVP at the time. [[Abg. Brosz: That's why we need an investigation committee now!]] By the way, Klubobmann was Wilhelm Molterer. This is not a special recommendation either, honestly. We could have suffocated the painting in the germ at the time if we had all been asked to answer these questions, for example: [[Abg. Head: Be careful!]] What is the cost of 10.3 million for Lehman Brothers? Or: Why – it was formulated – is not sold in tranches, but in the whole? Mr Pröll, this is always important: Why have the officials of the Ministry not been employed by contract staff with legal and operational training? Why didn't you use the know-how of in-house experts? [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] I don't think you have to resort to foreign areas in all things. Mr Vice-Chancellor, which I did not like in your reply, was that you said the €200 million, this damage that was caused, was not so great because in retrospect the allocation rights to the apartments were abandoned. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You just said that the financial procuratorship clearly contradicted what the Court of Auditors said. That is not enough, I believe. This is not argued in the matter. In addition, you have argued quite differently than your predecessor. You have presented it with contract details why €200 million has been abandoned. Mr. Wilhelm Molterer as your predecessor and successor to Grasser presented this in a very different way in a parliamentary reply to the question. [[Abg. Head: He answered questions with facts!]] He said that because of the rich offer on the housing market, we do not need to have these allocation rights retroactively. So in the case of such an argument, you already lack the words when it comes to €200 million tax money! By way of payment of tax money: The whole number with regard to Mr. Plech, which the FPÖ grand Böhmdorfer called acceptable when the commercial court was then transferred to the City Tower, this 607 476 €, is questionable. This is really a question; in the future, the FPÖ will not have to have any discussions about morality and propriety. In total, it is to be said: The system bowl-grasser belongs really clear, in all details. Mr. Schüssel is just – I read in a newspaper – looking for enlightenment, I think, somewhere in Tibet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I think it's very important that he renounces the teaching of error. He published a book and presented there the blessings of black and blue. In conclusion: We need to shine through, enlightenment is important. I believe that from the government there is much more respect also for the taxpayer, before the tax-paying population. [[Abg. Head: The SPÖ: “Respect for the taxpayer”!]] We here in Parliament have the task of taking measures to ensure that such a system is never possible again! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14624	Mr Dr. Stummfully has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14655	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I was already in this house when my party was still in opposition. At that time, urgent questions were parliamentary highlights. There was tingling tension. There it was mouse silence. There was full presence in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, what has become of it? . I really regret that the Green Group has so devalued this sharp control instrument of opposition to the government by constantly asking the same questions, constantly making the same accusations. Six days ago we discussed the same thing here with the same accusations. They are devalued by Parliament and you are devalued by politics. I'm sorry! I regret this as a member of a government group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Kogler, I am speaking You are particularly concerned because you know – I have said this several times from here: I appreciate you as a highly constructive interlocutor in the Financial Committee. But don't let your group abuse it here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] What is happening here is that we agree: complete Enlightenment! That's our opinion. Mr Kogler, where we differ, however, is: We have confidence in the rule of law, we say: Procurator, judge, courts should work first!, but you want the oillingers, the mushrooms or the Koglers themselves to play judges. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Parent]] We don't want that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unbelievably intelligible, but no prejudgment, no media justice, and no deputies as judges. We don't want that! Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Committee of Inquiry is concerned, six days ago we discussed the same thing here; unfortunately, I also have to repeat: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Political responsibility is with you...!]] There is a great difference between the court and an investigation committee. The judgment serves to find the truth. Investigation in the U Committee is almost always a political tribunal. Mr Kogler, we have spent 41 days together in the Banking Investigation Committee, and I can only say: 41 lost days! [[Abg. May. Kogler: FMA reform!]] In the same period, I only had one and a half days for the Financial Committee, and that as the chairman of the Financial Committee! But: In my opinion, politics is primarily a form of the future – and not a constant approach to the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, once again: Inadequate information, but where it belongs, namely to justice, to the judge, to the prosecutor – and then we can still ask the question of political responsibility. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The truth will free them!]] But this too is perfectly clear to me: If something was wrong in the field of the Ministry of Finance, who has political responsibility? – The Minister of Finance; that is no question at all! I don't need to investigate for a long time, but that's all completely clear. [[Abg. May. Kogler: How do you want to find out?]] Mr Kogler, if you put the same thing here every few days on the urgent issue, then it has nothing to do with urgency at all, but obviously only serves your political self-satisfaction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, I must say this as one who highly appreciates Parliament, who has been here for many years and who regrets the downfall in this in itself sharp control instrument of the opposition towards the government. I really regret that. Mr Kogler said that more private and less state had been charged to the taxpayer. [[Abg. May. Kogler: In the system Grasser!]] Mr Kogler, you know the facts and facts. Who would have repaid the €6.3 billion debt of the ÖIAG if not privatisation proceeds? The taxpayer should have paid this back! – They wanted to burden the taxpayer on the greens, but it was a lucky case for the taxpayer that these privatisation proceeds of the Grasser era came in. This did not ask the taxpayer to pay the cash, but it was privatisation proceeds with which the debts could be repaid. And today the ÖIAG is debt-free – that is, a success story, Mr. Cot! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say quite frankly to you, Mr Kogler, that if you wish to continue to be called a constructive interlocutor: You can't say at the Grasser's homepage it was a private sponsor, and that's bad – and at the SME lectures it was the taxpayer, and that's bad too! [[Abg. Oils: Cheaper!]] - Yes, what is a minister to do? He can only do it at the expense of the resort, then it concerns the taxpayer – or he just has a private sponsor. Should the taxpayers' homepage have financed? Would you have asked the taxpayer to cash? We of the ÖVP are the lawyer of the taxpayer, therefore: I'd rather be a private sponsor than constantly ask the taxpayer to check in. Please take note, Mr Kogler. I very much hope that, despite this divergent, we will agree: complete information, but not a political tribunal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14828	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Königshofer. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14850	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to go to medias res and immediately address the pudel's core. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who's the puddle?]] - Whoever is the pudel, this will soon turn out, Minister. I would now like to ask the Greens of 22 February. Citing January 2008, in which it reads: "The Committee of the Regions' deliberations made it clear that the Republic of Austria had not yet been able to waive the right of designation. The finding... that this has already been done with the sale agreement of June 2004, is contrary to the fact that the Republic of Austria has for months, on the basis of the contractually anchored supplement 14.1.2a, very likely persisted in the right of designation for 30 years and for inconceivable reasons ceased to do so in February 2005.’ – quotations. In the meantime, however, these inventable reasons are very slow to find out why the Republic of Austria did not do so at the time. Let us take note of the effects of this renunciation! So far, it has been said that this remission was worth €200 million. – But if you look at the balance sheets of real-estate finance – I have already read and understood this in press agencies – you can see that real-estate finance has taken the BUWOG apartments with € 288 million into the 2004 balance sheet. According to the task of the right of designation in 2005, these BUWOG apartments were suddenly rated with approximately €1.9 billion in the real estate balance sheet, i.e. an increase of €1.3 billion in value. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a scale that is almost unimaginable, and I also say to you: Certain Vienna real estate agents, who can count, have calculated this and say: For that, 5 percent! If you account for 5 percent of this, then you will find another €40 to €50 million for the €10 million commissions that have already become known because of self-admissions. There will be to investigate where this money has flown. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us also highlight the main players in this deal: On the sales side this was certainly the then Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser; at the intermediary side, according to previous information, and because he was so important and so much cashed for it, Ing. Walter Meischberger from Kematen near Innsbruck... [[Abg. Wheelers: All of the FPÖ!]] . I'll tell you that right now, my colleague. [[Abg. May. Stefan: 1999 excluded!]] That's why I'm telling you – and now you listen to me! On the other hand, this was Mr. Petrikovics from Immofinanz and Constantia Privatbank. And now let's go to Mr. Karl-Heinz Grasser. I can remember that after Knittelfeld there were three rulers on television: Mr. Karl-Heinz Grasser, a certain Susanne Riess-Passer and a certain Mr. Ing. Peter Westenthaler, who said: “We take the hat and say adieu!” Yes, they have gone, but Mr. Karl-Heinz Grasser showed up after that, in a listing place of the ÖVP and has been selected on the ÖVP list in the National Council. [[Call at the FPÖ: They knew why!]] [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Wrong!]] - That's wrong? You can correct this afterwards. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: That's wrong! Grasser was never on a list of the ÖVP!]] – Mr State Secretary says Grasser was never on a list of the ÖVP; good. But then let's keep looking! [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] There was a government formation, and there Mr Grasser was praised as Minister of Finance for the ÖVP. [[Abg. Grosz: He's a black man, but never on a list!]] That's a record; that's what you can look at. Grasser was no longer a liberal finance minister, but an ÖVP finance minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Child weighting!]] Let's look at Mr. Ing. Walter Meischberger! Mr. Walter Meischberger was FPÖ District Party Partyman of Innsbruck-Land, one of the largest districts in Tyrol, and I was able to prevent Meischberger from continuing to be District Party Minister in 1997. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Meischberger no longer had a function with us; you know that too. [[Abg. Grosz: Is this the one who was at the age of forty? Bussi! Is that it?]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP, since Abg. Grosz shakes his lips to a kiss.]] Mr Grosz, be glad to see you on your 40. Birthdays are embraced, because then you can appreciate yourself happy. However, you are welcome to comment on this. – I say to you: Mr. Walter Meischberger was excluded from the Freedom Party in the spring of 1999. Meischberger has not been a member of the Freedom Party for more than ten years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: No member – but he goes to a birthday party!? The Chief Advisor of Mr. Strache!]] Now let's look at how the Vienna Procuratorate continues to work in this case, whether she works as quickly as Mrs. Dr. Susanne Winterin Graz, where investigations were made immediately, where convictions were made, from the national court and from the Oberlandesgericht. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Gahr and Mr Rädler.]] - I don't think so. I am now allowed to quote from today's issue of "ÖsterREICH" how cozy the public prosecutor's office in Vienna deals with the matter. That's where their spokesman Gerhard Jarosch – speaking in terms of the Vienna Procuratorate – says: “Of course, we are examining this and setting up a criminal act. However, we have not yet begun direct investigations against Grasser.” I wonder why this happened so fast with Dr. Winter. Jarosh continues: “And here we have to wait for what results from the revenues of the Meischberger investigations.” Do you know what Mr. Andreas Unterberger wrote about this in the “Wiener Zeitung” – I quote: “The prosecutors in the Vienna area have become a danger to the rule of law...” If the prosecutors in the field of Vienna wish to disprove this statement, they must act in the direction of these rulings, quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15075	Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15096	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! What do we need to take note of the contributions from the debates? – Karl-Heinz Grasser was not a freeman, was not at the ÖVP. [[Abg. Wheeler: BZÖ!]] Meischberger was never at the FPÖ, has no party to deal with either. [[Calls: He has been excluded]] The vice chancellor comes to the child like the virgin, knows nothing, hears nothing. A little bit seems to me like the three monkeys who don't see anything, don't hear anything, and don't want to say anything either. Nevertheless, everyone is standing out here and saying... [[Abg. Wheeler: You should do that once...!]] We will also make our contribution where we can contribute to the education process. [[Abg. Wheeler: Don't go there!]] I'll tell you one thing: In particular, the role of SPÖ is to be questioned! – Mr. Herbs, you don’t understand anyone at all right now. Three weeks ago, in “News” you request an investigation committee. Unbelievably reconnaissance, says the SPÖ! We call for an investigation committee. A week passes, you will be drawn by the ÖVP once again at the Nosenring. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] They go out here to the speaker's desk and explain why the SPÖ does not need an investigation committee against Mr Grasser. Perhaps you have a bit of a phone call with the SPÖ-Villach, with Mr Manzenreiter, have talked about ESG apartments and similar things; as you can hear, in this case, also in the case of purchase processing was tax-saving. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Today You're all serious. For the time being, we do not want to set up a committee of inquiry. And in the same sentence, you say: But it's perfectly clear to us that he's coming. – So no one understands the SPÖ's attitude anymore. [[Abg. Booker: You've never understood that!]] What do you want now? Do you want an investigation committee? Yeah? – Then you agree to the application of the opposition! Or don't you want one? Do you want to cover? Are you hostageed by the ÖVP because it's written in any coalition agreement that you can't match each other? – Then say that here too! But maybe it's a little more. Maybe the BUWOG is just the tip of an iceberg. The Causa Grasser, the Causa BUWOG, is, on the one hand, a criminal case – as it is today also mentioned in the headlines – in which, of course, it is a financial criminal proceedings that are relevant to criminal law. Here – and here I am with you, Mr Vice-Chancellor – justice is on the train to clarify these questions, which has to be clarified as quickly as possible. What we have to blame the judicial system is that we are once again being measured by two measures. Every small chicken thief is immediately persecuted by the justice system. We have now had an example, which shows how, immediately after the facts have been made known, a contract is awarded directly from the Committee of Inquiry for investigations and is being carried out against persons. What has been done in this causa in recent weeks? In any other European State – with the exception of Italy perhaps – persons who have been shown such financial offences, if there are self-admissions and relevant advertisements, are arrested immediately. How are we? – There is a house search announced, 14 days before the house search took place with Mr. Meischberger, who by the way explained on TV: We expected this house search to take place. [[Abg. Bucher: Has it been announced?]] – What will you have found there, ladies and gentlemen? For other persons, the Ministry of Justice is first politely asked if it is possible to take action against them. So this is clearly measured by two measures. For us, it is relevant to clarify the question of whether the approach in the Causa BUWOG is an individual case or whether the system has had it. One should consider how many privatizations, how many subsidies – Mr. Finanzminister, here you could contribute to the investigation – have been handled by Minister of Finance Grasser, by rope companies, and where actually the profiters of this system are sitting. If this has been the case with the BUWOG, I ask the question of what happened at Telekom or in other funding cases. [[Abg. Prehauser: Eurofighter!]] I am bringing only a small thing that I have noticed in recent years, in which a few things are known to me, in connection with the AWS – the State Funding Bank, Austria Economic Service – in the direct influence of the Minister of Finance. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Minister of Economics, right?]] – Minister of Economic Affairs. Why have renowned supervisory councils resigned there, from renowned companies? Mr. Harald Kogler, for example, from the Funder Industry, who has said what is more passionate, smell to heaven? I can tell you why. There, for good reason, honourable people who have been used by the government to deal with funding cases have resigned because they have no longer prevented the political influence of the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs. There were profiteers at work, who appeared again in this causa. That's why I say: We are in favour of a complete clarification of these facts. Mr Finanzminister, you cannot simply say: I was in another position, I didn't know anything about all of this, because you are obliged to ask your officials to stand by the prosecutor's office and the judicial system constructively. You can answer all the questions here in the House, but I can promise you that the opposition parties – no matter what couleur – will not be loosened because it is about confidence in the institutions of the state, in this government, in the control mechanisms of this Parliament, about a complete Enlightenment and that a system, as it certainly took place under the responsibility of Karl-Heinz Grasser in Austria, will be prevented in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15236	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15258	Ladies and gentlemen! In this House, a minister has never said so little and has provided so many information. You have today provided the best proof that we need an investigation committee because you cannot answer the simplest questions that arise in your ministry. [[Abg. Head: Strong argument!]] The whole banal question of whether insider knowledge has gone to friends and lobbyists Grassers – to Hochegger and Meischberger – answers that you have not yet been ministers, you do not know. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Excuse me, but was it me or wasn't I?]] A very clear case – you were not – we need a committee of inquiry so that we can take a closer look at this matter with the officials of your ministry. The next question: Were the BUWOG apartments sold too cheap? – They provide us with the banal statement that this is an ex-post view. We're interested in something else. We are interested in who has the political responsibility to take over. This is a typical task for a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we know is enough for us. ==References== It is remarkable to read by Mr Hochegger in the “EconomiesBlatt”. He said: “Mr. Petrikovics, whom I have known since 1993, has asked me to give him one” – one! – to obtain information on the Bouwog sale. I have these” – these! – ‘Information acquired. After I received the award as the highest bidder and I thought that my” – mine! – “I’ve helped with information about this, I’ve knocked on the real estate finance to get a success premium.” Now I ask you: What information is worth €10 million in this country? – This is the big question a committee of inquiry has to ask. [[Abg. Head: That's the big question!]] This stinks, ladies and gentlemen, and we will not look away, and Parliament cannot look away from it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] What Mr Hochegger describes as “the creation of information” would be called the business of friends here – I am saying corruption, that is clear, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now the EIA is getting into play, and there are some laws on how the EIA stands on committee of inquiry. Legality number 1: The ÖVP is always for an investigative committee when politicians from other parties are at the centre. There are enough historical examples: “Lucona”, “Noricum” and the latest “Spitzel” investigation committee. You have not dreamed in advance that we will also invite your ministers because traces lead there. However, if your politicians are at the centre, it means refusal of investigation. – This is legislativeity number 1. I regret the lawfulness number two, namely: The SPÖ is always opposed to an investigation committee, although the EIA is opposed. This is a new lawfulness, which has so far been different, because over the last few years the SPÖ has repeatedly helped to invigorate Parliament and to enable committees of inquiry. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, on your homepage you can read statements like: Herbs demand a complete and merciless information of the system Grasser-Schüssel. It has caused enormous financial, moral and social damage. Policy must ensure that a repetition of such machinations is impossible in the future. - You're right! I'm just asking you: How, if not with an investigation committee, and when? In five years, when any criminal proceedings are completed, it is certainly too late. This means we get to law number 3 at the ÖVP: The ÖVP always says if it does not want an investigation committee: Justice is now in charge; justice is on the train! Let us look at the ambiguity of the ÖVP statements! I remember July 2009, e-mails oillinger. I can still remember that Klubobmann's head has run up and down here, almost inclined to say, jealous, and has tried to negotiate an investigation committee with the other parties in particular. - That's it! At the same time, however, a cabinet member has already been given an investigation in the office of the Ministry of the Interior of the ÖVP so that police and justice can find out about oillingers. So there's no sign of justice on the train! When it comes to the political opponent, the full battery is picked up: Investigation Committee, Procuratorate, Police. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no problem with this, Mr Oellinger sees this as positive, because this is the only opportunity for him to oppose the slanders of ÖVP and FPÖ, but the fact is that: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] They measure with two measurements! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the political opponent is at the centre of your attention, all the means are right. If it's about your people, about your bodies in the basement, then you'll be covered and an investigation will be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15377	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15398	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we Socialists and Socialists are in favour of a parliamentary work on this subject, but when we decide when the time is right, that leaves you to be our case! We believe that, as the judicial system is now working, political reprocessing may take place at a later stage or at a later stage. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, which Minister of Finance would prefer to fly to Hawaii instead of to the Ecofin? Which Minister of Finance was able to finance his homepage tax-free? Which Minister of Finance could be dressed by a U.S. fashion brand? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: It wasn't me!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Which Minister of Finance had an advertisement switched on in the Financial Times? – That you were not, Mr Vice-Chancellor, of course, this is all clear; You are really a good, decent, economical and diligent Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Wow!]] [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: We need to place this!]] Which Minister of Finance held road shows and had consultants paid by taxpayers? All of this was Karl-Heinz Grasser. October 2009 in the “Mitagsjournal” said – quote –: “I am the victim of this shaky look.” The fact that he is the reason for this shaky look in many areas that I have listed earlier is that you really have to represent it. Privatizations, sales, consultants. – The system in all of this was: Gloria and Gloria for themselves and his friends, the taxpayers and taxpayers look through their fingers. Ladies and gentlemen, you have said earlier that we have now taken all the debts away from the ÖIAG. I think you also have to say: We have also taken away a lot of companies that were Austrian companies. – Only as much to your actions, with which you, as you say, have done everything in the ÖIAG. I would now like to come to the friends network of Karl-Heinz Grasser, to friends like Meischberger, Hochegger and Plech. Ex-FPÖ member of Meischberger, who had received “bar on the hand” in the nineties, without Zettel or so money, hundreds of thousands of schilling; that Meischberger, who was then legally sentenced to a penalty of 500 000 S in 1998, although the then FPÖ Secretary-General Westenthaler had at first spoken of it as a political condemnation or an innocent condemnation – however, in April 1999 FPÖ came up with the fact that it had to exclude former colleagues Meischberger from FPÖ – and that Meischberger, who was then “TenVirzig” with the advertising agency “ZehnVierzig” around 2000 – whatever commission distributions there was – came into business with the Ministry of Finance and did not charge commissions in the BUWOG sale process and was also wrong. ==References====External links== September 2009 points out that the judiciary has a lot to do: nested account distributions, unfairly related commissions, insider information. The list of assumptions and assumptions and, above all, the tricks for which taxpayers have to pay with their money is long. ==References== June 2003 in response to a urgent request that the €10.8 million proceeds of sale should be compared to Peanuts, which is only 1 per cent, so very little. The sale of the federal apartments. – The tenants were insecured, the apartments were spoiled, and others later gained the profits, said Professor Schneider, Institute of Economics at Linz University, on 1 January. ==References====External links== The Court of Auditors' report pointed out that, initially, the apartments were offered to tenants only half-heartedly, that the preparation of the sale was inadequate, that lawyers had been commissioned instead of their own lawyers of the Ministry of Finance, and that the sale could only be economic if the interest payments were lower for the debt to be paid. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is now on the train with high pressure. For me as a member of the current Committee of Inquiry, it is very important that the judiciary can now also take precautions that documents or other things do not disappear and remain lying, but that they are put to high pressure. Following this legal process, the political-parliamentary will then come.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15475	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15497	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Much has already been said today, and there have been many preconceptions and arguments here from the speaker's desk, which, as I believe, lack any basis. I was allowed to make four observations at the beginning. Mr Kogler, we are not at all afraid of this. There have been sufficient Court of Auditors reports and audits of tax authorities, financial institutions and other bodies. We stand for enlightenment, and we are always speaking and answering. The evidence of this is 53 parliamentary questions, Court of Auditors reports. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But they didn't put you! Thank you for the recognition!]] In fact, the only question remains: Do you want to acknowledge this, Mrs Moser, or do you not want to acknowledge it? The ÖVP clearly distances itself from accusations, accusations and unproven accusations. Each and every one of us can be displayed, and each and every one of us can be accused/s, as fast as it goes today, and in this case too it is. From the point of view of the ÖVP, it is so that we clearly put the courts in the foreground, and the courts are concerned. There is a ongoing procedure that identifies justice, the prosecutor's office is active and also the Court of Auditors. In 2007, we discussed a Court of Auditors report here in plenary and committee. As Parliament's control body, he has examined and submitted reports, and we do not doubt the Court of Auditors' reports. We also do not doubt that the Court of Auditors' subcommittee has clearly examined the desired things – advisory contracts, tendering and selection of evaluation criteria. There are improvements everywhere. That is five years ago, and in retrospect some understand a little better. I agree to quote two points from the Court of Auditors' report: The Court of Auditors criticises that, as a result of unclear wording in the draft contract of sale, the Federal Government has not itself taken advantage of the value-added effect of its abandonment of these rights. The Financial Procuratorship maintains this – opinion of 22. December 2005 – that it cannot be recognized by the agreement of 18.2.2005 in relation to the content of the offer, by the concrete conclusion of the contract. - Sure. In the Court’s view, the BMF has also failed to achieve “a price beyond a very conservative approach through attractive presentation of the companies for sale”. The BMF writes that the purchase price was formed in an open, transparent and competitive competition procedure, in which the bidders gave the outermost of their scope for movement through an additional subsequent round of offers. The purchase price was at the top of the valuation margin and is therefore also an excellent result internationally, as demonstrated by price comparisons with such transactions in other countries. The business evaluation was not known to the bidders and had no influence on price formation. [[Abg. Oillingers: Why are 10 million paid?]] That is how it can continue to be made clear. It is about the right of pre-purchasing, it is about the influence of the country of Carinthia, it is about documentation, it is about formulations. Mr Oellinger, one thing I do not think is clear: Why don't you actually want to acknowledge answers? Why can't we clearly separate between the parliamentary process and the courts and the prosecutor's office? [[Abg. Oils: 10 million!]] You will have to take note of this once! [[Abg. Oils: 10 million have not been left!]] And even if Mrs Moser throws up the subject even more often and treats it even more intensively, some things will not change. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But it has changed a lot!]] I think there is justice and injustice everywhere in life, but, Mrs Moser, you have this issue that you are calling for again and again, not permanently. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Thank God!]] Finally, I note: Enlightenment, if you still need it somewhere – yes; Suspects and pre-conceptions without evidence – no; Transparency, fairness and objectivity in the ongoing process – yes; political acting and self-scheduling – no! We assume our political responsibility. The Minister of Finance and Vice-President is present today and has been given a speech and an answer here. We strongly reject debt allocations. I think one should take note of a subject at some point and take note of what courts decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15606	Mr Hübner has now come to speak with five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15627	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gahr! I really do not understand one thing: as you can say now, you are doing everything you can to clarify and then refer to a report from the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Gahr: Parliamentary question..., colleague! Have you read it?]] Yes, all of us have read this, but you quote from the Court of Auditors' report and you're right that you haven't hindered the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Gahr: This is about recognition!]] That's not a reconnaissance. The Court of Auditors is an institution of Parliament which has examined this and has not, in any case, come to an end, it is all good and all the best, but it has itself said that it is somewhat inconceivable or inconceivable. [[Abg. Gahr: We said... Public prosecutor!]] - I've heard what you said. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Generally speaking, as far as the information we have received from Mr Vice-Chancellor today is concerned, it cannot be said seriously that the impression is raised that there is an interest in an unscrupulous reconnaissance. So one thing has to be able to clarify at least within the ministry, and the question is why the right of designation has been abandoned eight and a half months after the sale. I would have expected at least a clear answer to this, and every minister would have to say: Hoppala! Either this was already in the contract, in a secret clause, then one has been favoured by one who knew it, or it was not in the contract, then there are two ways: Either one has made a gift to the acquirer, or there has been another consideration for this declaration of remission. So all that is available in terms of possibilities means red light for the Minister, and there must, of course, be internal-ministerial surveys. There is no point in talking about the public prosecutor's office and not even a report from the Court of Auditors, which was received at a time when we knew nothing about all these things that we are reading about today in the newspapers and which we are talking about here today. Unfortunately, I cannot understand your comments here at all. A note on various other articles: We must not fall into the mistake of hanging the whole thing up to the person Grasser and his “friends” and now putting ourselves together and posing each other, he was with this or that party, he was still at the FPÖ or no longer at the FPÖ or already at the ÖVP, but it is about the system, and I think that as Austrian citizens we should be a little concerned, and we should also consider what impression people get from using their resources. You only need to remember a few words from the past. Eurofighter Committee: €6.6 million has been allocated to an agency of Ms. Erika Rumpold – “100% communications”. € 6.6 million has been paid to advisory fees from the company that sold something to the Republic of Austria. – There are no explanations for this. [[Call at the ÖVP:The Rumpold is the exclusive advisor to the FPÖ!]] The situation is very similar, it is almost equal to the present 9.6 million story, only that it was by 3 million less. At that time a committee of inquiry was set up, but when it really got hot – the end of the whole! [[Call the ÖVP: Dark blue!]] No one in the population, I think, has had the impression that a serious interest of the Republic and its representatives has existed in clarifying this question. But we can also go on: What we read in connection with the Republic of Austria and its legal care in the newspapers is not pleasing. Just think of the bag with ministerial attitudes from various procedures handed over to the newspaper “Falter”. I only take one out – you could only read it without, of course, getting information about the exact content of the file –: There is, for example, a system of recruitment in relation to the proceedings against the former Chief Prosecutor for Economic Affairs of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters. I do not want to make speculations at all, but I know from my own experience how many years there have been rumors about how many years one has received in formations that one, as someone who takes the law seriously, would actually have to freeze the blood in the veins. And here we find out from the paper, in a bag is a ministerial recruitment arrangement against a leading prosecutor inside. There is a need for action, and I believe that it does not need Parliament or a committee, but all the members of the Federal Government should say: Hoppala, now we're doing something! That this does not happen is more than regrettable and frightening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15738	Mr Grosz has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15759	Madam President. High house! I would like to begin by quoting something that should also be of interest to the ÖVP: We need pros and not just pros. I need the best heads on my team. Whoever has and wants responsibility must also allow unconventional things. Karl-Heinz Grasser has proven high professional and social competence with a remarkable commitment to all those who are not so well in this country, as Finance Minister. Karl-Heinz Grasser fits perfectly into our super team. He is one who stands for quality that preserves the content. He is actually very pleased that Karl-Heinz Grasser finally accepted the offer of the Austrian People's Party. – Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselim year 2002 in the APA-OTS. [[Abg. Riepl: The grass was one of you, wasn't it?]] [[Abg. Head: Now I'm excited at the points!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, there is probably no member of the ÖVP – and I think that is also true of the two members of the government – who did not find, at least until 2006, the most praiseworthy and heroic words for Mr Grasser: The best minister of finance of all time, the most beautiful and the best we can afford, the healer who brings milk and honey to our country. [[Abg. Head: When's the point coming?- Oh, my God!]] And today, ladies and gentlemen, the one who has incubated Karl-Heinz Grasser from 2002 onwards, Mr. Schüssel, does not even sit here because he surrounds a holy mountain in Tibet for four weeks – probably to do abbite for what he has done to us in 2002: [[Abg. May. Stadler: In Tibet!]] Karl-Heinz Grasser to bring him back to the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I would recommend to all of you to make a flight to Tibet for several years and to circle around the mountain several times, for all that you have done – at least to this day – in this country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] This scandal, ladies and gentlemen, which is now very slowly invading the surface, goes seamlessly to the scandal of Mrs. Hostasch and Mr. Jarolim, the “Euroteam” scandal, which is still classically attached to the BAWAG scandal, to the most recent black swamp Skylink – another topic of this black economy – or to the AKH scandal – actually to all that you have maintained in the great coalition for years and decades! [[Abg. Riepl: Let's talk about the Carinthian scandals!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I tell you, for me today is a happy day, because one also applies in this country: God's mills are slow, but they're sure they're grinding. [[Abg. Singer:... the scandals, that would be great!]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] These informa­tions and these scandals, which penetrate the public, are a late satisfaction for Jörg Haider, but also for Herbert Haupt, who refused to sit on the government bank with a Karl-Heinz Grasser in 2002. That is why I am very grateful that characterlessness, arrogance and lavish practices will not be worthwhile and that, by 2009 at the latest, ordinary treatment will be given by Austrian justice. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, you must not forget that Karl-Heinz Grasser is obviously also a personal development of nature. I am of the opinion that in the 1990s he was a strong, dynamic guy, a decent man, but apparently he was infected by a “virus” in 2002, by which many people in the ÖVP were affected. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Suddenly Karl-Heinz Grasser is at the centre of corruption, tax evasion and commission payments – of all that makes Skylink or the AKH scandal. You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP, should go into yourself once, check your own character standards and see how you are flexing this country with your scandals. And today we are discussing another scandal. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we from the BZÖ stand for complete information. We stand by the fact that this case of Grasser, Meischberger and Hochegger comes before the judiciary. We support the fact that this affair here in this House is also completely politically clarified, because this Minister of Finance is side by side as a Minister of Agriculture, shoulder to shoulder with Karl-Heinz Grasser sitting in the Council of Ministers – in the Council of Ministers discussions, as coordinator et cetera. [[Abg. Wöger: Is the BZÖ left or right?]] I am sure that if something actually happened in such a big case as the BUWOG affair, which was well known within the ÖVP. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Hornek.]] That is why we are looking forward to developments and will closely observe the extent to which these BUWOG links do not reach you, ladies and gentlemen, into the ÖVP. [[Inter-remarks of Vice-Cancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll and State Secretary Dr. Lopatka.]] Ladies and gentlemen, High House: Provision payments, lubricating payments, suspicion of lubricating payments in the framework of commission payments, invitations to tender for the damage of the Republic, friend economy in the amount of – according to suspicion – € 10 million, all this cannot be done in a rule of law like Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I also urge you from the ÖVP to let the independent judicial system in Austria operate and not send a party-political justice to cover up, as you have done at the Althaus scandal, or as we now know from the Parliament's investigative committee that you are accessing the police, investigation agencies and judicial authorities in order to bend in your interest the third pillar of the state – independent justice. I therefore ask you not to make a mistake in this case too, but really – even in the knowledge that Mrs Bandion-Ortner is an ÖVP minister who hangs on the tape of the vice chancellor – to finally allow, at least in this case, that there are proper investigations, which will then also become known to the public and after which Parliament must also have the necessary consequences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] We are in favour of this clarification, and I hope that we can finally end this further sad chapter of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16001	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. The total residence time of the Greens is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16022	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I find – without any cynicism, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – that you have given a great chance. You have given the chance to conclude with the system Grasser, which has marked this republic for years, although now the peat bulls become visible. The fact that these are barely handled by politics leads them to an even greater distrust and also loss of political culture in that country. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, your demand for precision – if you say so – I will try to meet it. Let us look at this in concrete terms – and I would expressly not want to address the BUWOG privatisation in particular. Let's get another privatisation. It is, relatively modest – let's start with the little one – that the Austrian Federal publisher was privatized in 2002. Mr. Grasser has previously spoken of a sales price of €50 million, it has become €24 million. But what do these €24 million look like? €24 million was paid in several instalments, with the first rate of €1 million, and only after several years had the majority of the sales price – about €21 to €22 million – to be redeemed. Until then, the Republic has, as it were, only required € 1 million from the buyer and, at the same time, given € 1 million to the buyer for running this business. That is, at first there was nothing to pay at all, and there was a silent loan over several years without any interest rate. Wouldn't you like it in your community to give you 24 or 25 million euros and say: I'm not paying interest, and you'll pay in four to five years!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: When was that? Is that a story lecture?]] The second exciting point in this small, modest privatisation was an advisory or sales fee for the group that accompanied this privatisation. Usually it was and is 1 percent that you all know from the Court of Auditors reports, even with the BUWOG it was no different – only in this case there was 4 percent for KPMG because this privatisation was supposedly so difficult. [[Abg. Brosz: It even knew Meischberger!]] It was not a problem for the Republic to pay generous fees in the privatisation – or the consulting firm that dealt with it. The second example is Telekom privatisation. Thank you, Mr Strutz, for addressing this. Before the Deutsche Telekom's exchange, you knew it wouldn't run so well. The stock has been signed. What happened? An institutional investor has been granted special conditions just before the exchange, which they have also accepted thankfully, in addition to the terms and conditions indicated on the stock exchange prospectus: They got even cheaper. What have the institutional investors done? You can read this, see the development of the stock market: On the first day of the exchange, all institutional investors sold the shares they had just bought very cheaply and therefore, first of all, put down the price of the Telekom share properly. They have thus drawn up for themselves a special return, which Minister of Finance, Grasser, has provided them with. Now to the third point, and there it will be interesting now: High-speeder. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: History lecture!]] Mr Federal Minister or Deputy Chancellor, you have said that you can only answer what is in your immediate field. However, you may also be able to answer what has been done in the downstream facilities, for example in the Bundesrechenzentrum – in your area of responsibility – in consulting services. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Please, the question is answered exactly!]] How many hundred thousand euros has Hochegger collected over the years from the Bundesrechenzentrum? How many hundred thousand euros did Hochegger cash from the ÖBB? How many hundred thousand or million euros has Hochegger collected from Deutsche Telekom? – Do you think we're not going to start putting that on the table? That's where the system Hochegger and Grasser becomes interesting. What's High Egger for Grassers? . I say: unemployment insurance, or you can also call it life insurance; exactly these deals, the other deals that were made and Mr Grasser for the post-political period – insofar as he has thought ahead – create favourable conditions. If you look at the Hochegger system, you can see that there is one at work that can live well with the principle “do ut des”, “I give so that you give”, and that also applies it in your own company. In the company Hochegger politicians such as Grasser or Strasser or what I know with special conditions are, so to speak, permanently kept in the system. They will then also receive money for being available for services. That is why, Minister of State or Deputy Chancellor, it would have been good to have this discussion with the Grasser system more openly and not just to say [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] I don't know. My name's rabbit. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Did I not answer just one question?]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! As you can still hold so many future congresses and transparency congresses, this will not be enough to secure the future of the EIA in this country as a party and as a supporter of political culture. On the contrary, you've been playing this capital today!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16136	Mr Wittmann has now come to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16157	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! What do we have about facts? – The fact is that Karl-Heinz Grasser and the members of the government have given orders to plate several times during this time to Hochegger. We know that. In addition, Plech became the Supervisory Board of some influential companies, which were later to be sold. That's also a fact. The fact is that the name Hochegger appears again and again as that of an advisor to Karl-Heinz Grasser. Now the name Hochegger appears, but not because he was a consultant, but because he is a by-product of another financial scandal, namely the financial scandal of real estate finance. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wasn't he with you once...?]] [[Abg. Grosz: One who once at the SPÖ...!]] [[Further call-ins]] Due to the house searches at Immofinanz, it was only because of the fact that Hochegger not only collected consultant fees, but also hidden mediation fees over the Immoeast. Now I'm wondering, Why do I have to hide the fee I get when selling the BUWOG in commission payments from the Immoeast? – In my opinion, that is enough reason for me to have the prosecutor's office identified and finally put the judicial apparatus in motion, because there is something that has to be wrong. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Hochegger was once SPÖ consultant!]] Otherwise I could have disclosed this conciliation commission. The second is: I would not have paid a tax for this as a high-leveler and as a Meischberger if not by chance the Immofinanz scandal would have appeared. That means we're coming back to Meischberger. Meischberger has already said at the football club: Money's always good at hand! [[Abg. Brosz: Bar!]] Not somewhere on an account – bar on the handle! The fact is that this money has been transferred to an account in Cyprus that has been heard by a company close to Hochegger. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Here you know well how to move the money, at BAWAG!]] Now I'm wondering, Why do I transfer that back to Liechtenstein when I'm Meischberger, and don't leave it in Cyprus? – That must have a reason too. [[Abg. Grosz: But there you have at the BAWAG...!]] A reason must have that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe the BAWAG has advice?]] That is, only those masking measures that have been taken there are a case for the prosecutor, because there is something behind that. I don't need to think about it, there's something behind it! That is, there are so many clues there that you should really leave the prosecutor's office alone in order to avoid quickly drawing political conclusions about newspaper reports. I think there are two reasons why I transfer this to Liechtenstein: either to hide that I was there or to hide who was there. These two reasons exist. Also the physical transport of black money – we must not forget that it was black money until then – is a difficulty, as I know from my experience as a mass manager at the ÖKG. [[Aha-Rufe at ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] – I was on the side of the good, if you remember! [[Call the ÖVP:Freud’s failure!]] [[Further calls.]] But that's why we know that the transport of black money for people who have been trying to get behind the state is a problem. Therefore, it was probably transferred to Liechtenstein because it was easier to transport there. That too should be examined. I believe that you will then come to a very thick soup, which will entitle the prosecutor to file a petition and also to file an indictment. You should wait for that and really do it. Two things are, of course, a little questionable for me in this discussion. The first is: Mr President, it cannot really be your seriousness to talk about a successful privatisation if I sell at a square meter price of 236 € apartments, which at this time have achieved a square meter price of 1 400 € and which now, in a deep depression of the real estate market, still achieves more than 1 000 €! Since we are talking about a successful privatisation, it is really courageous. I think that this is one of the largest flops in the Second Republic and to conceal the wealth of the state par excellence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's not successful, that's dilettantism. It's pure dilettantism! I believe that Mr Vice-Chancellor will not very much agree with Mr Gahr's speech. Mr Gahr, you say you do not doubt the Court of Auditors. Do you know what the Court of Auditors report says? – That the subsequent task of the right of designation has caused a damage of €200 million! Do not be angry, but if you recognize this, you will say the opposite to the Minister of Finance, because he said that the financial procuratorship has strongly rejected it. So there's something wrong with that. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: There is a...!]] They say it's all right to have suffered a damage of €200 million, and on the other hand, it's all over. So that's not correct either, but in principle, I think the soup is thick enough that the prosecutor's office should continue in peace and that one should not intervene disturbingly here. I guarantee you that this Liechtenstein story and the connection to Austria will still bring much light to light, which is not yet known. You must not forget one thing: This has arisen from a criminal case, it is now becoming another criminal case, and one has a commission flow that has ultimately only served to cover up that commission coming from this business. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And at the end we are at the Federal Government!]] That is, all these clues are once suspicious, and what has to happen is to clarify. That is why, at the moment, there is no committee of inquiry! The emphasis is on “currently”, but I am sure that this Causa will continue to deal with us even longer and that the soup will become still thick enough that the prosecutor’s office will take its steps and, in the final consequence, the Parliament will also have to find it afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16336	It is now coming to the attention of the honourable Member. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16358	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! The tendency and will of this urgent request can already be seen in the explanatory statement. I'm allowed to quote briefly: “The ÖVP leadership at that time under Chancellor Schüssel and the club members Khol and Molterer has always fully supported Grasser and prevented an effective investigation of the operations.” [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] Further: “They have two options as the responsible management director and ÖVP-Obmann: the further protection of the “grasser system” in the style of the old ÖVP leadership by refusing a complete and effective parliamentary reconnaissance, or the break with the previous party line and the reconnaissance of all favours at the parliamentary level.” [[Newer detonatative condolences with the greens.]] I believe that we agree on the complete reconnaissance, and it is likely that the last one here has already noticed that we are full of it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] The only thing that is the question here is: Who's going to explain? – I believe that this should not be a political tribunal, but the relevant institutions. These are still the courts in Austria in criminal proceedings and not the politicians themselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To prepare the system of grasses at the parliamentary level – we have the legal side, there are the courts on the train. There is a ongoing procedure, and we have full confidence in Austrian justice, which must act independently and free of political interlocutors. Full cooperation and transparent cooperation between the Federal Ministry of Finance and Public Prosecutors are guaranteed and of course. Even Karl-Heinz Grasser must have an interest in a complete reconnaissance. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and Greens.]] Let us now come to parliamentary work. It was the time before I was in this house, but I let myself be told that this topic was here in the house. The subject area has been examined by the Court of Auditors and we have just heard it before. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... an destructive judgment!]] There were Court of Auditors subcommittees, the Court of Auditors said it was in plenary, and more than 50 parliamentary questions were naturally answered. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The statements are often mentioned: According to media reports who, what, when, where, how – please nice, you operate media justice here! They are based on individual statements. Here you come with examples: a Mr. Meischberger, knocked for information at Immofinanz in order to demand a success premium, link Hochegger/Meischberger/Grasser, “Valora Solutions” company, statements by a certain Mr. Ramprecht, who used to be a member of the Grasser Cabinet. [[Abg. Brosz: Were these not statements?]] Personalities probably also; who knows what happened between the two gentlemen! We already have the counter-pronunciation here. There is another example of these mutual accusations as to how one can read in the tomorrow - published magazine “NEWS, ” in which one accuser tries to burden the others. I'm not a light-seer, but I can guarantee you one today [[Abg. Brosz: But do you know what personal circumstances are?]] In the next few weeks this will often go back and forth, one will accuse the other and one again the other. It cannot be Parliament's task to play political court here on the basis of mutual accusations. We are talking about serious accusations here. We have the record of tax evasion, infidelity, suspicion of official abuse, mystery, illegal agreements. The question is: Who's the prosecutor? – That can only be the courts in these cases! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The political responsibility lies, of course, with the respective Minister, who was in office at the time. But this subversive attempt to make the successful government work of a Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel bad is really cheap! The representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ of the defendants, of course, are also responsible for child care. After splitting, you don't know who belongs. The BZÖ is in itself in disagreement, you have there perceptive and representational problems, you no longer know where they were, who with whom, and who belongs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Grosz, you have made a very striking self-identification in a “ZiB” interview. To the question of your political style you have answered: I refer to myself as “Haiderian” or “Haiderian”; I think I have quoted it correctly. Without further commenting on your personal culture for a deceased politician, I would like to point out that from the political side, the people who have been accused here are probably also most likely to be referred to as “Haiderians” and should not now be suspended from the political strategy of the EIAP!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16493	Now comes Mr. Ing. Heard to speak. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16517	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Maybe a short while to my previous speaker, Johannes, it's not about making the government bowl ready, but it's about discovering the era and the system of grasses in a complete way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, there is a need to clarify the political responsibilities in the form of an investigative committee – and not at some point, not after any investigations have been completed, during which a prosecutor may leave any documents, but immediately! I could see that there is a consensus on discovering these things, and I do not understand why no committee of inquiry should be set up. Back to the matter: “Mr. Cool and the Gang, recently an Austrian news magazine called the system Grasser, summarized briefly: the legendary “Buberlpartie” Jörg Haiders. Since last night, the BUWOG affair has certainly got a different dimension. The alleged entrepreneur, the alleged manager, the alleged doctoral candidate – always from graces of Haider and Schüssels, you have to say that in this context, of course – Karl-Heinz Grasser has finally lost his artificial paint! He's lost his polish, and that's a good thing. I think Grasser is more like a Don Quijote today, a knight of sad shape. That is what we have to say in this context. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prehauser.]] According to the Court of Auditors, 60,000 federal apartments were destroyed too cheaply. The winning consortium, namely the Immofinanz Group, was around 1 million euros above the second bidder – a very strange situation, one has to find here. A witness – the name has already fallen a few times before – has always spoken of a cardd game here. Once we go into ourselves a little bit, we can imagine that it was. Grasser is now being led as an accuser, finally as an accused person. There are things in the area such as serious fraud, abuse of office, incitement to official abuse, tax evasion. Of course, the presumption of innocence applies to the former Minister of Finance, but if I can look back on some of the inconsistencies of this old Carinthian star, we may also be able to see a few things. Karl-Heinz Grasser, a cute child, was said to have been a campaign for “New Economy” for the tax-saving self-treatment of the then homepage, on which Karl-Heinz Grasser was seen as a cute child. That was pure at the time, and ultimately neither this proposed association nor grasser paid taxes as the last beneficiary himself. [[Inter-calls at BZÖ and the Greens.]] What was the conclusion then? – “My name is rabbit, I know of nothing,” and everything was turned under the carpet! The famous, well-known yacht trips with Julius Meinl... [[Abg. May. Kogler: Were all there!]] Yes, there was Grasser, of course; but again, on the yacht... [[Abg. May. Stadler: You ran after him too!]] Who? I ran after the grass? - Well, you're cheating! That's where you're gonna be huge! [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Who hit Grasser on that yacht? – Nobody else than Wolfgang Flöttl, the mega-pleitier in the course of the BAWAG scandal! But again: Grasser, of course, didn't have a conversation with Flöttl, he only did love songs with his Fiona. Well, there's a point of view! How did Grasser react? – Once more: “My name is Hase, I know of nothing,” talks were not conducted. I would like to recall his managership at Meinl International Power. He has collected so-called management fees, but unfortunately he has put a lot of small investors to their savings. No problem either – in turn, he has gone into the fog, and no man knows why! He's always over these things. Now to his friends – I mentioned it earlier, mostly from the legendary “buberl party”: Walter Meischberger, excluded from FPÖ in 1999 for tax evasion and one of the main figures. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Excluded from the FPÖ! Peter Hochegger, lobbyist, also one of the main figures in this BAWAG, no, BUWOG scandal. - You have to be confused! There have been so many scandals in recent years, you don't even know what, BUWOG, BAWAG. No matter what scandal: Grasser was usually there. Ernst Karl Plech, who was raised by ÖVP Minister Grasser in twelve Supervisory Boards, among other things to Immofinanz, into a company at which BUWOG won the consortium. That's all weird! But no, Grasser doesn't know anything, he's got a flower-white vest. I am actually surprised that another “buberl” did not find the inclusion in this BUWOG swamp, that is Rumpold. He has received a 7 million order from Grasser, or with Grasser's support, in order to consecrate the Eurofighters. But be it as it may be, the light foot Grasser has always tried to stand above these things. He has very often confused the boundaries between private and public, these boundaries are constantly running out. Grasser always had a super-clean conscience in all these scandals and painters and was constantly victim of a shabby look. Of course, I ask here in this plenary room: How stupid do these gentlemen think we are? – Of course, that can't be it, so we have to make this swamp clear to everyone! I give you all the right, the judicial system is on the train, but also the Parliament in the course of an investigation committee. Finally, I would like to say once again that all these rulerships, which I have now reported, are, on the one hand, far from any liberal attitude. They have nothing to do with the FPÖ under Heinz-Christian strate. If I look into the round like this, the lamentable rest will find its home at “Bosporus to Austria”. With us in the FPÖ, for such people there is no political home!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16625	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. Total period of residence of SPÖ: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16647	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! We've already had a number of criminal puzzles. I would like to try again today. Let us once believe all the gentlemen involved around what they say, and let us try to put the puzzle together briefly to determine whether there is more than a suspicion of criminal acts to be pursued by the criminal authorities, or whether things that we have learned from tomorrow's issue of "NEWS" have brought us closer to the question that we must also deal with political responsibility. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I believe that the thesis is undisputed that Parliament cannot be responsible for the detection of criminal behaviour. Parliament is, however, the only institution to have the consequences where weaknesses occur in the administration and where political responsibility must be called for. Let's stick to what we all believe: Then the facts were such that Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Michael Ramprecht, at that time chief of the awarding commission, says, and this is what we take from the “profile” of the 5th century. October, that he was made aware by Ernst Karl Plech that it is clear – “We have the order who will be” – that is, the buyer of the BUWOG. "The IMMOFINANZ is to be. We know where the trip is going. The aim is to become the IMMOFINANZ.” – A matter of one, Ramprecht. Cases two: The same sheet is the Supervisory Board of the BUWOG. We have not yet been allowed to read that statement in the paper, but probably today the one who has done Hochegger. To tomorrow’s “NEWS” we see that it was Meischberger, that bar-on-handerl-Meischi, who was already quoted today, who came to Hochegger and explained to him that he had to make contact with Karl Petrikovics. It is intended to consult the IMMOFINANZ in this auction procedure, but only uses the same thing that it has very limited access to the real estate area. Meischberger says: “This is not a problem and he can obtain the necessary information. ” Furthermore, Hochegger states that he initially accepted his share by 25 percent, and that it had come to a joint meeting at the Wiener Hotel Imperial, interestingly again with a certain Ernst Karl Plech. It was agreed that the fee, which may remain high-ranking, would amount to 20 percent and would have to be passed on to 80 percent. Let us assume that all these things that we know today have been truthfully declared before the prosecutor's office. Let's also believe that Karl-Heinz Grasser didn't know anything about all of this. Then at this point we still know one thing: If that is true, the head of the awarding commission has been led by a Supervisory Board appointed by the Republic of Austria, who organized a meeting of Meischi-Hochegger, in which case he personally took over the negotiations on the distribution of the prey, namely the commissioning officer who grew up from corruption, because he said Ramprecht, who was an employee of Grasser, at the same time that it must become the IMMOFINANZ. Because of this situation alone, if this is not contradicted in criminal proceedings, we will not be able to discuss it here, because if there are Commissions in this Republic in which a single person can predict what comes out, €9.6 million of lubrication money is paid, then Parliament needs some information. [[Abg. Oils: Eben!]] The question of neglect, the question of abuse of office, all other issues are matters of criminal jurisdiction. The question of the political decision on how this award procedure has come to be, however, is one that will then land here. Therefore, our non-consent to the Committee of Inquiry last week, as it has formulated Günther Herbs, applies to the same extent. [[Abg. Oillinger: “Here ”?]] Now, away from the crime, to the overall situation: Mr Grosz, that it was an infectious virus of the ÖVP, as you think, which changed this young, emerging Buberl party member Karl-Heinz Grasser in 2002 is quite unlikely. It is likely, however, that Grasser has learned a system in this buberl party. [[Oho-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] For example, who has heard the IMMOFINANZ and the Constantia? That was the Turnauer group in the end. Let us remember how the cash case was picked up by the club director at the time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Take this back with the cash cases!]] The system has been taught. You've seen how the system works. At that time the money in the suitcase was collected cash, today they are already doing it more skillfully about Delaware and Liechtenstein. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you think you're the President of the Court of Auditors?]] Two and a half decades of experience as a defender in financial crimes tell me that you, ladies and gentlemen, when the share of high-eggers is reduced from 25 percent to 20 percent, you can safely assume that not only four people have participated in it, but that there were five. We already know two: Bar-on-the-Handel-Meischi and Hochegger. [[Abg. Grosz: Hochegger is a red one!]] Maybe there's the real estate speculators. Who were the other two? Finding out will be the task of the prosecutor's office. I am convinced that Mrs. Bandion-Ortner, the Federal Minister, will not stand up to the suspicion that there is no case in the case of protesters, that she will do everything she can to make accusations. And then we will hear the statements before the criminal court in public hearing. I am convinced that then time is enough for us to be able to shoulder political responsibility. I can't blame you for having been a great friend to Karl-Heinz Grasser or even being. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16790	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16812	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of the BZÖ towards SPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Westenthaler, can I? - Good, thank you. I am right for Mr Wittmann when he says that total sales were questionable in themselves, because it would certainly have been possible to achieve a higher price through partial sales. In this context, it is also incomprehensible to me that this total sale, which was then a government decision, was only known to Mr Grasser and not also to the members of the government of the ÖVP, who were also sitting on the government bank at that time. It's a little incomprehensible to me. I would like to say to my colleague, 'Schlagenschlager': We're not running a child's trail! We already admit that in the course of our party history, one or the other was in our party, where we found sometime that he did not fit into our baseline, not to our understanding. That is why we also have, for example, and this can be read for everyone on the Parliament's homepage, on 21 January. Walter Meischberger was excluded from the party on 4 April 1999. This can even be read for everyone on the Parliament's homepage. In view of this claim that we are child-moving, we cannot. This happened ten years ago, and everything that happened after that is far away from us. [[Abg. Haubner: Who excluded him?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Could he even let him out?]] The FPÖ has excluded him! Please read that! [[New calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Grosz.]] In autumn 2002, Mr. Grasser left FPÖ. It can still remind everyone of this famous television interview, where the three ministers and Klubobmann Westenthaler have sat and said they say to the FPÖ adieu, they go, they sprang this government. With her you can't make a state anymore, they said they're taking the hat, they're going, they're putting all the offices back. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A legendary event!]] This was because the pressure of the base, the pressure of the FPÖ, the officials, who are mostly represented here in the National Council today, was simply too great. That means we said: Whoever sits in the government, no matter what person it is, must also represent the basic idea of freedom in the government. And because this has not happened, we have put pressure on this government from the base. The pressure was so great that he then landed in Knittelfeld in 2002, very painful for us. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Were you there too?]] - No, I wasn't there. Knittelfeld is very painful in the history of the party, because he then used it as a trigger for new elections. We have had to take a painful note of our conscience, which we have been party to, that we ourselves have betrayed our government members for their actions, because the electorate has also punished us. [[Abg. Grosz: Learn Party History!]] I tell you, the officials who ran at the time did not understand what the government was doing, and at that time we also partially understood the electorate why he was punishing us for doing so. [[Abg. Grosz: You understood that?]] We said: It can't go on like this! However, when the government team wanted to continue in this way, the pressure became so high that the government members with a few other top officials even removed such that they founded a new party. Therefore, for all those who do not understand this here in the House: It is relatively easy to explain. There is a basis of the FPÖ, a movement that stands for basic values which stands for their concerns, which stands for what we promise the voters. And there was a government team, which obviously were their own interests superior to the party interests. Again: In autumn 2002, Mr Grasser changed to the ÖVP, and the call we are discussing today was in August 2003. But what interests me is: Who was still involved in this real estate deal? Now you hear in the public of Meischberger and Hochegger, but: Is that just the tip of the iceberg, or is that really all? Or is there anyone else who is interested in the fact that this is not being clarified, who is trying to darken here, who does not want it to be revealed? [[Abg. Grosz: Maybe a little bit yourself?]] Who paid for what services? If I hear here that so much money has flown, then there must be not only one recipient, but also someone who has paid for it. I also have to say that I was surprised that the Court of Auditors, although having checked it, could not find out these commission payments that have now been made. Finally, as an animal protection speaker, allow me to take a short trip to the animal kingdom. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr. Vice-Kanzler Pröll, when you were last week Your statement on the state of the nation, I believe you are the lion of the nation. But I have to say, you're the rabbit: Your name is Hase, you know nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16986	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17035	Mr President. High house! Mr Vock is the living proof that you are allowed to speak in this House if you do not know yourself. The “hare ” you quoted was a Prussia, and it has nothing to do with the animal kingdom. But please, this is another chapter. I don't want to deal with these things at all. Ladies and gentlemen, look, I am certainly not suspected of ever having been particularly sensitive to Mr Grasser. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Oh, yes!]] No, no, no, Unlike some people here in this house, I'm good at my account. Everyone who knows how the relationship between Karl-Heinz Grasser and Ewald Stadler was knows that this was characterized by a well-kept enmity. Ladies and gentlemen, I always thought Grasser was one of the biggest blenders in this republic. [[Call the FPÖ:Go!]] Günter Stumvoll knows. When grass was changed to you, I said: With the blender I wish you good luck; there is now something you have dealt with! It's usually like an infection. I told you at the time: He'll fly you around your ears! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can say that to the BZÖ now!]] [[Abg. Head: Where were you then?]] What I didn't know was that it'll take so long for him to fly you around the ears. However, it took some time, and now this blender has still landed where he belongs, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you want to know exactly, I also said this to your uncle at the time: How can you take it? – We were glad that we had ridded him, as did Heide Schmidt. We'd put a mesh on him to get rid of him. The ÖVP has thus taken over Grasser – and now it is flying you around the ears. But that is right for you, ladies and gentlemen, you have had a sense of blender, and then you have caught the greatest of the Republic! However, the SPÖ should not act as if it had nothing to do with them, because Mr Hochegger, ladies and gentlemen, was a prominent red man, I believe. Or? A friend of Viktor Klima! So don't pretend that these people are all strange to you, as if you were to hear from them for the first time, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! No, no, there's already a certain vulnerability of government parties to people like Grassers and Hochegger, who then gather like vermins around some excrements, who then always circle around it, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's similar here too! The arrogant Mr Winkler also fits into this whole environment very well. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Who?]] – Mr Winkler. I don't know if you remember that. It was this most beautiful cabinet chief of all time. As he did before the committee, like a diva! You didn't know who's better now: the boss or his servant? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At the action community he was, with the black students!]] A special class blender number! How the ÖVP could take over this blender number was a mystery to me. We obviously know today that it was not just glare. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the time I was already meeting this axis, which regularly met at Mr Plech in Droß above, in the forest district, on the estate in Droß, Suspekt. [[Abg. Dr. Stummfully demonstrates his wonder.]] – weren't you there? Didn't they invite you? - Jöh, jeh, jeh. So, please, this game has met regularly up there. They drove to China with each other, they drove to the United States. At one time, Mr. Plech was in the Supervisory Board of the BIG, and at one time he was in the Supervisory Board of the BUWOG – and then the BUWOG was ruined. And today it turns out that non-explainable commission payments are linked to it. This whole game has already occurred to me suspect at the time. That's enough for me. That was one of the reasons – if you want to know exactly – why, unlike Mr Vock in Knittelfeld, I really was there. I'm sure these people were in the wrong place, believe me! And today this proves to be true. This is where blenders were sitting on the government bench who would never have wanted to go there. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Don't point at me!]] - No, not you! You just took over. They had a certain sense for blenders that had to be taken over as an old load. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: At the time, I firmly believed that this man was one of the main reasons why more people in this country, than necessary, had been rejected by the German government at the time. That wouldn't have been necessary! Karl-Heinz Grasser is one of the main responsible for this, and he's already made sure his boyfriends all got on the train. But please, dear friends of the FPÖ, they have been your people too! You've all gone after them in a row. But of course, Christian, you were one too! [[in the direction of the Abg. Ing. Höbart]] I remember the casinos Austria event with Mr. Grasser when he was on stage and you gave him a big applause there, the big entrepreneurship wuzzi. Let's get to a current topic. Can you explain this picture to me? I really know about photos of Heinz-Christian Strache. I'll explain this photo to you, it's another one. So, you can see here Mr Lasar, Vienna's FPÖ member, who – what's his name in this article? – “Hump-Dump Hilmar Kabas”, which almost already picks up the coin to the top because he sees Walter Meischberger. – Do you know where they recorded it? At 40. Birthday of Heinz-Christian Strache, this year in June! [[Jöh-Rufe at BZÖ and ÖVP.]] So I never wanted to see Mr. Meischberger with me on a birthday – I had driven him out! – nor would I have wanted to see Mr. Grasser there. However, I have never invited Mr Hump-Dump to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the right game has already met. Do you know how long this photo was on HC Strache's homepage? – Until the BUWOG scandal has flown up. You haven't found it since. Now you depend on newspaper articles. Until then, this photo was a renommier photo; you have shown yourself with Meischberger. Now at once you don't want to show yourself again, ladies and gentlemen! So who's in need of explanation? - We certainly don't, and I'm the least. Each one of you knows! I've never had anything to do with these figures. And to Mr. Vock, something else was written in the main book: You didn't throw anyone out there at the time. Meischberger – that was one of my achievements – had to explain back there that he had to leave the club immediately after “bar on the hand”. [[The speaker points in the direction of the rear benches]] I was a business manager down there at the time, and there Meischberger had to explain this to me, because otherwise I would have drove with him quite differently. So there in the back, Meischberger had to tell me that he was leaving the club, ladies and gentlemen! This is my political hygiene – unlike you! I didn't invite anyone to birthday with whom I didn't want to have anything to do with before. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I don't know what Heinz-Christian Strache promises from these people. I don't know! It just has to look out for Fiona – and it is desirable for Heinz-Christian Strache. He likes to be part of the jet set, he'd love to be part of it. I've never had such a prophylaxis! [[Ironic Ah-Rufe at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I've always known who I am, what I can do. I don't need Fiona, I don't need a jet set, I don't need a grass, I don't need a miner, I don't need a "Hump dump". I don't need them all, ladies and gentlemen, but you need them! That's why: Look at this! This is not our old burden, but that's your new burden you've dealt with. [[Abg. Hornek: A beautiful family party!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] So much for being able to say today, you have nothing to do with it, you have lost them all – and then you invite them to the birthday celebration. If he wanted to invite the old comrades for his birthday, he could have sent me an invitation. Maybe I'd even come. Who knows? [[Abg. Hornek: Family meetings!]] But I would have said: Oh, there is the Meschberger, there is the grasserman not far – and there I go again! I would certainly have delivered it there. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this committee of inquiry, which comes, will come a hundred percent. This committee of inquiry, Mr Vice-Chancellor, is coming. The investigation committee just doesn't come for that now – I quote Wittmann – “not at the moment” – did I really quote you? – and Matznetter says “not yet,” but I can tell you how long he will not come: He won't come as long as you can continue the coalition for some time. Now the SPÖ finally has a pressure agent against the ÖVP. So if you keep making such important speeches, as you are now with the hacker rule and so on, then the threat comes: Investigation Committee Grasser! If you continue to believe from the ÖVP that you can march again in premature new elections, then the Grasser Investigation Committee will come. This is meant “not at present, ” which is meant“ not yet. ” Now the SPÖ finally has a pressure medium. I know you don't have to be afraid. [[in the direction of the Abg. Header]] I don't know. How close were you with the grass? Economic Federation? [[Abg. Head shakes no head.]] Isn't it? But you have organized a lot of shows for him, I remember. Yes, of course, Grasser was your "wonderwuzzi" in the Economic Federation; you didn't have enough grasses at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Head: No, no!]] So don't pretend you don't even know Grasser. You all went after him like the interest of bad money. So it is, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, it is not so pleasant if you have to make a campaign and at the same time a committee of inquiry with the Karl-Heinz Grasser. This is not pleasant for the ÖVP. The SPÖ therefore says that “not yet. ” [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] I hear you're already preparing for election. You've already got a oat. You of the ÖVP have a few election successes – and you are already thinking about how to let the coalition burst. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now “it’s enough” again!]] That is why, for example, Mr. Vice-Kanzler, your own coalition partner is sorry that he is not allowed to invite a minister – he would like to – in the Committee of Inquiry, because it is a loud black minister or ex-minister and because the ÖVP is already threatened with a coalition break. [[New interim remark from Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] But yes! In the meantime, this is a blind man with the floor. The oats are coming back to you. A few percent in a federal country – and again the ÖVP has the desire of power. It's normal! We know the ÖVP long enough. Why do you want her to change? And now the SPÖ finally has a pressure medium, ladies and gentlemen – and this pressure medium will come sooner or later. And then we'll be there.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17319	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. The Group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17340	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I have looked at today relatively carefully how you have made this urgent request and the reply. It was started at lunch in the APA, where it seems from your resort that you do not intend to appear in Parliament today, but rather send your colleague Lopatka. They then apparently still realized that it would be a bit difficult if the accusation of failure came so directly. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You don't have to worry about that!]] We are not worried, Mr Vice-Chancellor, but I have known you for a long time, and I think it was the first time that you have not used a urgent request in your time to say a word for introduction. And that's significant because you can usually talk about a quarter of an hour, 20 minutes, how the world is actually related and what's inside before you go straight into the answer. You left this out completely today, without saying a word about it. Why? – Because of course exactly the question we asked and which was also asked honestly: Do you use today's urgent request for a removal or a defense of the system?, would have fallen at any introduction. They have tried to change it, and now we can draw our conclusions from the form of reply. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have given answers on a number of points, especially when it comes to the question of orders to Hochegger, and if you cross it now, then you get it – that is, you have not answered how high the total amount was; if I have written it properly, I come to € 3.1 million – that Mr Hochegger and his companies under Karl-Heinz Grasser have received € 3.1 million. As you always address the question of criminal responsibility: This is not yet criminally responsible or relevant, if anyone is basically given fees, but it is about political responsibility. And a fee of €2,359 million, as you have said, only in the field of SMEs and the roadshow is a question this House here, which this Parliament has to answer, to what extent it was justified politically. Here you have given answers, but the questions stand out. Jewellery beater, I think, was it that indicates it's show what to play there. Since when are the statements Ramprechts known? – We have known the statements of Ramprecht for about 14 days. That's exactly the allegations that Grasser explicitly told him how this award should go. And the point is: One is the criminal procedure, and the other is the political responsibility to be clarified here. But if we cannot make witnesses here in the house, then much will remain in the dark, which you are now responsible for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question was explicitly addressed to you whether you, as Minister of Finance, believe that a committee of inquiry would be in favour of this House. Your answer, that's what the plenary decides, we already know. We also know that you refused, otherwise we wouldn't have gotten that far last week, but it's probably about really putting light in the dark. If you make yourself here and say that too many questions, such as whether you can rule out the fact that Grasser has passed on relevant information from the procedure, you were not responsible, then I ask you how you are actually dealing with the right to interact in this House. What does that mean? The moment a new minister comes, everything else that was before is sacrosan? Yeah, who would we have asked? Mr Grasser, who answered it himself? “Mr. Karl-Heinz Grasser, have you perhaps pushed the procedure yourself?” – That would have been an answer that would have been original. The next one that was responsible was Mr Molterer, who was in a very direct relationship with Grasser and where we could not really have expected a break with the Grasser system. The one who left out the chance, you've been today. You would have the chance to say that I do not want to have anything more to do with this system Grasser and ÖVP old. You missed this opportunity today. In conclusion: Today, the President-in-Office has become aware of the extent to which criminal investigations and Parliament actually have to do with each other, and there is a request from the public prosecutor to submit the protocols of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in the Petrikovits case. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Yeah, why? – Because there appears to have been relevant information that is also relevant to criminal proceedings. In this case, we will have to clarify how that is possible. This shows how necessary a parliamentary committee of inquiry is for the further investigation of criminal proceedings when there is at all the things on the table to which the public prosecutor refers. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] [[Abg. Head: What is this argumentation?]] What kind of argument is that? – Ask the prosecutor! If all of this were irrelevant, they wouldn't ask for the files.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17410	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[17:27:56]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17431	We are in favour of the short debate. It concerns the request of Members Werner Neubauer, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 346/A(E) concerning the anchoring of the Austrian defence function for the South Tyrol German and Ladin native language, a period of up to 22. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will be taken on the request for a time limit. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. First of all, the applicant, Mr Neubauer, receives the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17474	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! In 1919, the events of the First World War were still going on. The outcome of the war was negotiated, and the Treaty of Saint Germain decided to separate the southern part of the country for the great suffering of the Tyroleans. It was a time when this population was subjected to massive migrations. This migration, which was based on Italian fascism, had the sole goal of eliminating the population of German and Ladin's native language, and this has always been announced in political statements. The people were exposed to submission, where names were no longer valid, where names that had been renamed for thousands of years were renamed to Tolomei, freely invented, and where names of people were renamed in an illegal way. People were exposed to fascism. There has been an attempt to preserve the peculiarity of the culture with so-called catacomb schools. People like Reut-Nikolussi and Josef Noldin have made a special effort to prevent this submission. It could be prevented at the beginning. The events became familiar with the Munich-Rom Pact, which ultimately had the goal of bringing the South Tyrol question to a final clarification in the sense of the National Socialists, but also in the sense of Italian fascism. After the Second World War, the situation for the South Tyroleans was not much better. On the basis of the Gruber-De Gasperi Agreement, the then Foreign Minister for his negotiations in Innsbruck had received an earbeat from the Schüttenmajor, because he had so badly negotiated – there were massive declarations of support to the Austrian Federal Government, and 155 000 signatures testified to the unbundled will of the Tyroleans, belonging together. – This too has been ignored internationally. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a result, a last call came in 1957 at the rallying in Sigmundskron. There is a clear sign here of where the way should go, namely to self-determination on the status of autonomy. Finally, the Austrian National Council in its Foreign Policy Committee has made a unanimous declaration that it does not want to give up on South Tyrol and that an autonomous statute can ultimately only serve as a transitional solution. Others were not planned. We have now received, respectively, the then National Council President Khol in 2004 a support spectrum, where all the mayors of North and South Tyrol have signed, and since then nothing has touched on the issue of defence power function in this country. This is a breakup of all the mayors and all those who signed this petition, ladies and gentlemen. And no one in this house can understand that nothing has happened to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore propose, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, that: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called Constitutional Convention, which was set up at the time and which led the country of Tyrol to the former Federal Minister of the University of Klecatsky, has proposed in a statement that the Federal Government may include the following wording in the Preamble to the Constitution: “The Republic of Austria is committed to safeguarding and unfolding the self-determination of the Tyrolean people separated from the country of Tyrol in German and Ladin language.” This proposal by this unchallenged Democrat Klecatsky was followed by two national Council meetings. ÖVP, SPÖ and the liberals have already decided. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, last week there was a panel discussion in Vienna, in which I took part with Mr Hermann Gahr, and the people outside do not understand why, despite the statement of dispute in 1992, in which this defence function is an essential part, the realization of 17 years is waiting for it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a valid decision for five years. Why is that not realized? You can hardly explain it. I therefore urge you once again, also in the sense of what the last subcommittee on South Tyrol has shown. He replied to the question to the experts from South Tyrol, Dr. Michel Ebner, EU Member, about whether the protection function of Austria should be defined in the Constitution: South Tyrol is waiting! – The head of state of South Tyrol, Dr. Luis Durnwalder, told me on Friday in a personal conversation in Bolzano: Mr Neubauer, I would like to ask you to perhaps bring You're going through this. Do it! We're waiting. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! South Tyrol is waiting for you. Do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17572	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17593	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! It has always been important for us social democrats to deal with the Austrian People's Group in South Tyrol in peace and quiet, but with a keen eye and in a friendly neighborhood of this sensitive topic of the protection function of Austria. I think we all agree that this living model has a world-wide character and therefore is not suitable for getting into the day-to-day debate. Regardless of the anchorage in our federal constitution, the protection function is a fact and also mandatory by international law. [[Call: Is not true]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nine months ago, the resolution debated today was tabled by the FPÖ by the colleagues, and in these nine months – I know nothing and I have asked myself – there was no attempt to give this request a urgency. Why the issue should be dealt with as quickly as possible today is not really understandable. We were also in South Tyrol, we also have our contacts with Land Captain Durnwalder, and did not understand this in this hurry. The treatment of this sensitive subject must never be done under time pressure and even not on call to individuals from South Tyrol. As Austrian politicians, we are more than conscious of this responsible role towards South Tyrol and observe very closely, as in the past, developments in our neighbouring country. And even in the knowledge of the German President Heinz Fischer in Innsbruck, we have looked at all of this and observe exactly that the Tyroleans, north and south of the Brenner, stand in a peaceful and European presence with both legs. And South Tyrol will continue to be able to rely on Austria as before. We all, ladies and gentlemen, know how bitter the Treaty of Saint Germain was, and no one has forgotten the painful candles that fascism has left, in particular, in South Tyrol. But this common suffering connects, and only together is this important issue of protection to be dealt with. The House has a decision by a majority of four parliamentary parties for a possible formulation in a new Federal Constitutional Act, and we still feel bound to it, which we feel committed to. [[Call:For five years]] In due course, and in particular with the greatest possible support of our South Tyrol friends, we will deal with the question of protection function – I like it better than “protection works” – for the Austrian People’s Group in South Tyrol with all seriousness and all sense of responsibility and will work together to implement it. At the moment, we see neither a political nor a temporary incentive to act as quickly as possible. Therefore, we will not agree to this request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17640	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17661	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors from South Tyrol at the gallery! On this motion for a resolution by Mr Werner Neubauerfestival: The ÖVP has never ‘brüsk’ the theme of South Tyrol, but the ÖVP has made and requested South Tyrol policy for many years and with continuity and sustainability. After all, this petition carries the manuscript and is signed by eight ÖVP delegates and a BZÖ delegate. It is signed by many mayors and also by the Schüttenbund in South Tyrol. We stand by this petition, Mr Werner Neubauer! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Me too! I told you publicly!]] I believe we have also agreed that we want to deal with this issue together here in Parliament in the near future and, as in the past, fight with closeness and emphasis on this issue. We cannot choose everything in the South Tyrol question. There is Rome, there is Vienna, there is Innsbruck, there are Bolzano, and there is Brussels. I believe that political dialogue is still the better and the better on this issue. Dear Werner Neubauer, I don't want to narrow your merits on this question and your expertise and your background – that's not my fault at all! – but it’s just, as I mean, that we do it with political skill and wisdom. It doesn't matter. Rome is too sensitive. Mr Neubauer, we know how it stands in Rome! And you know that very well! I mean, that's why we have to deal sensitively on this issue. [[Abg. New builder: cowardice is that, cowardice!]] – I think I'm talking about cowardice... I ask the question: Why did this request become - as Mr Christ said - of 21. January 2009 to this day is not included in the Constitutional Committee, and why is it voting today with a single day? [[Abg. Neubauer: That's exactly why!]] I think Mr Neubauer, we have agreed something else. Personally, you know that. We will continue to work together here in the future. I think the FPÖ has overall – and that is also disappointing! – in the past, not always served on the topic of South Tyrol. The questions are already allowed: Why has there been an alliance with the neo-fascists in Brussels just in the last legislative period? Mr President, why have you not used your parliamentary contacts and made a media spectacle to the whole in summer? I think that this would have been better on a parliamentary basis. [[Abg. Hörl: It would have failed...!]] I invite everyone from the FPÖ: You should fight in Rome and Brussels just for South Tyrol! That would bring us further, there you are invited to cooperate, and not present here today a request that does not discuss politically... [[Abg. Neubauer: This has nothing to do with Rome! You know that!]] – We have a new composition in Parliament and a new composition in the South Tyrol Subcommittee! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: What does the defence function have to do with Rome? Explain this to us!]] We have always stood – despite the anti-wind – for the protection function for South Tyrol and have become well known to us. There's no need for any accusations here! I am very grateful that there has been a great deal of consensus and understanding here in Parliament and especially in the last subcommittee on South Tyrol where Michl Ebner really presented us with the European dimension of this question. There are 136 minorities in Europe, and 45 million people are affected. Yes, how can we solve this if we do not agree on this question? I think we can have a role model for European solutions, Mr Neubauer! That's the reason and the order for all of us. [[Abg. Neubauer:... South Tyrol!]] I believe that we should not do party politics with this South Tyrol question, but it is about taking into account what people in South Tyrol expect. As a Tyrolean and an honest friend of South Tyrol, who is committed to this matter, I am almost daily confronted with this issue. In this way, I think, we cannot succeed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will continue to fight in the future for the grace of those condemned in the absence of freedom fighters. We have a clear position in the degradation and removal of the fascist relics. We're on the Paris contract. We stand for a Tyrol of the regions. There is, I believe, a certain freedom by reducing borders, but there are still limits in language and in the legal area. There, I believe, we must put on the lever that we are creating unity in Europe. In conclusion: South Tyrol and the question of South Tyrol and the growing together of the parts of Tyrol are too important for small political money. It is always necessary and proper to work for political negotiation and to bear political responsibility. There is clearly a political goal. I am referring to my name's request: Protection function in the Constitution. We will work on it; the petition is proof of this. [[Abg. New builder:... Protection function!]] Dear colleague Werner Neubauer, bring you in, drive to Rome, drive to Brussels, fight with us together for South Tyrol! This serves South Tyrol, but not with this deadline proposal, which has been so introduced from today to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17812	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17833	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear South Tyrol friends at the gallery! [[Congratulation of the Abg. New builder.]] Today we are discussing Austria's defence function for South Tyrol. I can tell you that the autonomy statute of South Tyrol is a bill, so to speak, of the Italian state to the South Tyrol. And it's just a compromise and not a solution. As Italian policy has been in recent times, in the last few months from Rome, it seems to me very well justified to refer to Mr Gahr, here and today, and to agree to this request for a term of office. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] – Dear friend, the danger to South Tyrol also stems from Tyrolean politicians because they go here and scatter sand into the eyes of people! I'm just telling you the example with the border, where a country captain and Northern Trirole and South Tyrol politicians are going here and saying: Tirol is already ginint, there is no limit anymore! - That's total nonsense! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is true, Mr Gahr, as if two property owners who have a private reason give away the garden fence. That's why the plots are not yet united or merged. Any real estate owner can still decide on his reason. That's what she always says: Since the Brenner border is gone, the solution has been reached by far. And that's not true! Since other political movements are slowly moving up in Italy and trying to push themselves towards South Tyrol, we are now proposing this deadline. I am looking for you – I am also looking for you from the ÖVP, since you have already issued signals to agree to this – to give your vote here for this safeguarding power in the Constitution. Everything else is bad compromises. These are no reasons, Mr Hermann or ladies and gentlemen of the Socialists, to say: Let's just wait for us to be careful! – What prevents You're up to it, except for time, except tacting? So once again, ladies and gentlemen: I call on you to agree to this request here and today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17900	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17921	Mr President. High house! Mr Gahr, you said that we cannot choose what has to be done! [[Abg. Gahr: Yes, with Rome!]] - Slow down! This is not about Rome today, but it is about whether we choose to write into our constitution or not what we have taken over as a function for the South Tyroleans in international law. And we can choose that. There we can choose when we do it, whether we do it as we do it, and so on. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. New builder: That's it!]] There is no need to take account of anyone, unless you already have doubts about our defence function. [[Abg. Gahr: No!]] – Well, then nobody prevents us from doing something... – No, that’s not about a petition! [[Abg. Gahr: Mr Stadler, there's everything in the petition!]] Please, the petitions in this country; entire locks could be paved on the walls, so many petitions have already been brought in! What happened to them? And whether a chole has signed it or not, it doesn't matter either, because I've never given much to Andreas Khol's signature! [[Abg. Gahr: Oh, you!]] This is not the decisive thing, ladies and gentlemen, but the decisive thing is whether this Parliament, whether the constitutional majority, or the constitutional legislator says: Yes, we write what we have been in our constitution since the 1940s, yes or no! – We don't need to ask a Roman to do this. We can do that at any time. It is the question of whether this is so urgent. We shall now vote in favour of the deadline, for a simple reason: Because it would have happened a long time ago! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This has been discussed for a long time!]] We should not pretend to have to wait until the Constitutional Convention finally comes to a conclusion, but it is a story that has actually been indisputable in the Constitutional Convention. Therefore, this would be one thing that would be borne by broad consensus, perhaps even a few more greens would vote in favour, I don't know. The rest of this House, the vast majority of this House, is of the opinion that we should do this. And now we don't want to do what we all want to do? – This is a bit strange! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the Andreas Hoper year!]] This cannot be explained to anyone why we should not do what we all claim to want to do. Of course, I know that the South Tyroleans have not yet won a meter, but it depends on what politics then makes from how to meet Italian politics. I also share the view that nothing is as uncertain as Italian domestic policy. We agree on this, don't we? - All right. So we do not know what can happen there in a few months, when a few more porn scandals appear, who is in power then and who is then dealing with the South Tyroleans like that. There will be no one as pleasant as it may have been in the past. We can't rule it out – we don't want to hope! But the fact is, we have this protective function. And please, Mr Christ, this is a term of international law! – So, almost, you can’t exercise “power”: Well, what are you supposed to be? “Protective love”, or what should you be? “Protectors”, or what do you imagine? – In international law, certain termini apply, and what is a protection power for a minority is now quite clear in international law. And that's why the whole thing has been raised to the level of international law, and there it was very well removed and has also been a little further – but because Austria has also exercised its protective power function! So if we continue to do so, there is nothing against writing it into the Constitution. But I'm just saying: If someone believes just because we don't write it in the Constitution, we don't have the power of protection, that's wrong! We remain protective, regardless of whether this is in the federal constitution or not. But it has failed to write it into the Constitution. Only, Mr Gahr: If one rejects a request only because it comes from the FPÖ Group, then one does not honestly deal with the interests of the South Tyroleans! [[Abg. Gahr: Where is the vote?]] No, it is not about which group in the House this question comes from – the fact is that it was originally carried by all the political groups and that you are not yet being implemented to write into the Constitution what we are supposed to be all. Against this background, therefore, the deadline application is justified! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Gahr: Why was he not brought in to this day?]] - Why? He's already been brought in x-time! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He's been brought in for a long time!]] [[Abg. Gahr: In the committee!]] Mr Gahr, I am convinced that now, after my speech, you will be so quickly out there that I can only see more of your paragraphs in order to finally make the request that the Constitution be finally amended. [[Abg. Gahr: You're afraid of it!]] – No, I’m not afraid of it, I’m just expecting your crews out there so that you’ll finally make this request! I can already promise you French and free now that we will for the first time contribute our votes to the second-third majority, ladies and gentlemen, because it is overdue. And what is overdue should finally be done!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18128	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18149	South Tyrol, North Tyrol, East Tyrol – Tyrol a Landl, a Clone. – In the Kauner Valley, they say it a little harder. – That the interests of South Tyrol always deserve our full attention is, I believe, completely out of question. It can only be questionable which of these legitimate interests are and how best to serve these interests. In that respect, Mr Stadler, I am surprised that you, as a constitutional lawyer, are already announcing in advance that you agree with any constitutional addition... [[Abg. May. Stadler: The only one!]] – You would agree to this special? – Well, you see, it’s not that simple, because I would like to agree with this special one, regardless of my Preamble. This proposal, which the FPÖ has now made – and I would also like to thank you for the historical references to the dispute resolution and so on – is all, I believe, very interesting for those who do not deal with it every day, this text which you have now presented, which is not insignificantly different from that decided by the National Council three years ago and then by the Foreign Policy Committee. There it was said: The National Council supports the inclusion of a provision in the Austrian federal constitution in a constitutional reform – which was already in vogue at the time or was in the air – which strengthens the protection function – “protection function” or “protection function”, which is perhaps not really so important – for the Austrian national group in South Tyrol. That is quite another thing, Mr Stadler, I claim, as a commitment to the preservation of the further separated Tyrolean people of German and Latin. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is historically more true!]] – This is a little more than a semantic cut-off! I'm just reminding you: If 1919 had not been separated from South Tyrol and Welschtirol, Austria would have another minority in its national borders, namely the Italian-speaking minority, especially if Welschtirol had remained around Trent, but of course even if only the region of Bolzano had remained. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You've had that for hundreds of years!]] In this respect, I consider the wording for the Austrian People's Group in South Tyrol, which did not expressly mention the language barrier, language limit, language membership, a rather refined one. Maybe you'll agree with me. In addition, the motion for a resolution contained a second sentence at the time. The second sentence is: ‘The respect for the protection function of other countries for their ethnic groups living in Austria (Article 8 para. 2 B-VG) is to be incorporated into the Constitution.’ This can primarily relate only to the Slovenian-speaking minority in Carinthia. There is no mention of this in the FPÖ's request. It says only: “As well as a knowledge of the grown groups in Austria. ” But that's much weaker – don't be angry with me! – as the recognition of the protection function or defence function of Slovenia for the Slovenian-speaking Carinthians. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then make a request, and we agree!]] I think you are very different from the resolution already adopted by the National Council at the time, as far as the specific wording of the Constitution is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the Constitutional Convention!]] In this thing, I can follow what you mean. The South Tyrol autonomy statute is exemplary in various ways, but it is decades old. It is always the question in which form it should be adapted. I have to say, too, that I had the opportunity to be in Rome with President Khol, when he was still President of the National Council. Immediate occasion was a visit to the Pope; it was very interesting. Mr Molterer, I think, was there too. President Khol and I met with the Italian Minister of the Regions – if I were not wrong with La Loggia, a Sicilian, member of the Berlusconi government at that time. This meeting gave me a lot to think about. This was a very untiplomatic meeting, where La Loggia first explained: Who are you, what do you want? This is all a shame to us, namely the change in the Constitution of the Italian Republic, which was under discussion at the time, which would also mean changes to the Statute of autonomy! Khol and I – if I add modestly – have also explained to him the famous international defence function or protection function in the same way as a non-iplomatic way: Well, that's not how it is! Anyone looking at the development of the Berlusconi governments must think: Just as they rule, you have to worry from case to case to case about the development of the South Tyrolean autonomy, be legitimately concerned! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18246	The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 346/A(E) on the anchoring of the Austrian defence power function for the South Tyrol German and Ladin native language. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The request was made by 20 Members and must therefore be made. That is why we are doing so. The ballots to be used are in the shops of the Members'poules. They shall bear the name of the honourable Member and the name ‘yes’ on the grey ballots or ‘no’ on the pink-colored ballots. Only those official polls can be used. Members are called upon to put the votes in the urns provided. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the request for a deadline for Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against, 'No' vote. I now ask Mrs Schreiber, honourable Member, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf to start with the name call; Mr. Dr. Haimbuchner will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18316	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18359	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 161; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 47, No votes: 114. The application to the Constitutional Committee for reporting on application 346/A(E) shall be subject to a period of time until 22. It is therefore rejected to set up October 2009. The names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Haider, Haimbuchner, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache; Tadler Erich; Inland waterways; Vock; Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Faul, Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Ikrath; Jarmer; Chapel, chapel, Karl, Katzian, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Korun, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pilz, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schittenhelm, Schmeilenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Van der Bellen; Walser, Weninger Hannes, Windbüchler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Wurm; Zinggl. [[18:15:27]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18548	I will resume the debate on points 6 to 8 of the agenda. Mrs Tamandl has the floor. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18572	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Korun, you said before that we are not responsible for the parties, but for the Austrians. – That’s exactly what we want to confirm with this novel, because: We want to give asylum and help to people who need to be persecuted – politically, racistally, for other reasons – in Austria. But we cannot accept those who want to get asylum from us through fifty follow-up proposals that simply burden the authorities, we do not want an asylum abuse in the country! And we're going to clear this up and make it clear with this novel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, as it is, and as we have seen it again in recent weeks, but of course today – this green against blue, this left against right – I must say that of course the blues have shown again today that they do not really deal with the matter. Mr Rosenkranz spoke of immigration. In reality, however, this is an asylum law novelle that is urgently needed. These two areas are completely different, and they should also be strictly separated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] As Mr Rosenkranz said that we should close the borders: We clearly guard against that! We live in a free Europe, and we do not want dense borders! This is not at all a solution that we want to achieve in this case. [[Abg. Neubauer: Ask Mr Pröll!]] – Well, Mr Pröll wants something else, but perhaps this should be asked by Mr Grosz. I have to make this clear – Mr Pendl has said this completely right: It can't be that some federal states take over the entire work, take over the first recording centres, take over thrust centres, while other federal states simply say that we want to be postponed, but with us we must not be a push-over center, nor with us. Mr Grosz, you will have to think about it, because this can not only be concentrated on one, two or three federal states, but it must simply be divided into the whole federal territory! Yes, you have always stressed it in the Committee: There's no way in the Styria, there's no way in Leoben, there's the Saualm in Carinthia – we know all these stories anyway. [[Abg. Grosz: Why are you so turned on?]] But it simply has to be divided into the whole federal territory! [[Abg. Grosz: Why are you suddenly so turned up?]] The key points of this law are clear and clear, and they will bring about the necessary change and improvement, namely: We want to speed up asylum procedures. We do not want numerous follow-up proposals. On the criticism of territorial restrictions, Mrs Korun: I believe we can see from the latest tow history – if we pick up 64 towed Turks, Kurds with us and demand 58 asylums and then all 58 in the underground within 24 hours – that it is quite simply necessary that there be a territorial restriction and that there are also more stringent reporting obligations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Well, please!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Your stories that someone can't even go to the AKH or to a friend or to a family member or even visit a lawyer – so please, you should know better. I don't think it's about someone really going to an appointment somewhere, but it's in the concrete sense that all those who are being picked up say I was somewhere in a hospital, I was somewhere with a lawyer – but in reality they wanted to sink into the underground. And we do not want to allow that, and therefore these changes! Our Ms. Fekter, the Minister of the Interior, is in favour of all the people who are entitled to asylum. There are the procedures at first instance, which now last on average two weeks, which is also true. But all those who fall asleep in asylum shall return home and be relocated. That's what we want and that's what we're standing for.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18666	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18688	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mag. Alev Korun has stated in her speech that we are here not only for our parties but for those who have chosen us. - Yeah, that's totally right. I am a direct elected Member in the Inn district in Upper Austria, and around 28 000 Innviertlers have elected me, and many of them I know. If I told you what many of those in the matter demand and demand asylum abuse, then I would not even be protected by my immunity if I wanted to enforce it all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem of our citizens who have elected us, the problem of asylum abuse, which we are constantly getting on our own. Yes, do you think it's particularly funny to read about every third or fourth crime you're experiencing in the paper that this one has committed an asylumant, an asylum seekers? And then there is the fact that the asylum seekers have already been penalised in a reasonable manner, and then it happens that the asylum seekers have already been sentenced three or many times. Then exactly those citizens ask me: You are a Member of Parliament, what have we chosen you for, and why is there still that? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why don't you mind? – This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen! I've read quite carefully what we're supposed to decide here. It's interesting if you read between the lines or if you read the headlines. Regulatory reporting – a matter of course, one should think. Age determination in the event of alleged underage – what lies behind it, of course we know. But what comes to us that says I'm only 16, but actually he's 21, or 33? What is it that comes to us, and what will happen to us? Or: Review of the alleged relationship – what is the disappearance of our entry here? And from a certain point of time, you have to tolerate someone here, because if you send him home, he will be punished again for what he has done with us. Advanced depository stocks. – I am also slowly asking myself as a taxpayer and as one who, because of his civil profession, has to make it clear to many fellow citizens that they have to pay taxes and that, therefore, they also have to submit their calculations: Who will pay for the chastisement? – The state we send them back to, or do we pay the taxpayers? – Of course we pay it! Exhibition of an entry or residence permit. Exhibition – what do we let in there? Are we actually aware that there are safe third countries around Austria? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, who needs protection and help, who needs protection, because he is persecuted in his home country, in his home country because of his race, because of his religion, because of his political attitude, who first seeks a safe country, and around us are louder safe countries. Then why does he come to Austria? – Of course, it comes to Austria, which is 99.5 percent, because we have a secure economic system and a secure social system, and it wants to benefit from it. The way, ladies and gentlemen, which we must enforce as the rule of law, can only be: If you want to immigrate to Austria, you have an application for immigration to Austria. And on the basis of this request, one finds: But, because of his professional training, he has the opportunity to adapt to us, he has the right opportunity to continue economically here, and we can need him. That's how it must go and not: I'm hiding in Austria, and then, when I'm caught, I'm applying for asylum and then I'm staying here for as long as I'm tolerated until I can stay here until I can claim the famous right to stay. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, if Austria is a rule of law, a highly developed central European rule of law, we must also enforce our laws vis-à-vis others clearly and clearly. And this is about the enforcement of our existing laws, including those that come in and claim asylum. The following was, in conclusion, at all what my constituents have given a moral earbeat: There come 64 or 65 Turkish Kurds to Austria, and they smuggle in. In other words, they start their career with us in Austria with a violation of law by unlawfully crossing the border. Then they'll be caught. It should be thought that at the same moment they will be brought back to Turkey in the next bus of the Federal Army, accompanied by two – no, tanks are not needed – police vehicles. [[Abg. Heinzl: Tanks!]] This is quite clear, and the Turkish Government will be charged for transport, if one thinks. But what really happened? They all sought asylum, got it – and disappeared the next day. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, that's wrong!]] They've been looking for, and they've become asylum seekers. No, they didn't get asylum, but they were treated as asylum seekers. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No!]] All right, then I'm looking forward to Mrs. Minister's Enlightenment. In any case, it came out as if they were seeking asylum, and were taken to the first reception camp. Is that right? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] So what are they then? Well, it obviously doesn't understand the simple citizens. It is certain that my voters asked me: How is that possible? And the next day these Turkish Kurds were still dived. Ladies and gentlemen, there's so much going wrong here! Mrs Minister, I wish you good luck and success from Upper Austria to Upper Austria that you really get under control. Our support you have if you really do something happening and also do something where we say yes, that's it at last. But what you're presenting here, it's not, it's an eye-removing.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18791	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18813	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Weinzinger, I would now be inclined to give an answer to this, but I am not doing it, because there was so much stupidity behind it – I am apologizing for the expression “weakness” – that is, things that simply do not vote, which you put and claim in the room. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] I've already apologized, so it's done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Back to the law development. If one follows the development of the law, one can say that between the first draft and that, as he is now present, very intense negotiations with the ÖVP have always taken place in the presence of the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office. Yes, it is right, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to problems in practice that prevent the enforcement of decisions of the Federal Asylamt and the Federal Court of Justice. In accordance with the objectives set out in our government agreement, SPÖ and ÖVP, it is also our task to present a constitutional draft prepared in a legal manner to respond to these changed conditions. We have always made sure that the results were constitutional and human rights-compliant. During the negotiations, it has been shown that we do not close our eyes before the important challenges, but that it is necessary to allow co-existence on the basis of tolerance and mutual respect, and that is one of our objectives. And this can only work if I have clear rules for a good living together that apply to all. All those who find their food point here are legally staying here, should then also be given a fair chance, as a basis for good living together and for long-term peace in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: You don't care about asylum abuse?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to asylum law. Asylum is to be given to everyone and everyone who needs asylum or asylum. That's certainly where we agree. But there is also a clear commitment to this, and I also agree that the Asylum Act is not a immigration law and that labour migration is not an asylum ground either. That's what I'm standing for, also in the public. With regard to the asylum court, we pursued two essential objectives at the time. Due to the excellent work done by the employees of the asylum court, 60 percent of the old cases are – how many figures are we talking about?We are talking about approximately 24 000 old cases. – completed, and by the end of 2010, the others will also be done. The second objective we have pursued and also achieved is that asylum procedures will be much shorter than before. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who says that?]] There are still, and I would like to address these, three key points in terms of territorial limitation, where we have heard in the hearing in committee that there are very simple problems in practice. There's a problem with Mag. Brush mayr brought: A mother who is housed in Traiskirchen whose child is treated for an accident, an injury in the AKH would not even have had the opportunity to visit this child without infringing this territorial restriction. This is an example of practice, which we have also corrected with the Committee statement. Another important aspect is the amendment of § 27 NAG, where it is now no longer necessary for family members to be dependent on the first five years or the merged person in order to keep their residence permit. Women, but also men, were often forced to remain in violent relations in order not to lose their derived right of establishment and residence. It is a major improvement and prevention against violence and a good, long-standing requirement for ending violence. Furthermore, I firmly believe that we have made a further adjustment with this law. Today's novelle is certainly not the last one, but it's a law that needs to be further developed through changed conditions and therefore needs constant adaptations, as it shows in practice. Your variant, motschkern, but not a constructive proposal, but only demand: All foreigners out!, does not work and does not contribute to solutions. Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like you to carry out the promised evaluation of this law on a regular basis in relation to the practical enforcement of the rule of law. [[Abg. New builder: Your teachings don't believe a man anyway! You'll lose every choice for that!]] And the second variant: Of course, we have serious deficits, and if we could take action in parallel to make improvements, that would be very positive. A proposal would be, for example, a high-quality legal advice within 48 hours, within the thrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18904	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please. [[Abg. Mr Grosz: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Mr President! What about the “fatty ”?]] Mr Weinzinger understood that he accepted the excuse, so I took it from the body language at least. [[Abg. Grosz: We have to see that the rules of the house are always observed!]] That's it. I call Mr Grosz.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18954	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I really don't know why we need to discuss this for so long, apparently people with logical sense. Of course, the concern must be that immigrants who come to this country, that immigrants who behave decently, that immigrants who are law-reliable, that immigrants who integrate socially and socially, also find a place here. We do not need to discuss this either. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter:... Migration?]] We've proposed a green card model. I do not know, Mrs Federal Minister, that we have been discussing each other so many times, and slowly I am really inclined to go to the Rabenhof to go to your double, because apparently I find more understanding there than when I discuss with you every time. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The fact that people are to be respected and our protection must also be preserved, citizens who come to us, who act law-reliance, integrate themselves, are free of punishment, is completely out of dispute. What I criticise so much in your novel, what we are criticising as BZÖ, where we are not alone, if I can follow the words of Mr Pröll and Mr Niessl, is that in Austria we have a huge problem with asylum seekers who are slipping into crime. Mrs. Federal Minister, there are figures from last year – these figures were already terrifyingly high at the time, but are even more terrifying this year – after that, on 1 January. January 2008 17 400 asylum seekers were in basic care and 9 800 of them were punishable. What we demand of you is – that does not tell me ideology, neither right nor left, but simply the logical sense of the house –: Wheat separate from Spreu, simply also those who do not want to comply with our rules, our way of living together, our laws. Here I find again provisions in your asylum law, in your alien law, which you present to us today: Yeah, he's got to be fined twice, at the district court and, and, and, maybe, he must have broken in twice, the shot's still free the first time, we'll pardon it. – And we don't want to! You know it very well: Case Torosian in Hohenberg. It started with two stolen rubber boots and ended with a document forgery and several car breaks. A total of seven, eight crimes have been committed within six years, but the state has done nothing. And that is what we criticize, even in the foreign law, that this unsitting is simply not met. There is the displeasure of all, even that of the people, if we seem to continue to maintain an asylum right in Austria or, not to say, to maintain a border, which is more lucker than any Emmentaler – in a good Steirisch way. This can be seen when we have to read in the newspapers that 64 Kurds have been stopped on the South motorway after they have been dragged over Slovenia, and that these 64 Kurds, after being detained and applying for asylum rights, have been submerged. In the meantime, we insist that in the month after month there are 200 people alone from the institution in Traiskirchen, 200 who are so lost to us, 200 who are so sending into the European Union. Mrs Tamandl, who, by the way, is no longer here now, has spoken a lot and then has gone out of the glass door! What Pröll wants, what we want, what we want for half a year, is an enhanced border protection, are reinforced border controls. That is why I would like to make one more request from Members of the Westenthal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is what we want, Mrs. Federal Minister. Whatever we want, of course, is that criminal asylum seekers in our country are being fought hard, that we do not allow ourselves to simply start to trade crime cases, as has been the case over the past few years. No, it's not that bad anyway, she just got a bottle of wine over the skull, the 86-year-old woman. That's not a criminal case! He just stole his handbag, as we see in the living example. It's not a problem. That's what we're looking at. We now also live in Austria at a time when crimes and criminal cases are being baggagelled, because we apparently see them ideologically, if I can follow Mrs Korun, who is still here today. Crimes committed by foreigners are crimes that have occurred in distress. Crimes that happen every day here in Austria seem to be due to the death penalty if you feel it is, Mrs. Korun. They're blind on an eye. This is your problem, that you bring an ideologisation into a profoundly factual foreign-right debate that we want to lead here. We want from you, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you conduct criminal asylum seekers, that you stop crime in this country, but do not want you to transfer the city police command Graz to the periphery as it has become known today, even the Styrian country day has made a corresponding decision, especially since we already have 70 crimes a day in Graz, and we need every man in the city. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Federal Minister, coming to the end because you are now apparently trying to play Pröll, Styria, Carinthia, Semmering, before Semmering, after change, and I do not know what else is going to happen to you; you have to share it now: All of our requests here in this House on the subject of push-over centre and asylum centre were factual and professionally argumentable. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] You can't go beyond that either, Mrs. Federal Minister! That's where you can whisper into my "grace," whatever you want, as an aunt. You won't get me out of peace either. We have argued objectively that 68 kilometres from Leoben to Graz-Thalerhof are too far to an airport for a hub! We have argued that 140 kilometers to Graz-Thhalerhof Airport are too far! Then stop the track with me once, that you believe us that this is too far, that the logistical is a very bad place for your project of a thrusting center! [[The speaker spoke with a very loud voice until the end of his speech.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Don't cry like that!]] We have now told you for the hundredth time in this house that there is no point in a thrusting center in a residential area! [[Abg. Amon: A different tone!]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We've told you for the hundredth time that people there are afraid! All the parties of the city council of Leoben have resisted it. Mr Petzner, ladies and gentlemen from Carinthia, told you for the hundredth time that an asylum reception centre in Carinthia makes little sense, especially since the asylum movement presented by you does not cross the Karawanken, Mrs Federal Minister! – I am slowly doubting the reason for finding a spark of logical house understanding in your policy! [[Abg. Amon: You belong to the Burgtheater! Incredible!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Lauter! I know it's her last wish.]] I don't know how often we have to explain it to you! If you are experts, look for suitable alternatives and locations, then you will also experience our applause – otherwise the laughter of most of the Austrian population, which you would prefer to see somewhere else, just no longer in your ministry, dear Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19127	Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19148	Mr President. Mrs. Minister of Justice! High house! If the Greens complain from the left, everything would be too restrictive and too strict, and FPÖ and BZÖ complain that it is all too little strict, then I know we are on the right path: [[Abg. Petzner: We already know that, this quote!]] It is balanced, rule of law and in the sense of security in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong speech! That's what you said last time!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Since January, the Austrian asylum authorities have done 16 percent of the asylum procedures positively. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Make your recording center in your gravel pit!]] In the rest – and these are more than 12 100 cases – there were no asylum grounds at all. 1 169 new asylum applications were rejected at this time. They were not allowed as follow-up requests. Since the beginning of the year, more than 1 178 people have been transferred to another EU country because Austria is not responsible for the procedure. For example, when we come to Poland from the Russian Federation of Chechen, they must be brought back to Poland and wait for their asylum procedure in Poland. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, these figures impressively show that the vast majority of procedures we are dealing with are made for people who cannot stay here. It is therefore necessary to make these procedures faster and more efficient. The fact is that our financial capacities are significantly affected by asylum abuse. Wrong information on identity, false information about the country of origin, just to avoid being sent back, incorrect information about age, in order to get into the privileges of minor care, incorrect information regarding the overall situation is abuse and therefore to be discontinued! In the same way, deliberate follow-up requests are to be made to prevent the deportation after the asylum procedure has already been legally decided by all authorities. Such follow-up proposals should no longer prevent deportation in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For the Protocol: Moderate applause! Scratch of applause!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we must close the back door for tow and criminals so that we can keep the front door open for persecuted and threatened refugees. You all know my goal: To make Austria the safest country in the world with the highest quality of life. [[Abg. Grosz: I want to win at Lotto today! I've filled in five extra lottery tickets!]] However, towing, the misuse of asylum and crime are obstacles in this way, and we are discussing an orderly foreign right today. With an orderly Foreign law we shape security, and by far it is not just a security issue. The rules on asylum and xenophobia are particularly sensitive. They concern human fates. Persecution, mutilation and murder, before which people in other countries flee, is hardly imaginable for us in Austria. That's why we're going to take up these persecuted ones. This issue requires a high level of responsibility on the part of this Parliament and the Austrian Federal Government – therefore, an orderly foreign right, which is humane and fair. Political populism, Mr Westenthaler, on the back of the persecuted is repugnant! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is exactly the same speech as last time! Don't you even have a new speech for us? You always say the same thing!]] But I say quite consciously, we support the persecuted, but we fight asylum abuse; in particular, we do not want to be regarded as an attractive market for towing. My key points in this law, which I hope you, ladies and gentlemen, will adopt today by a very large majority. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't look that way!]] Those who seek protection with us and have been shown to be persecuted receive this protection. If you want to work with us, you have to take care of a work permit under the Foreign Employment Act. This has nothing to do with asylum. All those who say asylum only for economic reasons will not receive a positive asylum notice. The asylum seekers, on the other hand, must take part in making rapid decisions so that they do not unjustly delay, delay or withdraw the asylum procedure. Therefore, reporting obligations and obligations of participation, and whoever violates his duties, he provides a motivating reason. The trick of always making new, willful applications for asylum in order to avoid deportation must also be stopped. No one can escape the implementation of Austrian laws, and it is our task to make the implementation effective. Those who have negative asylum decisions in their hands and have completed a positive expulsion procedure must expect to be brought back to their country of origin. A follow-up request can also be decided in the future despite the deportation, because these persons have already received a legal procedure in the field of asylum by all authorities. It is therefore not justified that follow-up applications prevent deportation. Special protection is needed for minor refugees. It is not justified, however, that more and more people give us false information about their age. Especially the case of the Indian, who died in debt, has shown: He applied for asylum and claimed to be 17 years old. The experts have also confirmed this to him. – It turned out that he was 33 years old. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What are these?]] In order to have security in the future, there is also the possibility to make an age determination by hand root rinks. The expert at the hearing has explained to us what load such an X-ray represents: in about the same load as when you walk for a quarter of an hour in the fresh air. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is reasonable for a secure age fixation! And if the person refuses to have such an investigation, he will have his good reasons, but that will then be included in the evidence. It is similar in the case of incorrect data on family relations. In the case of unsecured documents, false identifications and no evidence of real family property, there is the possibility of DNA analysis. There too: If the person refuses a DNA analysis, this will be included in the evidence and he will not be able to use the benefits of family privileges – if no other evidence exists. Furthermore, the criminals who are under the protection of asylum law are being tried. Those who seek protection under our legal order must also comply with this rule of law! That is why we will re-examine the grounds for asylum among those who have already received asylum, but who will live out their criminal energy with us – and, if they are no longer given, we will recognise them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the repeat case!]] At the same time, we will launch accelerated procedures for those who exercise their criminal energy during their proceedings, so that asylum procedures are handled simultaneously with judicial criminal proceedings. In the asylum procedure, it does not judge guilt or innocence, but it is justified that both procedures are dealt with in parallel and, if he is guilty and the asylum procedure is negative, this criminal must return to his country of origin. We must put out three principles, ladies and gentlemen, and I assume that there is a great consensus here in the House. First: The right to asylum is untouchable. Secondly, We need to fight effectively against asylum abuse. And thirdly, The laws which the High House decides here must also be implemented! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: No after! You don't have to emphasize that!]] If you can't stay here and have to go back to your country of origin! [[Abg. Kickl: The Zogaj Principle!]] Austria has a great humanitarian responsibility, and I will always do so. This orderly right of foreigners now offers us the opportunity not to affect the protection of the persecuted, but to be able to implement the right of foreigners more efficiently and not to allow deportations to be avoided in the future. This guarantees security in Austria and makes the market for trafficking in human beings and towing unattractive. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking for you, especially the parties to the opposition, to make your contribution today, because only an orderly foreign right makes Austria safer! And if you decide to do so, it is an incentive for abuse and tow!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19351	The motions for resolutions previously tabled by Mr Grosz are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19431	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19454	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I really have to say what some Members here are allowed to do to our minister is a scandal! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After what?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And not only here, but also in the committee. That's almost bound up with personal persecution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What?]] No, that's true! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're not from this planet either!]] With this new law we create one: We close the back door for tugs and criminals and leave the front door open for the threatened. Austria was always an asylum country. We grant asylum to all those who need it, but we stop the abuse. There are clear rules that ensure the right and order reliably. And with this law novel, we get a humane, just and, from my point of view, efficient law. Let me now turn to Mr Grosz, who is now no longer here, or should I say Mini?; I don't know. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're last-class, the bottom of the last!]] What Mr Grosz is doing in Styria is: Mr Grosz assures the people that he is misinformed by the people. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They rain on because of personal illiteracy – and evaporate themselves!]] Whenever it comes to the hub in Leoben, Parliament Grosz informs the people there that they believe that the offenders could move freely there. But You know exactly, that's just not true! [[Abg. Singer: Can you do it?]] Especially in Leoben, we have one of the most modern prisons, and next to that, we will have the thrusting center. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true!]] And the asylum seekers can't move freely! [[Abg. Singer: Of course!]] And what the distance to Graz is, one more word. The motorway connection from Graz to Leoben is being expanded, which is soon finished. And what do you think you're going from Graz to Leoben-Lerchenfeld? – One hour five minutes – now!; then not for so long. What do you appreciate, how long do you drive, should this be built in Vorderenberg? And Vorderenberg wishes for this pushing center! There are no more than two objections from the circle of all parish dwellers, because the front miners want to have the center, because they have no jobs. [[Abg. Grosz: Only the councillor – the people not!]] This is the municipality in Austria, which has most of the deportations, and which would be happy, they would have 160 more jobs. They want that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Mr. Zanger, you know yourself: What do you think you're going from Vorderenberg to Graz-Thalerhof? What do you think? One hour five minutes after Leoben. What do you think? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] I promised myself: After Leoben it's 55 minutes, and to Vorsenberg it's an hour five minutes. So ten minutes more, that's ridiculous! If we had the thrusting center here today – that might be good for you to be in there once – if we were to drive there to Schwechat, we would be on our way longer because if we were in traffic jams, we would need much longer. [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you talking about? That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Do you want to get Parliament pushed? This was the last time Mr. Dollfuss did this!]] [[Further intense calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Again: I am very glad that we are deciding on this new law today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Stop! Get down! The Members would like to put us all in jail! That's scandalous!]] [[Further persistent violent calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] For me, proof of identity is important, for me proof of age, and it is essential for me that it is not as easy then to make follow-up requests as many asylum seekers are currently making. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19686	On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19721	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to point out to my Group that I strongly condemn and reject the last comments made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It cannot be assumed that it is here that it is evading members of the National Council, in a way that I have rarely heard of it, and that the people who serve the country here within it wish to serve in the ports. Mr President, don't be angry with me, but I expect you to take more decisive action here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19753	Mr President, I was unable to see the end of the colleague's speech because of the many interlocutory calls. However, I will ask colleagues from the Stenografenburo to give me a written statement of this passage quickly. [[Abg. Grosz: Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Grosz on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19788	Mr President. I note on behalf of my group that a border crossing has just happened here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call at BZÖ: That's not funny!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of SPÖ and ÖVP) You find this also funny! She wants to lock everyone else up, and you'll find that funny!]] One can discuss controversially in this House, find sceptical words, which then find the Bureau's appreciation, but in this House it must not happen that mandates are at the Republic's mouth and de facto demand that representatives of the Republic be taken into custody. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the case of a Member of this House, the Members of this House, elected representatives of this House, strongly recommend that: That would do you good!, I have to say: These are words that have probably fallen in this House 70 years ago when we wanted to lock up Members to abolish democracy, remove parliamentarianism and introduce a state-of-the-art state. Mr President, I am looking for It is very urgent to have a special appreciation and to discuss such a behaviour once in a presidential term.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19868	On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19894	Mr President. First of all, I am grateful for the fact that you have already arranged for the protocol to be recovered, because, as Mr Grosz is, the statement was expressly not. [[Abg. New builder: Don't talk about this now!]] Secondly, those who have acted in an incredible way here with sluggish irades from the speaker's pulp are not supposed to be particularly sensitive.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19938	I can once again ask colleagues from the Stenografenburo... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of ÖVP) That's incredible: it defiles the names and body status of Members!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler, do we need some time to end this? - Please. On the Rules of Procedure: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19984	Mr President. I expressly welcome your position on drawing up the Minutes and ask you to read the exact text and then make the decision. However, I would also like to ask you to read the calls made by the BZÖ in the speech of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, for I dare to say that if the Minister of Foreign Affairs were a Minister of the Federal Government, there would be no such number of expressions in the calls.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20020	Since the Stenographical Protocol usually also includes intermediate calls, we will be able to illuminate both sides. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should have listened! The President should also listen when one speaks of the speaker's vote!]] Mr Scheibner, was that addressed to me? [[Abg. Scheibner: Speaking generally in the room!]] I wanted to say, too. But you know exactly when you're spreading big noise, there's absolutely nothing to understand here, so we need the Stenographical Protocol. This procedure is inconsistency. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20070	Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised how sensitive Mr Grosz reacts if someone – whether it was said or not – wishes him to be pushed. They stand out constantly and wish any people who have not been blamed! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Criminals!]] No, not just criminals, but in general. They want the extension of the motivating grounds for the unpunished. There you are totally insensitive. But if you do, you will be sensitive because you are a Member of this Republic. [[Abg. Scheibner: Superinstructor!]] Turn at your own door and moderate yourself in your words! This is my appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 11.5 million people worldwide are on the run. War, deportation, rape: These are their fates! Here Members who have been shown to have fallen on the butter side of life sit in their upholstered chairs and discuss asylum law as if there were only abuse and crime. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Weinzinger came to the speaker's desk and said that he picked up the paper and realized that it was behind every third, fourth, criminal case an asylum-seekers. I hope that he will build his other political analyses on a more solid foundation, because the figures he mentioned have nothing to do with reality. If you look at your own inquiries, you'll see the real numbers! But I can hardly blame Mr Weinzinger for the fact that the Minister of the Interior is constantly proposing changes without knowing the facts. On the problem of follow-up applications – under quotation marks –: First: Have until recently She's not even caught, Mrs. Inner Minister, how many follow-up requests there are. Even today, it is only very modest, because you cover only the negatively determined follow-up requests, but not the positive ones. That's the number that has no power to make a statement. Secondly, To date, you cannot tell us how many asylum seekers have been legally condemned. That is the crucial number for this debate, but it is not raised. But you are constantly talking about asylum in connection with crime. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone really believe here that this asylum law novelle in Austria brings more security? – Those who want to organise burglary crime will also do so in accordance with this asylum law novelle. It won't change anything. You can tighten up as much as you want, people dealers will not be deterred from it. If you want to fight crime, such as burglary thefts, it is not an asylum policy but a criminal policy. Only: If we did criminal policy, we would be very quick in the Ministry of the Interior and in your errors, Mrs. Federal Minister – but you do not want to – and then we would be very quick at the Strassian police reform, which is the real cause of the rise in the number of burglaries. They will intensify asylum law, but they will not solve any problem. Crime figures will continue to rise, and legal parties will demand further aggravation in half a year, but nothing will change. The only thing you achieve with this asylum law novel is that those who seek asylum or believe with good reason that they can get asylum are damaged in their rights. If we are constantly saying that those who are persecuted would continue to be asylumable and not affected, I must say: That's just not true! Restriction of freedom of movement also applies to completely unspoiled asylum seekers. Expanding the grounds for thrust also applies to completely unspoiled asylum seekers. The time limits for appeal are reduced; this also applies to completely undisputed asylum seekers. Follow-up requests are made more difficult; this also applies to completely unspoiled asylum seekers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Especially in the follow-up applications, which are put as flat-rate as abuse, one should look at why it comes to the same. We are right to debate here in Parliament on the extension of limitation periods in the event of rape, for good reason: Because rape victims are traumatized and often only years later can talk about the act. It is no different for refugees who have bad fates behind them: physical violence, torture, abuse, rape. They are also traumatized, and this is the reason why there are follow-up requests: because sometimes in a first request refugees are not able to mention everything in terms of their reasons for fleeing. The FPÖ has reached its destination. Her goal was always clear: Asylum law is to be discredited. The message is clear: The asylum seekers are criminal. But where do ÖVP and SPÖ want to go? How far are you going? Where are your limits? You have to please these questions today, because I do not see an end to the debate. I'm convinced you'll be back in half a year with an asylum law novelle. Where's the end? Where are your human rights standards? I don't see them, ladies and gentlemen, and that's just scaring me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20147	The next item is the speech by Mr Heinzl. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20168	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Tolerance and mutual respect – and that is why, Mr Grosz, I am not telling you what I am thinking of now, because we are talking about mutual respect and tolerance – are the basis for a good living together. [[Abg. Grosz: Me neither! Be glad!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Since when do you think?]] However, this requires binding rules for all – including you, Mr Grosz. We Social Democrats want to secure social peace in Austria through clear regulations and fair opportunities in the long term. The basis of our social rules are, as I believe, our constitution, democracy and freedom of expression. Equal rights of women and men, compliance with our laws: These are values that are not negotiable for us, and those who do not stick to them have lost nothing in Austria. Our clear objective is to speed up asylum procedures. It is equally important for the asylum seekers as well as for the state to know quickly whether asylum is granted or not. And if an asylum seekers is considered such in the sense of the Geneva Convention, it will receive protection and assistance in Austria – and this has already been emphasized several times today and by many speakers. If that is not the case, then it is the stated goal to find fast and clean solutions for returning home. If it is finally clarified in a procedure that migrants are not allowed to remain in Austria, the deportation must not fail in bureaucratic shortcomings or in lack of readmission agreements with the countries of origin. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The flood of follow-up applications has to be halted; this has already been repeated several times today and, as I mean, correctly emphasized. Clear rules and fair opportunities must be achieved to secure and strengthen the conditions for long-term social peace in Austria, and I therefore welcome the new asylum law.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20218	The next item is the speech by Mr Herbert. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20239	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First, allow me a little replica on the comments of Mr Lueger: In fact, if you here regard the speech made by Mr Weinzinger as insanity from this speaker's point of view, this is not only evidence of democratic deficits but is simply unworthy of this House as well. [[Abg. Schönpass: She apologized!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Even if you try afterwards to steal yourself out of your responsibility with a silent excuse, I tell you: It's unworthy of this house! Mr Weinzinger did not deserve to be treated by you in this way. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] Now to the Foreign Rights Change Act. I must say that the high expectations that existed in the run-up to the legal provisions of this government template, whether from the people or from the executive side: Traiskirchen, with the most recently colported incidents there in the field of foreign and asylum, was once again not met. The people wish themselves – and this has clearly worked out Mr Weinzinger – really fast procedures and rigorous enforcement of the deportations of foreigners who are unjustly residing in our federal territory. But if you look at what has come out of this government template, you can see: This is actually not what we have expected, and actually only a multiple of complicated and difficult-to-understand legal provisions with little political far-sightedness and limited powers for the executive. Examples of this are piled up. I'm thinking about the DNA check in case of claimed relationship. Unlike the FPÖs, it is now only a possibility and therefore not an effective measure to stop abuse in this matter in fact and in a sustainable manner. Also, the provisions in the case of alleged minority, which do not include enforcement of force majeure for the purpose of radiological investigations, and the fact that tow and aid for unauthorised stay in the federal territory are only punishable in the sense of administrative infringements, and therefore, in fact, I say salopp, are equivalent to the offence of false parking, in this country someone who deals with it will hardly understand. All in all, then, this is an impracticable and inefficient legal regulation. But this has to be done – and this is actually crucial to me as an active police officer, whom I am still in my service – once again not you, Mrs. Minister, not the head of the section, not the head of the department in your ministry, so that the police and the small officials and administrative staff in the specialist departments and specialist staff who are to work with this law in the future. Once again, they have been abandoned on the issue of the actual implementation of your legal order and may also have to face the criticism of the people in the future and perhaps also the accusation that they would not comply with their obligations, rightly demanded by the population, to the service enforcement of the foreign law and to the handling of the asylum and xenophobia laws to the extent desired or expected by the population. I notice: Therefore, such an inadequate government template cannot be accepted, at least not by my group, because once again it was rejected by you, Mrs Federal Minister, but also by the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ, who have given their assent to this proposal for a law in the committee and thus have made it possible to implement it in fact, to ensure that the police receive the necessary framework conditions for the implementation of their security police tasks to a sufficient extent and that our people will be truly and truly protected from unbridled abuse of asylum and from the permanent disregard of the rules of foreign law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20307	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Kapeller. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20328	Mr President. Ladies ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With a recognition rate of currently 16 percent for asylum seekers, we assume that the Bundesasylamt and the other services do excellent work. But this figure also means that 84 percent of asylum seekers do not fit or belong to the asylum rail, otherwise their applications would not be negatively decided by officials who handle asylum applications in a serious manner and in compliance with the legal provisions. If the requests of 84 percent of the asylum seekers who are entering, entering or fleeing Austria are rejected, then we need action, then the current law – it seems – is not the right instrument for this. That Austria, on the other hand, is, of course, a preferred and attractive country of asylum, because of its geographical situation and its prosperity, everyone knows, knows, those who come to Austria as economic refugees or for other reasons. But I would like to say again: A 16 percent recognition rate proves that those who really have to get asylum because they are persecuted in their home countries for a variety of reasons also receive asylum from us, let them increase their aid, and also put in place appropriate integration measures for them. However, we have the duty to provide Austrians with protection if we want to carry out policy responsibly, and that means that we have to halt asylum abuse, and we can only rescind asylum abuse by streamlining the law on foreign law accordingly. A few statements have been made here today, to which I have to say: Of course, there are still many asylum seekers who are being dragged away, who are fleeing here or who come to Austria as elsewhere, but in the pre-Schengen period – and this must be clear to us – the borders were closed, there were border controls, but then, already before 1989 and in the 1990s, much more asylum seekers came to Austria than it is now. Therefore, the closure of the borders demanded by the BZÖ and also by the FPÖ is not an adequate means to prevent asylum abuse if there were already many asylum seekers or even more than today in Austria before Schengen. That's why we need intensifications in the law. The world will also change in the future. I mean, it's legitimate for you to react to the circumstances again. Yes, I trust to say this: It may also be that we will have to make another change in the field of foreign law over the next few years, because the novelle has not yet been far enough. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Yes, exactly!]] But one thing is clear to me in this discussion, dear friend and colleague, also: What we are now going to decide is in the golden middle, because the Greens are far too far away, who really want to have everyone inside, open the borders for everyone, whether criminals or non-criminals, and the BZÖ and the FPÖ are too far away. That is why it is once again the golden middle way, and that is what characterizes such large national parties as the ÖVP is one. – This also means the election victories, as we were allowed to celebrate one in Upper Austria three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20365	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20386	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kapeller has shown that there are still speakers in the ÖVP, who can give their speech to members of the opposition without intervening. [[Abg. Hear: Go, go, go, go!]] [[Abg. Amon: There is a wealth of speakers who can do that!]] . Now you don't like it if you praise your Members accordingly? He has rightly pointed out one thing, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Greens – because you always pretend that we would criminalise all asylum seekers, although everyone, at least most of them, was nevertheless righteous and genuinely persecuted and here in Austria only want the best: Just look at the numbers! 16 percent recognition. – Getting Now They say, again, that there is no recognition of a wide variety of asylum seekers. – Well, it's supposed to be 20 percent who really need asylum, then 80 percent of the asylum seekers who come to Austria are on their way: These have misused this important right. Mr Steinhauser, you must at last admit from your side that this abuse has to be stopped! 16 per cent of rightful asylum seekers; 84 percent who abuse the system. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] The refugee organisations too must finally be made clear that they have to represent the real refugees, and they represent them if they show the people they see here, they are misused, they show the doors, and they do not give a hint of how they can stay in Austria for another year with the fifth request! [[BZÖ and Abg. Kickl.]] Only, Mr Kapeller, in one, of course, you are not right in that case: There's no golden middle! One cannot say, in these measures, that it is a question of getting right, helping the right to break through and enforce it, that one goes the way of the golden middle, going between what the Greens want, and what FPÖ and BZÖ want, one goes through in the middle. [[Abg. Amon: No, no!]] Mr Kapeller! There is no golden middle in the decision between right and wrong, but one can only stand 100 percent on the side of the right, and therefore there must be clear rules! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] That is why we are also opposed to the fact that, when it comes to deportation, a free letter is issued, Mr. Col., that criminal asylum seekers lose the right to an asylum procedure only in the second crime – in the event of theft, in the event of need, in the event of physical injury – no! We know it from the real asylum seekers: They are happy that they are here, trying to involve themselves accordingly, and they are also trying to participate in the identification of their identity. Whoever doesn't do that – at the first offence! . whoever does not participate in criminal proceedings, has the right to hospitality, he has the right to an asylum procedure and has to be postponed. That would be a hundred percent on the side of the legal system. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You can see it from the examples, ladies and gentlemen: I've been talking to the Kurds this morning. How's that? – They come in here, they are dragged, and it is obvious that something is wrong. They come to Traiskirchen like any righteous asylum seekers, and they're surprised that they're disappearing. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Inlander and Mayerhofer.]] And why do they disappear? - You don't know each other! You want to believe that there is no right thing to do. It is precisely such conditions that invite us! The tractor organizations know this very well, they are looking at exactly what country there are which rules. And if Austria invites itself, the tractor organizations will also bring the refugees to Austria. If, in the course of the reporting, the commander of the refugee camp says that this is actually nothing new, because 200 asylum seekers per month are hiding in Traiskirchen, and if you know that the proof is 700 to 800 people, then that means you have a turnover every four months: Every four months the camp is empty, there are all gone, underground! There is no way to say that you are trying to go a golden middle path, but there are measures to be taken! [[Abg. Where are these measures put in place?]] Ladies and gentlemen, they say people have done nothing, they can't be held, but I'll tell you the following: Every Austrian citizen who takes up his basic military service at the age of 18 or 19 – and don't say that this is a bad comparison! – is stopped for a few days and must not leave the barracks because you only see how reliable it is: Is he coming back at midnight, if he's a whipstick? Since, in the case of Austrian citizens, there is suddenly no right to free movement, but with the asylumant, it is of course unreasonable to say that one keeps him in a reception centre until the first examination of his identity and the circumstances why he came here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger]] – That would be a reasonable solution, Madam Minister for the Interior, Mrs Minister for Justice! – Make it possible for the asylum seekers from the right to be treated at least with our basic military servants! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] That's the problem! The topic of traumatisation has been addressed that asylum seekers would not be able to address their reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] – Da- zu: If you manage to make yourself on a way of many thousand kilometers to come to Austria, you will also be able to explain your reasons for this flight. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on the third state clause: If we were to implement these consistently – not on a medium-sized route, Mr. Cot, but consistently – then there would be only a few dozen asylum seekers we would have to care for, namely those who are being attacked at Schwechat, Graz or Linz airport or at other international airports and perhaps at a Danube port, because everyone else – on the land road – come from a safe third country and would have waited for their asylum proceedings in that third country. We just want these legal provisions to be implemented, then we already have a few problems less.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20538	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking as the next speaker. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20559	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We too believe that criminality is to be suspected – this applies to foreigners and foreigners. We also believe that illegal asylum applications should be rejected - even there is certainly one opinion - but we do not agree with some speakers that all asylum seekers are generally criminal, and we stand for fair proceedings, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's only 86 percent...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I mean, that's exactly the difference: In access and also – I would also like to stress this – in the discussion culture. For us, the right of asylum is a human right, and this should also be undisputed in this House, with regard to all the problems that exist in this area. [[Abg. Kickl: That doesn't mean it's a human being! Who fought that?]] We are aware of our responsibilities in our speeches and in our access to the problem, Mr Kickl. Polemics is of no use, and no one benefits from flat-rate criminalisation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who questioned this?]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Who questions this?]] Screaming, Mr Grosz – I mean, not now, but before, with Mrs Minister – does not use anything at all, for who yells is wrong. That's a winged word. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In my opinion, the lashing of fears, honourable Members and colleagues of the Free and BZÖ, only leads to a real threat to social peace in our country, and also to the fact that asylum is only or only discussed among the aspects of abuse, crime, asylum fraud and abuse. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Who is agitating fears?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Only facts are presented!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not the only way, because I am convinced that many Austrians are quite willing to protect people who are persecuted in their home countries in Austria, but they expect – and rightly so – that asylum law is not claimed unlawfully. It is therefore the task of policy to respect and safeguard human rights, to ensure fair and rapid, rule-of-law procedures, but also to ensure that completed procedures are implemented: constitutional, rule-of-law, human rights, but consistent! [[Abg. Kickl: So far the theory!]] I am convinced that the current asylum and foreign law novelle is being done exactly as a result. The Asylum Court has already accelerated the procedures for people, Mrs Korun, above all rapid legal certainty, including for themselves. The amendment now before us re-examines follow-up requests, which we have already heard today, and the determination of age, the enlargements of the suppressive stocks and the handling of criminal asylum seekers are being re-regulated. – The fact that the Greens on the one hand are too far off, however, that colleagues from the BZÖ and the Freeman are far too sharp, as we have already heard today, shows me that we are taking the right path. We from the SPÖ make it clear that the Asylum Act is by no means a immigration law. Nor do we assume that asylum seekers are generally abused, but we are clear that there are rules that must be complied with, and that their non-compliance can be expected to lead to consequences. We do not, however, assume that the authorities are generally working against the interests of asylum seekers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The SPÖ clearly applies to us: Clear rules, fair opportunities! I am therefore glad that further changes have been made in the review process. At the end there is now a constitutional, rule-lawless law. It is now up to you to improve the performance and also to ensure that Mrs. Minister – and there you too are called upon – to improve the conditions in force. That's what Minister Prokop promised at the time. I think we are also required, because “clear rules, fair opportunities!” is also true in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20715	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20737	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Violence is violence, a criminal act is always a criminal act and should also be prosecuted and polemics is always polemics. – Mr Kapeller, Mr Grosz and Mr Scheibner, for: [[Abg. Kickl: Polemish are always the others!]] [[Abg. Grosz: And in the blue there is no one,...?]] [[Abg. Scheibner:..., when I become polemic!]] If a negative notice is issued, this does not mean that the relevant law has been misused, but that an application made with best knowledge and conscience has been negatively adopted. This can be the same in building law and in other legal areas. You say a negative notice means automatic abuse. We say quite clearly: No, it's not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Chapel: The quota means “in the last instance! ”]] It has already been claimed today that it is not a fight against green or green against blue. On the contrary: It's the fight green against the government! And we will certainly not tire of continuing this fight and simply act argumentatively against the Minister of the Interior, namely for human rights, for respect of fundamental rights and for personal integrity in this country. [[Abg. Kickl: She's been blaming it like that anyway!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Minister of the Interior is completely...!]] For the purposes of determining the age: In addition to dental and physical examinations, there will now also be X-ray examinations. There have been enough discussions on radiation exposure and also on the error rate in advance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] The fact is, there is no one hundred percent method of determining age, except – the minister has said today – the obduction. However, I do not assume that in the next novel, the obsession will be part of the legal provisions, not at all. [[Abg. Hornek:... polemish!]] [[Abg. Kößl: Did you talk about polemics earlier?]] What has been completely forgotten in the discussion on X-rays is one thing: It is fact that according to Austrian radiation protection law ionizing radiation, i.e. X-ray radiation, is exclusively – exclusively! – may be used for medical purposes. And I'm sure we're all here d'accord that age is not a medical purpose, and we're d'accord that X-rays do not serve any medical purpose for the determination of age. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] [[Abg. Grosz:... all no culture of conversation! Let them talk out!]] [[Abg. Excuse me!]] This means that the law forces the intervention into the physical and personal integrity, that this law allows the intervention into the fundamental rights of the people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] There I am not at all with my SPÖ collegiates Lueger and Pendl, who believe that the fundamental rights are preserved here. Not at all, because what does that mean in practice? – There is an obligation to prove minority, and there is an X-ray examination, which, from the discussion on fundamental rights, is a can-determination which cannot necessarily be enforced. [[Abg. Riepl: Just now!]] If, now, a minor protection seeker, a affected person, takes the right to say no to X-ray radiation, then this becomes a disadvantage in his procedure. It can't be! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] [[Abg. Grosz: And if he has a broken tooth, can't he?]] The discrepancy is clear: The medical side says No, the fundamental legal side also says no – and the safeguarding of personal rights is not dependent on the Federal Government or on the Minister of the Interior, but it is the duty of the Federal Government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: And if he's not even underage?]] Every Member who agrees to this proposal for a law must be aware of one thing: They take responsibility here for mixing political individual areas, mixing asylum policy, integration policy, security policy and crime policy. This has already turned out quite clearly today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] They assume responsibility for shortening the time limits for complaints to be extended, for longer procedures, for higher costs, for greater legal uncertainty, for the removal of legal advice – be it from the deacony, from the Caritas, from popular aid; not from these “left-wing organisations”, no, from the Christian organizations this criticism comes! – and you take responsibility for the fact that there is a legal violation of the physical integrity of minor protection seekers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] [[Abg. That's not true! That's what others do!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21016	Next, Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21040	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Windbühler, I am fascinated by what, but a little, strangeness you are addressing on this subject. I would like to give you some specific examples that illustrate why – and I think that can't be in our common sense – the FPÖ and the BZÖ are currently sitting on these questions a little bit and undeservedly first row without foot. We have a problem in Innsbruck with illegal Moroccans. They come, towed by the Italian Mafia, first to Italy and then to Austria. Many are already being picked up by the well-functioning police, are being brought back, come back across the green border immediately, are there, because here are already the colleagues. That's about 200 people, and I can tell you: They're holding all Innsbruck hostage! In a small, contemplative city, where I never had any fear of going to the street as a woman at night, I was attacked. This is no more dramatic, I can handle it, but every day women are attacked, robbed, mobile phones are stolen – at the station and everywhere – by 200 known Moroccans. They come and say once First: We are not Moroccans at all, we are Algerians, because then the chance is higher that they actually get asylum. The interpreters then say: No, the dialect – this is already a Moroccan! - That's all right. Then each one of them – and that will be passed on, and it will also be advised – says: I'm underage! We have a mammography screening in Tyrol from 40 years old for all women, where they have the opportunity to make a mammography once a year. If someone says a root X-ray in life is too much, then I have to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun]] For God's sake, dear women, you get all cancer and you die when you do mammography screenings! - It can't be. [[Abg. Kickl: That's ridiculous!]] So how's this going on? .................................................................................................. I'm underage! The police are really poor. In the future, one can prove to them that they are not. In fact, minors are not only linked to the better status of asylum proceedings, but also to the fact that, if they have become criminal, a rat's tail is linked to further reliefs in the judicial system: Juvenile jurisdiction and shorter prison sentences. If a cell phone is stolen, then the offenders are taken, our police have that super in their hands. They are displayed on a free footing. Then one day the trial comes – and maybe you'll find the perpetrator. The one who attacked me, I put on the street myself: He's been given four years. My procedure has been eliminated because it was only under “a distance” because the person concerned has come to terms with drug trafficking and no idea what all, four years ago. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Two! Two robberys! Twice he's allowed!]] I browsed a database with 200 photos and looked up once. All crimes there are several times condemned! That upsets people, Mrs. Colleague! That is why, for the first time, women in Innsbruck are afraid of going to the streets, we are taking these measures, and not so, Mrs Colleague, because we are so “evil”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I was in Uganda, I was in other countries, and I understand that from there people flee, yes, I wish we could get more of them with the crazy lot of money we are spending at the moment. At present, the one who has been attacked and his cell phone has been stolen after the 150. Follow-up request for asylum and the settlement of the procedure, even from taxes pay everything twice itself. I'd be glad if we could open the doors a long way for all the people who get miscredited and who don't make it up to us. I'd send them a plane and get them! In a few years, if we don't need the money for the offenders, I'm right. The FPÖ, on the other hand, makes a lot of important things impossible at the same time and is inconsistency in that we have the problem of not being able to move the mentioned ones because Morocco says: I'm sorry, but if he says he's Algerian, and we never find passports, we don't want these illegal staff members either, keep them! And they're with us, they're patient and they're still getting money. And the one who stole the cell phone, three months after he comes out of prison, is going to walk back in front of the same people on the street. Every Innsbrucker knows the 200 I'm talking about by the face and by name! That is frustrating and a failure of the rule of law! And I insist that once in a while one is trying to think about whether there should be any secondary territory limitation – no idea what – up to a deportation. But this is illegal in human beings, and I also say: A rule of law must not go beyond human rights. These are borders, so we must live, and at European level we can solve this problem. That's why I can only say: If you think it seriously by FPÖ and BZÖ, you also have to say: Yes to Europe, because the Moroccans tell Austria: Who are you? – We are a small country, where the EU as a whole has better opportunities. And only if the EU negotiates the problem, for example with Morocco, can we finally resolve the problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21104	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayerhofer; 4 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21126	I was at the crime scene on Monday. Tagdienst. Police Vienna-Five House. [[Abg. Kößl: “Tatort” on TV?]] Not on TV! That might be the case with you if you still don't do anything on your PI. Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! For decades the slogan of the ÖVP and especially SPÖ politicians was: Foreigners! First they called foreign workers, now they're called guest workers. And then you made the family estate possible – and it was the actual damage. In almost no country in the world, there is family estate in the form, because the other countries know exactly why: Because it really costs money. But there has been an interesting newspaper article that I can get closer to you on this occasion, by Mariam Lau in the newspaper “THE WORLD”. The article reads: ‘Migration: Reckoning with a myth” about Christopher Caldwell’s just published book, where Selbiger rightly asks the question: “Can Europe stay what it is, although other people live in it?” His answer is clear and clear: no! I believe that the same applies to Austria. The Austrian population would have had to be informed about this for decades, and what an impact it has! What does she have politicians who have to think ahead and look forward to? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Caldwell also says that immigrants claim social systems more than they contribute to them. – We can now see this with a sense of convenience, and you are quite afraid of what measures will still be needed, which we do not decide today, that we will somehow get through the rounds. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] These false slogans were, in fact, very harmful because they were carried out silently and quietly behind the backs of Austrian citizens in Parliament. As I said, The overload of the state and the social systems has resulted from the family estate, and you have been significantly involved in it! [[towards SPÖ]] We will call the people responsible, not to say, the perpetrators. I can tell you that too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The concerns of the population have you for years – for years! – have moved through the area with the fascism cult. How could it be that for decades a democracy has pushed through this process against the declared will of the majority of the population? What democracy is that?, some sections of the population ask themselves, namely those affected. And this question is truly more than right, especially in the face of empty cash and recession. From my point of view, the recession is not over. What about the empty cash registers? – That will be the real disaster! It is not without reason, Mrs Minister, that the British police are just about to open up. I am afraid of what is happening to the executive and to the Austrian population, because there may well be some unrest. And the prophetic economic upturn you and your group are constantly talking about will, I fear, stay out longer than you would like. This means we are at the service-willing Austrian. They ask themselves: Why have we paid so much in this social system, and why does the citizen now have to pay so much for his treatment in the hospital? – For this very reason: Because this social system is overclaimed precisely by this group you have introduced here and for decades. I would also like to tell you that you can also find clear words at your base, including with the country officials. [[turned to SPÖ]] I quote here from the "Krone-West": Loosdorfer Ortschef finds clear words. I thought: What's going on? Is there a free mayor there? - No! It is a long-term social democratic countryman, a teacher. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] What did he say? – Loosdorfer local chief finds clear words, it says. He says that many immigrants... our tolerance... increasingly on a... [[Call:I read it to you]] Many immigrants are increasingly putting the Austrians to a hard test, says Jahrmann. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wenninger.]] Mr Wenninger, you'd better look in your district so that there's more security there! It looks particularly bad where you are. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But whoever gets into conflict with the law, Jaarmann goes on to say, and oversteps the social state, is indescribable to us. - Did you take part? I will then bring it up to you so that you do not have to wait for the protocol and see what your group colleague and your basic officials already give of themselves. To conclude: You are very far from the opinion of the population. What is now planned is a placebo for the dissatisfied population. The population is rightly dissatisfied. She fears that she is afraid because she is not doing anything about the overwhelming crime that clearly has to do with this unbridled immigration. And, my dear colleague, Steinhauser, a word to you I'm there for the difference from you, where it really happens, namely the police commissioner; so it used to be called, now it's called "city". [[Rejoicing]] And when you look into the prison books... – Listen, so that you know something too! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] The prison books contain nationalities, but I won't call them names so you can't make a complaint against me – you like to do that anyway; I remember the year 2000. I've noticed that very well. However, I tell you that most of the prisoners are non-Austrian, but they are asylum seekers. That's the truth! Let's say that by a policeman who's been sitting in the radio car for 32 years. And anyone from the SPÖ who wants should perhaps ask the Minister of the Interior if he can't drive in the radio car for half a day, in the Rayon, so that you too know what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21259	The next item is the speech by Mr Plessl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21280	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! The government template to be dealt with today, the novelle to the 2009 Foreign Rights Change Act, allows us to implement improvements to a wide range of legal instruments. With this novel, we can make necessary adjustments and address current circumstances and problem areas. The following points are particularly important: First: enhancing the efficiency of foreign legal procedures while safeguarding all guarantees of the rule of law. Secondly, The implementation of the highest judicial case law and European law and the jurisdiction of the ECJ. Thirdly, Fighting problem areas, for example in the case of asylum applications in the so-called Dublin cases and in the setting of asylum seekers. Especially in the implementation of the asylum and foreign law, our dedicated colleagues are at the forefront of the BMI, police, judicial and administration daily. I would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to all the officials for their tireless commitment and their ambitious daily commitment, for they are the first ones to be faced with new, individual problems in each of the official acts. [[Congratulations and bravails at SPÖ as well as applause with the ÖVP]] There was a need for action, in particular in follow-up applications, in Dublin cases and in the case of effective sanctions for offenders and foreigners. Because one thing is clear: Right must remain right! A properly handled and legally negative asylum procedure must be able to go along with and complete the return of the stranger. Mrs Innenminister, particularly in this area there is still a need for action, for example with regard to Nigeria. We therefore urge you, together with the Foreign Minister, to press ahead with the necessary arrangements for the return of these refugees at European level. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! We have heard different opinions on this issue again today. On the one hand, there are the Greens who see here once again a deterioration due to the present government template. But we say quite clearly: If you need asylum, you get asylum, however: Abuse of asylum must be combated! But I would like the other side: FPÖ and BZÖ, light up briefly. You are of the other opinion: that it is not far enough. However, you always forget your government participation, because: What was the position of FPÖ and BZÖ in the field of labour force? – For example, a tourism season comparison between 1998 and 2002: an increase of 416 percent under your government participation! And – I also say that – you have made foreign harvest helpers cheaper than domestic and therefore worst wage dumping door and gate open! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So the sober facts look different again. They crack the result, but fact is: This SPÖ-led federal government is correcting your mistakes today and creating legal solutions to all the problems you have caused in your government responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21350	As the last speaker, Mr Magistrate is speaking for the time being. Maier. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21372	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If I have heard and understood the discussion correctly, no one from the Members disputes that the right to asylum is a human right and is untouchable to us in the House. I would like to maintain this with all the clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The debate is about how to combat abuse, abuse and asylum fraud. The innovations now in place are the political response to certain abuses, to developments that need to be combated accordingly. I would like to say one more thing: Asylum, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, must be discussed on the basis of the Geneva Convention on Refugees and not on the basis of global migration flows. This does not create an asylum right, and here the European Union is in demand. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This amendment is also a good example of the legislative and legislative process, involving Parliament. I would really like to thank the staff of the Ministry of the Interior and the experts who were available to us, and we have taken into account various objections in an amendment request. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Policy is the essential task of responding to changed conditions and abuses. With these novelties, we are responding to the problem of asylum seekers and eligible beneficiaries. We are responding to the problem of follow-up applications, and we are also responding to the increasing number of asylum seekers who are withdrawing from a proper asylum procedure and who are evading illegality. But we also need to respond to special developments. Mr Hakl has very clearly explained the Innsbruck problem. We in Salzburg have a current problem with false identities and multiple identities, where illegals seem to have been legally concerned with a job in the labour market and have just appeared as asylum seekers. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The policy has to respond to these cases. And if you look at the figures – and I have learned in the Chamber of Labour to interpret numbers, to analyze figures – if you look at the development of the follow-up proposals the Green Group does not want to talk about – there is a question answer that the colleague Korun has received – then you can find the following: We've got till 31. In July 2010, 890 follow-up requests were received, until September there were 1 169 follow-up requests. And as a lawyer, I have to say: There is a “res iudicata”, a decided thing. It is not always possible to make new applications, even in construction procedures, without any change in decision-making. With this new regime, with the possibility of a mandate, it is in detail necessary to examine in detail whether there are significant new reasons for decision-making. The asylum seekers are not under general suspicion, I would like to maintain this with all the clarity. I can therefore invite you to agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21432	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft Amending Act 2009, title and receipt in 387 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on reintroduction of border controls. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the concept of criminality in the Asylum Act 2005. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on fingerprints in identity cards for strangers and cards for patients. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of a border protection unit at the Federal Ministry of the Interior. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues, on the planned relocation of 100 police officers to Graz-Straße. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Foreign Employment Act, including the title and receipt in 388 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 390 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:00:37]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (331, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which adopts an Explosive Act 2010 and amends the Commercial Code 1994 (389 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21582	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21610	Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we Greens welcomed the innovation of the explosive law. The last version of the law came from 1935, and the original ministerial draft was quite appropriate, because the possession and acquisition of shooting equipment was necessarily bound to an authorisation. Then something happened, which was actually to be expected, because the weapons lobby has been storming. And the Minister of the Interior is in check and has obviously fulfilled all the wishes. Suddenly everything's different. The draft ministerial proposal now provides for an exemption from each authorisation of up to 10 kg of firearms. If you have a gun passport, you don't need permission. Who's at is a member of a shooter club, does not need permission. If you're in a Sportsman Association, you don't need permission. That means it's enough that you're just a member of one of these associations. There is no need to control reliability and ability, and you can already have unlimited means of shooting. So my safety needs do not meet that – a law that originally provided to regulate the possession of shooting equipment, not at all. The current version does lead to these thoughts being completely ad absurd, because those who buy shooting equipment will in the future be subject to the derogations. And those for whom shootings would be limited do not buy any shootings at all. In this sense, we will reject this law because it does not even comply with the original idea in approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21655	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21676	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Unlike Mr Steinhauser, we will be happy to agree to this legislative initiative. Mr Steinhauser, I think you should note that there is a draft law first, after which there is a review phase and at the end you can still assess what remains of it. From my point of view, five things stand out clearly. It is a question of the power to manufacture who is allowed to produce shooting and explosives on which basis. It's about the production permit. It is also about ensuring that the safety aspect is respected and that the requirements for safety are fulfilled. The question is who is entitled to trade, because only with appropriate training and with relevant professional practice is this possible; this is clearly laid down in the law. But it is also about who can own and acquire and who can be issued a fire and explosive. There must be clear evidence of training, legitimate interests and needs as well as use and storage. In conclusion, however, it is also a question of official monitoring of inventory management, in order to prevent the management of stocks and to prevent abuse. Who's affected by the law? – The law naturally affects the economy very massively, which employs explosives every day in economic life, for example in the event of explosions in quarries and in road and tunnel construction. However, to a large extent the rural regions concerned are concerned as regards security when it comes to raising avalanches in order to protect people and objects. Especially in my native Tyrol, it is really an important aspect of dealing with these dangers without delay with professional competence. However, it is a question of not mistrusting sportsmen and hunters in the cultural and sports sectors – and I believe that is what Mr Steinhauser has mentioned. These have already used explosive and shooting equipment with high care and expertise. It is not necessarily a question of mistrust, but it is a question of – we have just come in here, namely in the traditional world of the shooters – that with care and expertise we can continue to allow multiple loads at cartridges. This is not necessarily a major obstacle either. The draft law was presented. I would like to thank you on behalf of many clubs affected by this. I don't want to say there are any dangers at all. But I think it's always crucial to deal with and handle. There are dangers today in dealing with many things in the household, but also in the economy. That's what it's all about, what people do and how they do it. From my point of view, this bill is to a great extent in line with the safety requirements. I think that's important to all of us. ==References====External links== In January 2010, a modern law replaces a law that has been in force since 1935. That is why we all have a reason and the task to agree. Finally, I invite the Greens to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21725	The next speaker was Mr Fazekas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21746	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! My previous speaker, Mr Steinhauser, has already mentioned it: This is a law that has stood all the confusion of the time since 1935, apart from a few innovations; it has basically not been a bad law, but it has ultimately lasted a little. The need has brought with it new aspects that are adequate in this act of law, both the signs of time and the state of the art. This too has already been said: Important contents, therefore, are, in particular, the regulation of general production power, the power of trade, the rules of reliability on and for themselves, which also define very explicitly defined circumstances. A chemistry study is required, a professional practice is required. These are very important innovations. Another positive innovation is the fact that the owners of firearms and explosives are obliged to carry out continuous records of stocks, including periodic inspections. To what has been said about the arms lobby, I do not really want to support it now, Mr Steinhauser, because we should have a clear commitment to the fact that the sportsmen – these are not just people playing the Wildwest – are excluded. They represent our country as precision protectors in the Olympic Games and World Championships. This is a concentration sport that is very important and costs a lot of money in particular. This money can then be saved if it is possible that the shooters can now load their cartridges more often after this draft law. This is a very important aspect. Because we have excellent athletes in the shooter area. This also shows the international successes. That is why I think this law is a good, successful law. We can agree. And another fact, which is very essential, is that the provisions and any infringements are not only to be attributed to the administrative criminal record, as was the case in the old law, but rather to a criminal offence. So for the sportsmen, this is an excellent solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21789	The next item is the speech by Mr Herbert. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21813	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The government's current proposal is largely consensual. FPÖ will also give its approval to this government template. I do not want to hide that we initially had our concerns, because the draft assessment originally called for a separate administrative authorisation for the acquisition of fire equipment. This would mean an excessive hardness not only for private weapons owners, but also for the sportsmen and members of traditional shooter associations, it would have meant a considerable bureaucratic effort and an unacceptable cost factor. Even so far, for these groups of persons, the possession of shooting equipment has not been subject to any official authorisation. In our view, since this is no longer reflected in the draft directive, which is unfair and which is not meaningful, our reservations are no longer given. We will therefore agree, as has been said, to this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21846	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21867	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll take it short: We too will vote in favour of this government proposal. Our concerns have also been related to the area which has already been raised several times here. The fact is that the traditional shooters or the sportsmen would have come under the wheels. There would have been high costs for these people, the recharging is important. There are also munitions for the traditional shooters, which cannot even be bought, which have to be made themselves. There you have to see that these clubs or brotherhoods do not come under the wheels. Mr Steinhauser, you have to take a distance from this – I would just like to recommend this – to always put clubs or groups that are absolutely serious, which are reliable, which have been tested x-time, into a criminal corner! Those who are criminal do not get the ammunition legally anyway. You can believe me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21901	Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21922	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The 2010 Explosive Act replaces a law from 1935. In 1999, the Hoge Haus passed the First Federal Law Enforcement Act, which lays down that all the laws announced before 1946. were put into effect at the end of December 2009. That is why the law on explosives in force also comes to an end at the end of the year and the law to be decided today is being replaced by that law. It clearly regulates the handling, such as storage, placing on the market as well as the production, production and trade of firearms and explosives. This requires, of course, a general producer's power, production permits, commercial powers, a fire and explosive licence and, above all, an intensive documentation of what happened in continuous records that must be kept for ten years. At the same time, we are also implementing an EU directive on explosive substances in terms of labelling and tracking. On behalf of Mr Steinhauser, who has noted that a change has been made between the assessment and the government template. Mr Steinhauser, it is true that, as a result of the so far freedom of authorisation of shooting equipment, the possibility has been provided that shooting agents up to 10 kg can continue to be used without a gun ticket, except for associations and persons such as hunters, gun owners, sportsmen and holders of a trade authorisation for the arms industry. These can continue to acquire firearms without a licence. These groups of persons either through their decades-long handling of shooting equipment in the course of the exercise of the customs, association membership or precisely due to the exercise of sporting experience with safe handling. That is why we believe that this is justified. They are black powders for the front loaders or for example those clubs that fill their cartridges themselves. I don't think you should make the club's life more difficult here by overcrowding bureaucracy. We have therefore recognised this as justified. The high approval here in the house shows that this is what the House sees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21964	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21986	Mr President. Madam Minister of the Interior! Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have printed out the German law paper from 1935, kept wonderful in curate writing and designed great. I may give you a brief hearing from Section I, Section 1: ‘Storage and explosives are included in this Act in all products which release such energy in case of arbitraryly soluble chemical state changes that firearms can be driven or shattered into solid bodies.’ Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter has already referred to the need for a new law to be passed in the course of the First Federal Law Reorganisation Act. The Federal Minister presented the law in a perfect way. I wouldn't have been better. - I'll agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22022	Mr Haimbuchner has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22045	Mr President. Mrs Federal Minister for Justice! Mrs. Federal Minister for the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! We of the FPÖ will agree to this bill. These have been removed from certain fangs and for this reason it is not a problem to give consent here as well. I would like to lose a few personal words on this item on the agenda. As you know, I will be going to the state government to Upper Austria on Friday. There were three wonderful years here in the high house. I think there is no better job in Austria than Parliament and trying to do the best for this republic and our homeland. I would also like to take the opportunity to say thank you. I would like to thank my colleagues, especially my parliamentary group. I would like to thank my dear fatherly friend Lutz Weinzinger, who has supported me in recent years, where it has only gone, who is also responsible for my life course. Thank you! I would like to thank the staff of the clubs, the staff of Parliament for the work being done here, which is certainly not always easy at this time stress. We think of various committees of inquiry that have taken place in recent years. I too have been allowed to participate in this. It was a wonderful time. It was a nice time. It was an interesting time. I also thank you as a young Member – I came to this House at the age of 27 a few years ago – with those experienced Members – including the other parliamentary clubs – who have been sincere and respectful to me. Sometimes I also had to be sanded a little. Once again, it is in democracy. That's what it belongs to. But I think I have done quite well with everyone and I try to continue to handle this in the state government in Upper Austria. I wish you every possible good in the private sector, a lot of health – that is the highest good – a lot of commitment, a lot of positive work for the Republic of Austria, for the people of this country, because politics is not a self-interest, politics – that is work for other people, that is also sometimes the commitment for the weaker in our society, and that should be taken very seriously. In this sense, I wish you all the right, good luck and a lot of positive work for our beautiful home country, the Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22098	I would also like to ask our colleague Dr. Manfred Haimbuchner, on behalf of all our colleagues here in the House, for all the good, health, success and happiness for his further development in politics, but also in the private and professional field. He is not going to lose politics, but he is changing to another responsible function. I think the most important thing is that you also find time for your family, these politicians often need politicians. Thank you also for the beautiful words, all good and good luck in our all names. [[Complementary with FPÖ, SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[20:20:30]] No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 331 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:22:35]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 374/A by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues in a federal law which repeals Nazi judgments (NS Collection Act) (358 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report and request of the Committee on Justice on a Law on Repeal and Rehabilitation (359 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22179	We now come to the points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Fichtenbauer spoke. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22206	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! [[In the direction of the Abg. Head of the government bank and Minister of State Mag. Bandion-Ortner says:]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to talk about such a delicate subject. Of course, I am referring to the Repeal and Rehabilitation Act – that is, indeed – not to Steinhauser’s request. It is now true that there can be no doubt that the decisions referred to in § 1 that have been made in the former German Empire are objectionable and worthy of disposal. I would like to add a point of view, for reasons of state law, which probably does not significantly affect the course of the discussion, but which seems to me to be worth mentioning from a very sober legal point of view. Point one: Austria ended in 1938 as a sovereign state. There are two theories: either the theory of annexation, which used to represent social democracy in memory of the Presidents of the Federal Republic of Germany, or the theory of the occupation of the remaining ruling majority. Nevertheless – there was no sovereign state of Austria. Now it is a consequence of the obvious fact that the newly acquired Austria is not the legal successor of the German Empire and was that it is a at least a state-law problem to lift or declare judgments made in the territory of the German Empire as not taking place. Of course, this is not of practical relevance, I admit, but from legal cleanliness there is a possible problem in relation to the theory of occupation. It should be said better: if there is no validity in the Austrian territory, then one would not get into a theoretically possible confrontation. Furthermore – something which is not so clear here, but which I would like to express –: There is no doubt that the activity of military courts or military jurisdiction has undoubtedly been an instrument of Nazi terror. The figures available show that at least 17 000, but probably 25 000 – if not more – have been passed and executed by these courts; a drama in relation to the other fighting armies. I believe that there are no more than 20 death sentences from the US forces, about as many of the English, the Soviet Union is completely outlawed – no rule of law possible in this context – and France has imposed a little more death sentences. So the difference between the fighting armies of similar magnitude and the German army is dramatic enough. It was an instrument of terror, not a question! You would have made it easy for the Freedom Party to agree to this law if § 4, that is, rehabilitation, were not necessarily a concern to you. In this regard, I say stunnedly and clearly that this exceeds a level which does not satisfy our understanding of equal opportunities. There are on the primary question of justification of desertion, which in principle does not belong to the positive legal system, in no state of the world, differentiated answers, and the first answer given by the ÖVP at that time was also the one that we made ourselves ourselves: It would be the case if the assessment were to be carried out on a case-by-case basis. Now we can say that this is a long time ago, but there is an objective investigation, namely that of the Swiss state, which has been embarrassingly carefully investigated there. There is a sample of 501 documented surveys of deserters from the German army, which expresses a very, very differentiated causality image or a very differentiated motive story; at least humanly understandable, no question at all: Unbelief in the final victory, fear of punishment for own crimes, opposition to National Socialism as political orientation, Alsace, Lothringer, Luxembourgers felt badly treated as foreigners, fear of the East Front, poor treatment, and so on. Active resistance to the German Empire, however, only eleven persons did. That, of course, after 1945, deserters have put the resistance act in the foreground, that is understandable, but you don't have to share it with approval – let me continue! – if you consider other actions within the framework of the German Wehrmacht from the aspect of resistance, which is undoubtedly positively connoted. [[Abg. Oils: Why not?]] I recall the Austrian Major Carl Szokoll – which I do not need to describe in detail here – one of the most important people in Austria from the time of military resistance, who has contributed significantly to the fact that, as far as it went, Vienna has been spared from severe Russian exterminations. In several discussions, Szokoll did not speak positively about desertion. Another person I would like to bring you closer to, a certain Wilm Hosenfeld, a man who was finally appointed a Lieutenant in Warsaw, who had clearly spoken against the Nazi regime before his active dealings with his wife, after having had opportunity to protect countless Poles and Jews from the persecution and deportation by working in his department. After the defense of the fortress of Warsaw was abandoned by the German Ar-mei, Hosenfeld is on the 17th. He was captured by Soviet soldiers in January 1945. All efforts to be released failed despite the support of those whom he had received. In the middle of 1950, a Belarusian military tribunal even sentenced him to 25 years in prison for alleged war crimes. He died in Soviet captivity in 1952. By the way, he is known as the savior of Wladyslav Szpilman in his also filmed story. Ladies and gentlemen, I come back to what I said at first. It's easy to wipe over, and it's easy to equalise inequalities. In the light of the fate of a human being that I have presented to you, and in the light of many persons acting like it, simply to wipe and say, all are rehabilitated – and we know very well that there has also been serious injustices in the movement of desertions; I do not want to make any further statements here – we seem to be displeased and burdened by the memory of honest-acting people, without expressing that the Nazi regime was a terrorist regime that we deeply abhor.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22258	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22279	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The peace in the hall, Dr. Fichtenbauer, has guaranteed you high attention, because you have already presented it very differentiatedly. I believe that the discussion, as differentiated as it has been, was ultimately a fruitful one and also brought a reasonable solution. I believe that this is an important political signal today and leads to a long-term debate to a positive end. Through the liberation of 1945, supplemented by the recognition law of 2005, the judgments of the Nazi Special Military Courts have already been lifted for desertion, there are still two reasons for this decision: that the present package sets out a clear political sign, namely expressly all those respect and recognition that have leaned against the injustice regime, as resistance fighters, as desertors or so-called war traitors, and secondly, the law now, I believe, is of central importance, because it clears ambiguities, misunderstandings, and thus closes gaps, namely by including the judgments of the People's Court, through the involvement of the Special Courts and Courts of Justice and of the National Court of Justice on forced sterilisation and forced abortion. In addition, convictions are also removed for sexual acts in so far as the conduct would be punishable today. Some of you, ladies and gentlemen, may have seen the exhibition at Nestroyhof in the Leopoldstadt Praterstraße entitled "What was right then...". On this occasion I warmly welcome the chairman of the staff committee Richard Wadani, who attends the discussions here. [[towards gallery]] [[General condolences.]] It was important to me at the opening of this exhibition, which I consider important for an important contribution also in the sense of political education, to stress that it can contribute to a more open debate in Austria, especially in terms of depth and sensitivity. I am therefore very pleased that we have achieved such a result through a consensus between the government parties and the Greens, through a very successful cooperation between these three parliamentary groups, but also through good discussions with you and your body. [[towards Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner]] I think that what the exhibition is all about to young people, namely to deal with historical events, is particularly important because it is the danger of indifference to the events of recent history. This commemoration brings with it a very concrete responsibility, namely to pay tribute to those who have rebelled against injustice regimes such as National Socialism. I am glad that we can decide today.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22334	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22355	Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that we do not make a unanimous decision in this regard today, because we have, in fact, repeatedly tried to express in such requests, which are intended to express the revulsion and unconditional criticism of the atrocities of National Socialism, if possible to signal an equivalent – even for the symbolic value to the outside – to all political groups. We discussed very intensively in the Committee, and I actually felt there that we would benefit from the time until today, until the plenary negotiations, in order to reach this agreement. That was also announced. It's still employees, I think, who came out of your cabinet asking me what else we need to be able to agree. [[towards Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner]] Perhaps one or two sentences would have been necessary as an explanation. – Unfortunately, no one has come, it has not been tried to include these one or two sentences in the law, so that we can agree. That's what I'm asking myself: Why isn't that happening? Do you not intend to make a unanimous decision here? Was this just such a debate on the occasion of the 2009 commemorative year to commemorate the beginning of World War II? If one wanted to show something again, but did not really send the signal – which is of course, I assume – that all five political groups condemn these atrocities and the injustices that have taken place from the National Socialism? Much of the one that is now being decided has also found our approval. That the abolition is also extended to decisions against homosexuals, to decisions relating to forced sterilization – well, of course, no debate at all! It is also reasonable to say that the rehabilitation of homosexuals does not include those crimes that would be punishable even today, such as the abuse of minors, which are of course also taken into account in the individual case and carry out an individual examination. But all of this has not been done at § 4 in which the deserters are concerned, and that is incomprehensible, because there too one should not shave everything over a comb. I do not want to continue the argument – because I find it impossible – that one cannot rehabilitate the desertors because they are comrade killers and so on. – That’s nonsense, that’s wrong and rejects. I see it differently: I do not want to treat every deserter the same way as those who, for reasons of conscience, have rejected the service at the military power – at any time – such as hunters, who have to find all of us recognition and respect, without having to deal with others with a raised finger, because thank God no one of us has to live in such times and serve in such armies. I do not want people like Franz Jägerstätter to be identified with others – and it has also added to it: the typical opportunists – who perhaps – and these cases were there, they have even served for years in literature with them – more than they had to have been, perhaps real, opportunistic National Socialists, who have approached critics, but in recent days they have noticed that perhaps the leaf is turning and it would have happened now to go to the other side, regardless of how it happened then, whether – it has also happened – criminal acts have taken place. These people are now being rehabilitated without the examination of the individual case, without – and this would have been our wish – one could have added a sentence – that the motive for the desertion and for the refusal of military service should also be taken into this legal system. I believe that this is contrary to the principles that one wanted to create with this legal provision, and that is a pity, because if that were not just a lip commitment to a anniversary year, then there would have been the possibility that we would bring together a five-party decision and that we would really be able to meet the concerns of the victims, so few of them, and the real resistance fighters. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22415	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22437	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It was and is not a lip commitment to the anniversary year. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then why didn't you want an agreement?]] We know very well that we must continue to explore history, to be intimidating, and I thank very much those who organized and also carried out the exhibition “What was right at that time...”. I therefore attach the hope that this exhibition will not only be shown in Vienna, but also in other federal states, with the possibility of taking into account regional stories, regional problems, stories about the resistance of the regions. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We don't think there's a lot of motive research. It must be borne in mind that desertors, for whatever reason they have been destroyed, have faced a huge risk and have been executed at the end of the war. I would also like to remind you that Austria would not have received the State Treaty, there would not have been this resistance at various levels of society, whose players were not rehabilitated after the Second World War, but were slandered and struggled to return to social policy. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With this law we set a clear political commitment and a clear political signal. We are going the way that Germany also went in August, where there has also been this flat-rate rehabilitation. I agree on many points with the differentiated presentation of Peter Fichtenbauer and underline his statements on the Nazi military justice. Justice was an instrument of national socialist terror, and that is why this law of abolition and rehabilitation is so necessary. Mr Neugebauer has already pointed out what is actually happening here: This law provides for retroactive lifting of judicial decisions with typical national socialist injustice and for comprehensive rehabilitation. For example, these are the criminal judgments of the courts and courts which were not yet covered by the 2005 recognition law. I made the effort and read some judgments, for example, the judgment of the Vienna Special Court against the Tischlermeister Ludwig Saffrian, residing in Vienna, where it says: “The defendants are sentenced to this for the purpose of spreading news from the London-Sender, Saffrian and Studniczka: 1) Ludwig Saffrian to 7 (seven) years of Breeding House (...). Or the judgment of the “Volksgerichtshof” against the railwayer Alois Brunner and wife Josefine Brunner – both from Wörgl –, the mechanical castler Balthasar Höck from Innsbruck, the spengler Johann Loibichler from Kufstein, the seller Johanna Hofer from Häring/Tirl, the childfraule Frieda Haupt aus Bludenz and the miner Otto Thies from Mühlbach am Hochkönig. The married couple Brunner was sentenced to death and also executed the death sentence. It was not used by the right of grace, that is, in the act: “In the criminal case against those of the Volksgerichtshof on 28 May, the Court of First Instance held that the Court of First Instance had failed to fulfil its obligations under the law of the Court of First Instance. May 1943, when Alois Brunner and Josefine Brunner were sentenced to death, I decided, with the permission of the leader, not to use the right of grace, but to let justice go free. ==References== August 1943.’ What was that justice, High House? Or the murder of Major Karl Biedermann in Vienna, who was sentenced to death during the last days of the war? Or the judgments of the inheritance courts? The orders of forced sterilizations? – They too are now being recorded, colleague Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Colleagues, but they have already been removed!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No, they have already been removed!]] - No, I don't. I read from a decision: “In the name of the German people! In the proceedings concerning the infertilization of the entire Therese Zibusch, born on 7.8.1905 in Amaliendorf, residing in Alt-Dietmann, a married daughter of Thomas Zibusch and Marie, born Permesse, the Heir Health Court Krems decided at the meeting of 18.3.1944 by the District Court Council Otto Brosch, the official doctor Dr. Anton Gruss and the doctor Dr. Leopold Tangl: The Therese Zibusch is to be made infertile.” High House, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with today's decision on this Enforcement and Rehabilitation Act, we will ensure legal clarity. There will be legal certainty. The 2005 recognition law has not covered certain judgments of the NS-Justice – the NS-Terror Justice. High House, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can invite you to agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22503	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. Speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22524	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that this is a very sensitive area and that is why we should also look at very carefully how the rules we are proposing here are being made. The current legal status is a Federal Law on the Recognition of Benefits in Austrian Resistance and the Final Elimination of National Socialist Injustices. One can, of course, fail and improve final disposals once again, and this is to be done here. We have the Enforcement and Rehabilitation Act. In his § 1 para. 1 will be extended to foreigners who have been sentenced domestically. I am somewhat concerned because a jurisdiction for foreigners who have been sentenced to Austrian territory suggests that this is a follow-up – and I do not think we wanted to have this discussion. Peter Fichtenbauer has already suggested that you should pay very close attention to how to choose the formulation in order not to get into this discussion. Furthermore, in this paragraph. 1 that mixed convictions are no longer examined from now on. So far, § 9 para. 1 of the 1946 Liberation Convention provides that mixed convictions – i.e. convictions, which on the one hand have been made on the basis of laws which clearly include national socialist ideas, and on the other hand, because of crimes which would also be punishable under Austrian law, could be subjected to another investigation. Of course, this is actually not or hardly relevant in practice, because the only crime that would not be delayed is murder. But on the other hand, it is precisely about the fact that with this present act, all the murders that have been co-condemned in connection with Nazi convictions are also permanently amnesty and lifted – and that is not in our sense; so we do not imagine that. Furthermore, it is in § 1 para. 2 as already stated, an extension to decisions which had not been taken so far has been made. This is undoubtedly very useful and correct, for example the extension to decisions of the People's Court, the special courts and the courts or the local health courts. In fact, however, it becomes problematic in § 4 para. 1, in which there is a general rehabilitation of all those who have contributed to the weakening or termination of the Nazi injustice regime. It is precisely this undifferentiated procedure that we criticise, because it does not take into account any motive nor the circumstances under which such an action was taken. This, of course, makes criminal acts, which according to current law would be as criminal as possible, rehabilitated in a rehabilitated way, and this is very problematic, because it is undoubtedly only a question of putting a symbol in place – it has almost no practical meaning. If you rehabilitate deserteurs on a flat-rate basis, you have to ask yourself which of the two following views you represent: Either it is in principle for soldiers to decide for themselves whether they obey orders or withdraw from the force – then this should also apply nowadays, and that will probably not be meant – or any action directed against the NS system is definitely justified. In addition to the fact that this would lead to the majority of warrings being viewed as cowardly or indecent, one must also insist: Even if Resistance Obligation would be, the purpose does not sanctify the means! Even then, for example, individual actions can fulfil the crime of war, and even then these acts of resistance must comply with the law of morality. [[Abg. Oils: Which one?]] – Murder, for example, is certainly an act that should continue to be punishable in this context. So if one really strives to rehabilitate the victims of the Third Reich, for example, it would have been useful to apply the Russian model. There tens of thousands of members of the Wehrmacht have been sentenced by Stalinist justice as war criminals, and Russia has given these men or their families the opportunity to check in individual cases whether these convictions were justified. Some 90 percent of these reviews have led to rehabilitation. These are advocacys that can actually give peace to families. The flat-rate lifting of judgments, in which – as in the NS period – it is not differentiated whether, for example, someone has acted in war prisoners with fellow human beings or as real comrade murderers, is by no means satisfactory in the same form. Remember, therefore, that for this reason you are setting a wrong sign with this law and that this is also not acceptable to the memory of the resistance fighters!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22572	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. Set speaking time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22593	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, this decision is an important day for Austria. This law brings satisfaction to the victims of National Socialism. The groups of victims have already been listed: the victims of the special and stand-by courts as well as the national courts, the victims of the decisions on forced sterilization and forced abortions – only 6,000 Austrian women were affected by forced sterilization. Physical disorders such as blindness and deafness as well as mental disorders have led to this; the Nazi regime was merciless. It is a pleasure for the victims of terror against homosexuals, and it brings the explicit political rehabilitation of the desertors. It is also very important that this law contains a general clause that states that all decisions have been repealed, the expression of typical national socialist injustice. This is necessary because research is constantly discovering new groups of victims, which would not then be covered by this law. If this law is passed today, all Nazi judgments have been removed. This is a milestone in Austrian history, because Austria clearly has a position. Austria says: We are behind the victims of the Nazi regime, and we are behind those people who have actively resisted the Nazi regime! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] It took a long time – 64 years – but the debate here in the House took a long time. Ten years ago it was a first motion for a resolution by Andreas Wabl – I do not know if he is still present, he has been listening to this debate for a while – who has initiated this discussion. [[The speaker looks at the visitor gallery]] Then Teresa Stoisits successfully continued this discussion, and today, I believe, we have reached the end of this discussion. Another milestone was the important scientific research by Walter Manoshek. This cleared up the prejudice that desertors are violent perpetrators. The research results have produced a very clear result: There were 1 300 cases of desertion, and only 0.39 percent of all desserts were physically violent in the game. If it's said today that murder remains murder, I'd like to give you an example, and maybe think about it. Then you will have your position: ==References== In May 1945 the Total Wehrmacht capitulated, but not all associations wanted to stick to it. In Norway, there was an army unit in which the command was issued: We're still fighting, that's not true for us! In addition, there was a clear command to shoot on the retreat all the rags they met, as they were suspected of working with the Russians. This command was also valid for all Norwegians who were armed. The soldiers concerned knew what it meant to comply with this command. They have therefore decided in a small group to assassinate the militant Nazi captain. They did so, fled, were persecuted by Nazi army units, and the smaller part of the group – 11 people – was actually caught again. Ladies and gentlemen, still on 9. On May 10, a military court sentenced four of them to death. In May these death sentences were executed two days after the capitulation of the Wehrmacht. Can we make these people an accusation? Do we have the right to judge them, to deny them justice and rehabilitation? I say: No, they are rehabilitated! Whoever does not notice that the smaller part that only a very small part of the desertors committed physical violence is already suspected of discrediting the desertors and thus discrediting the resistance to the NS regime. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I would like to mention a name because its carrier has made an important contribution: This is Professor Moos. Professor Moos has provided the legal considerations for the green initiative proposal, which has ultimately been incorporated into the current proposal. These were important assistance to achieve this comprehensive rehabilitation. A name has already fallen here, that of Richard Wadani. He's still here and he's listening to this debate. He is the honorary observer of the Association People's Committee "Justice for the Victims of the Nazi Military Justice". He was a tireless fighter, he never gave up. When you listen to him, you know it wasn't easy. I think that he must be respected and thanked! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this law – I come back to it – this is expressly happening. It was always interesting to listen to him and hear that the desertors could not understand that they had made a contribution to the liberation of Austria, that they had made a contribution to the end of the war, but that they had been despised in the post-war Austria. At the latest, with this law, it is clear that this situation has changed. The Republic has declared itself: In this law, the articles 4 expressly express respect for the desertors and victims of Nazi infringement decisions. That's an important point! Ladies and gentlemen, let me mention a few other names, however, because such a law is not possible, if you do not also have allies in other parties who help to change something here. First of all, I should like to thank Mrs. National Council President Prammer, who has made a clear public statement and then – I believe that even if I cannot always look behind the scenes of the other parties – was an important engine that has come to a change. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] In the same way, there have been these in-depth allies in the Austrian People's Party. The second President of the National Council of Neugebauer has also always been very clear. I am convinced that, in the background too, he has actively contributed to this law. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] Also Andreas Khol: I had the fun to discuss with him a few weeks ago. We will never agree on the evaluation of black and blue – that was immediately a dispute issue – but on the question of the assessment of the desertors it was possible to draw a line with him. I think Andreas Khol has also made an important contribution. In recent days, there has been an important contribution by the Minister of Justice and her team. We carried out so many things, some of them public – that is what I think was right – but then, when it came to it, the discussions were very productive. The Minister of Justice, Bandion-Ortner, and her team have repeatedly given attention to our arguments and have shown much patience with us, because we have always thought about what could be taken into account in this law. I would like to thank you for that. Today we will decide on this law. Legal texts are patient, so nothing has yet been won. Now this positioning of the Republic has to be filled with life, now it has to be in the history books. This must not only be the attitude of Parliament, but also the attitude of the Austrians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22732	Mrs. Mag, Federal Minister, has now spoken. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22754	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me start with a report from the "Tyrol daily" of 8th century. Citing October of this year, it says: The appearance had symbolic power. Together with the justice spokespersons of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens, yesterday the Minister of Justice presented the draft of the Repeal and Rehabilitation Act, with which she wants to draw a legal conclusion among the injustices of the Nazi era. - Quote. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there was a gap! The gap should now be closed. There were still Nazi judgments that were taken under the cover of justice, but which diametrically contradicted any principles of justice, any principles of the rule of law. I am really pleased that there has been an agreement between the government parties and the Greens. I am all the more sorry that the BZÖ and the FPÖ do not seem to go along. It would have been an important symbol if everyone had agreed. It has already been said which judgments are to be affected by the withdrawal. It is true that there is now, to the most extent, a flat-rate withdrawal of these judgments. Only in cases where judgments have been pronounced on the grounds of gender equality, there is a case-by-case examination because it is necessary to see whether these acts would still be punishable under present law. In addition, a case-by-case check will be carried out when the general clause is applied. The National Criminal Court Vienna will be responsible for the repeal of these judgments or for declaratory decisions. A reconciliation advisory committee is to be set up to advise on the various applications. Ladies and gentlemen, this law creates legal certainty and legal clarity. Of course, we no longer know how many people are still alive who are affected by these withdrawals. Of course, this law is more symbolic, and it is, I believe, very important for the descendants of those affected. One thing you must of course also emphasize: By this law, the soldiers of the Second World War are not to be devalued. Of course, many have believed in doing their duty, and only too often has bravery and love of country been abused. But it's like this: Austria was the victim of National Socialism, but there were many Austrians who took part in it. Consciousness about this is one of the foundations of this law. This awareness must be further promoted. Ladies and gentlemen. Sections do not change the hearts of people – but they change the knowledge and the discussion with their own history. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22812	Next came Mr Weinzinger. I'll set the clock on desired 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22833	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Now we have heard many legal, legal, very successful, partly very emotional opinions on this new law, and also regret that two parties cannot agree, for one reason: for the reason of the general admissibility of all deserters. You know, of course, and you can see that I am already one of the elders of this house. I was lucky to speak in my early childhood with many soldiers of the various degrees of service even of the First World War and World War II. And some of you will know that until a few months ago I was with great enthusiasm with the Austrian Federal Army. What I heard of fates, especially of the soldiers of the Second World War, was often extremely shocking! Of course, most have condemned the system of injustice, which ruled at the time and which they often could not escape. But they still have something to condemn: They have very often condemned the desertors because they suffered from it. On the one hand, they suffered the loss of comrades to whom they had completely relied – for they had to rely on them – and on the other hand, one or another could report that they were then shot at that front section, on that position or on the cover that was not yet known, with steep firearms or similar. I don't know if we can imagine it to our older generation – as far as it still lives – who was in the war, that her Republic of Austria, in whose construction she fully cooperated in, that her home country suddenly rehabilitated those who did not like them and who made them responsible – not all, but many – for bad results, we call it so, now through the bank all. Single rehabilitation: yes, of course! Watch and observe: in this case no problem, in that case no problem. That's how you do it with the homosexuals, so is it. It would have been already done, and you also know that we would not have dared to agree to the whole matter. But it has not happened to us anymore, my friends from the judicial committee have informed me, and this has also been confirmed by the BZÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not leave the older generation – as far as it still lives – who has experienced this war actively, the feeling that those who are not disappointed may be the worse Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22879	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22900	Madam President, Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is undoubtedly a sensitive matter and debate, especially because it is a very, very difficult time for our country, which we are dealing with today, a very difficult time with far-reaching consequences, as we know, for the people of our country, Europe and the whole world. I am therefore very glad that this debate is taking place in a very quiet and very objective atmosphere, even though there or there there there are still differences of opinion. I am also very glad that there has been very clear clarification by all political groups here – in so far as one can now see this – that the military and SS courts, the special and stand-alone courts, but also the People's Court, have not been courts in the conventional sense, so that one cannot, in fact, remove all the judgments that have been passed by these so-called courts in a uniform and complete way, and that there is no room for different and differentiated action here. Many people, during this difficult time of our country, have come into the Nazi terror machine, and have therefore mostly become victims of this cruel injustice regime with very, very bad consequences, down to death. It was therefore the Austrian People's Party from the beginning of the Second Republic, from the first day after the liberation of this injustice regime, from the Nazi rule to a serious concern to remove the injustices of this injustice regime without fail and to undo them. This was, as has already been pointed out several times today, in 1945 and 1946, in the context of the repeal and recruitment laws and liberation. This was in 2005 when, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Second World War, a majority of this House passed the 2005 recognition law. And this is so today with the decision-making of the 2009 Repeal and Rehabilitation Act. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we were also able to agree to express our understanding and compassion for many other victims of National Socialism and the terrible war. However, I am also looking for understanding among those political groups who have mounted this and have seen the need for change here, that I think it would be totally unreasonable and inhumane, in my opinion, to go to motif research more than 60 years after the end of the Nazi regime, and to try in individual cases to find out what motives were relevant to desertion and resistance. I don't think that's realistic. With today's decision-making, which has already been said a few times, we stand to do so and are glad to do so, we will also remove the last gaps of the continuation of the Nazi regime, rehabilitate many victims of National Socialism and thus finally eliminate the injustice committed to them. For formal reasons, I should like to add the following amendment, which concerns only the title of the draft law: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I believe those who have followed this debate, the history of this law and the outcome we are deciding today will recognize that it is also a good chapter of this House and a good chapter of parliamentaryism. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22976	The amendment that has just been read is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Wittmann has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23001	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can almost completely join the previous speakers: I believe it is important that 60 years after the end of World War II it is not necessary to carry out motive research to find out what led to resistance or desertion. I believe it is important that one has a general clause to establish rehabilitation for all, because it is unthinkable to find out or correct the motives after 60 years. I also think that the example that Mr Steinhauser has brought is an act of resistance. For this reason, a rehabilitation would be appropriate here, even if this resistance included physical violence. I think this example is actually one of those examples that can be used for the fact that motif research would be impossible in such a case. That is why I consider the general clause to be one of the key points of this law. I also believe that we are doing well to conclude a general clause with this time and with these judgments of injustice. Mr Weinzinger, it is not about mutilating those who remained in the Wehrmacht until the end of the war, but about restoring the reputation in judgments that were unjust and that have discriminated against those who were subject to these judgments. [[Abg. May. Stefan: The judgment had already been lifted! That's 60 years ago!]] That does not mean to take a right from someone but to give a right to those who are subject to unjust judgment. [[Abg. May. Stefan: You have already been lifted, these judgments! They've been removed since 1946!]] I think there is a huge difference, and I believe that it is not possible to play out against each other, but to those who have been wronged, by this law, we are giving back the rehabilitation and the production of their normal legal status to them. I think I would like to reject this approach because I believe it is about rehabilitating those people who have become victims of an unjust judgment and have put an act of resistance, and not about discriminate against those who remained in the army until the end of the war. [[Abg. May. Stefan: They have already been removed!]] They have not been discriminated against, but they have been discriminated against by those who have committed a resistance act that has committed a desertion act and who have had a conviction. It must be rehabilitated again, which must be finally released from these judgments of injustice and fully rehabilitated to them. I would like to pay particular attention to our Madam President Mag. Thank you, Prammer, the driving force behind this law, and has played a very important part in the fact that this law has come into effect and can now be concluded under this horrible time. I think it is appropriate to pay all the tribute to those who have put an act of resistance to such an injustice regime. I think that entry into force by 1. No day too early on December 2009 and I am glad that we have come to a majority understanding here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23064	Mr Dr. Walser has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23085	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we experience a historic moment here in this House. This law also draws a conclusion under an inconsistency with the past, which has also existed in this Republic after 1945, an approach that has assumed that Austria was the first victim, an approach that has ruled out that Austria has also had a share in the National Socialist criminal regime. Today, among other things, we give back the honor to desertors, including Richard Wadani, who have not been condemned. People who, after 1945, instead of finding recognition for their deeds, were despised were insulted. I could tell you very, very many examples, because I have dealt with this matter myself in Vorarlberg. I have felt that the current discussion was very, very beneficial. I would also like to express my express thanks to the two parties, for it is not natural for us to hold a discussion on this matter in this material form. Unfortunately, I have already experienced this in a different way in this House. I think there are arguments here that can be discussed. If I think of the way in which Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Scheibner or Mr Stefan argued, I cannot logically do so. I'd like to... However, it is precisely on one of their arguments that the so-called individual case test is taken a little closer. Col. Fichtenbauer, you yourself compared the Nazi terrorist justice in the Wehrmacht with the military justice in the other armies of the Second World War and determined the differences. It might be added that there are estimates of historians who have up to 50,000 executed death sentences. In comparison, in the First World War, there were 48 executed death sentences in Germany. This shows the terrorist content of these judgments. And if you look at these judgments – I have read many of them –, judgments written in the spirit of a Roland Freisler, then you will not be able to seriously believe that today, 70 years after the beginning of World War II, we are able to explore motives. These judgments and these files are against national socialist propaganda, they are pamphletes against the convicted. This has nothing to do with legal proceedings. Because of these files, we are unable to carry out a case-by-case examination today. So this is a thing of impossibility, and therefore, of course, this law has its authority and absolute necessity. Deserators in the Second World War have done the right thing objectively. You have objectively done what the victors, the later victors, did on 1st. ==References====External links== They have contributed to the restoration of Austria. This was demanded by the Allies at the time, and this has been done by deserters. Why they have committed this act in individual cases is irrelevant from this point of view, that is in another discussion, I believe, of great interest. A special joy is for me, since I was also very much in the southern Carinthia, that today also for condemned Carinthian partisans is a historic day, because since the popular court judgments are abolished overall, many Carinthian partisans who are sentenced to death have now also regained their honor. Unfortunately, they too had to wait too long for this historic moment in this state. Overall, today is a day that is good for the reputation of Austria. Let me end with a quote from the “New Zurich Newspaper” of 14. ==References== There Charles Ritterband – I quote – writes: This breakthrough is mainly due to an extra-party committee with today's 87-year-old Wehrmachtsdesereur Richard Wadani at the top and the ten-year-old hard-working of the Greens in the fight against taboos and prejudices. - Quote. I don't think there's anything to add to it. It is for us, I may say, a great success, it is a great satisfaction for all those who have worked for justice, for a new view of the Nazi era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23153	Now comes Mrs Mag. Hakl in word; 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23180	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It seems to be true that, like the Committee in this House, we are only a few millimeters apart, and it is never too late to be involved in an even more clear sign from Parliament to rehabilitate many persons from the Nazi era. FPÖ and BZÖ could also vote in the last few minutes, and perhaps they could help me to point out that both Mr Weinzinger and Mr Wittmann had a mistake in thinking in their speeches, as they said, we would now reverse the judgments on desertion. Ladies and gentlemen! This happened in 1945. [[Abg. Scheibner: We would not need the law to do this!]] All judgments on desertion and all related mixed judgments were withdrawn in 1945. The only thing that remains or remains was that these judgments were followed by a possible review. Now there is a general rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is basically right that in the judicial field always the assessment of the circumstances of the individual case has to be applied. What, though, were they for courts at the time? I believe it is necessary to make exceptions if a Reichsgericht war betrayal, already in the legal context, has spread to civilians who simply have resisted politics, forced women to become forced tosterilization and abortions, so when such unjust judgments were made. I also believe that it is justified to withdraw from the assessment of the circumstances of the individual case in these few small individual cases and to do the only right thing, namely to remove all the judgments of this injustice and to finally rehabilitate all of them concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23220	Mr Karl Oellinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23244	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks, especially to the initiators, have been expressed several times. I like to repeat him. I would also like to thank all those who have participated in this discussion or have contributed to this decision. It has also been noted by some speakers that the atmosphere in which this discussion takes place is a special one. – Yes, I can see that too, and I also draw my conclusions from it: Why is this discussion different from many others that we had on similar questions, at once a special one? My conclusion is: For the first time, I experience that three parties agree on a very, very important and constitutional issue for the self-understanding of this Republic. There is now something like a clarity about what you want, what you want to have removed, and this also creates the prerequisite for the other parties that differ in one point or another. I can go with President Neugebauer. In the speech of Mr Fichtenbauer, I thought: yes, interesting, exciting listening, and yet there are still points that separate me from this argument. For me, however, it is essential that there is something like a Cordon sanitaire in one for the Republic, for its history, for its self-conception. This creates a completely different condition for the debate than if it did not exist. This is forcing, and please do not misunderstand, you too, in a completely different situation, to hold this debate with us. [[towards FPÖ and BZÖ]] And that's good! If there were this unity in essential, essential questions for the Republic, for its self-understanding essential questions also in other areas, then we have a much better basis to discuss, not only among the three parties that have taken this decision, but also with the others who do not agree for one reason or another. You can read this in this debate why it is so clearly different from other debates. That's one. Secondly, I am already at the heart of the criticism you have expressed, Mr Fichtenbauer, or, for example, you, Mr Scheibner. It is absolutely legitimate to point out here right-wing theoretic, right-wing dogmatic reasons, but for me, this is the first thing that matters to me. That was also the reason for my intercession with Mr Stefan's speech: the question of murder! The question of murder is considered in practical terms: If a Wehrmacht soldier shoots a human being who wants to desert, then it was duty-fulfilment and not murder. If a deserter shoots an officer in an attempt to get rid of the force, and there was also the example that was brought, although the special situation after the capitulation of the Wehrmacht is simply unimaginable for us, so if a deserter shoots an officer – it did, as one knows from research, de facto not given in Austria, but we take the case once – then it was murder after then legal situation. That's where you see the difference! It's just that we – and it's absolutely right, I think, to make this decision – don't focus on the Wehrmacht soldier who shot him, but also don't check the motives of the deserter. It's just about that! And that is an absolutely liberating act, that this individual case test or this motivation test – could not have been a low motive behind it, why is it ruined? – is removed and thus made clear to the desertors, but not only to the desertors that they have done the right thing. Mr Weinzinger, that is still not to say that we condemn those who have served and believed in the military power to fulfil their duty, because they have not fulfilled the duty of this Republic if they have fulfilled the duty, then they have fulfilled it for a criminal regime. There have been so many situations of motivation, including so many reasons why the young people usually did not realize it at the time. They have been driven into a criminal war, and this applies equally to Austrians and Germans. That's why you shouldn't judge it. But still applies: Those who have opposed this war, this crime, this terrorist regime, which should primarily be recognized.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23311	Mr Fichtenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I'll set the clock up to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23333	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am forced to add a few additional sentences. I refer to what Mr Scheibner said. We separated ourselves in the judicial committee with the possibility of supplementing the critical section 4, that is to say the rehabilitation section, by means of a half-rate, that this flat-rate rehabilitation – and the content of this rehabilitation is also a declaration of value – would be limited by an exception, without thereby having to come to the individual case test, that there would be an exception if this act of resistance or whatever that did not result in any condemnation had been associated with murder. Even if Mr. Manoshek found out that it was only a small percentage, even the murdered had a mother who wept for her son. Or when I think about what Mr Weinzinger said: If a person, without having to do anything, has overflowed and has betrayed his own position, so that enemy fire could be directed to the position and those who have perished there, the mothers have also had. The problem is that the devil of every war is, of course, that it becomes one and that it itself is a killing machine, and the individual who is supplied with a power of decision which is not available to it acts in accordance with the conscience and the situation of his life or does not act. Mr Walser said something right. It's probably 50,000, that's right. I think I know that in fact there are only a maximum of 25 000 files, at least there is a secure record of 17 000, but it is likely that this number of 50 000, particularly accepted by the German Military History Research Office, is correct and, I repeat, not to overdo it in renunciation, without exception. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: What do you want to say?]] They also called the name Freisler. Now I'm really going to have a sector in the field of terror. The history of justice in the “Third Reich” as well as the terrorist machine has never really been reworked. [[Congratulations to members of FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You've always been concerned with the soldiers, and the soldiers were extradited to the force. However, the career judges who pronounced three death sentences for breakfast, for example, because someone heard the English station, were very soon seen in office and dignity after 1945. And that's a loathsome thing that's never really been reworked. If processing is done, then we recognize that the legal maintenance of a state is the foundation of the justice and dignity of people, and it has been trodden with feet at that time, but never has it come to a similar processing of this group of persons as against the soldiers!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23381	Mrs Franz is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23403	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Minister. They have made it possible for us to have a majority agreement here in order to rehabilitate these NS-justice victims. I would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, who have participated in this discussion for this clear, objective discussion in this very sensitive history. 70 years after the outbreak of World War II, we owe it to the victims who have come into the years, but also to their relatives that they get their rehabilitation. Like most of us, I am convinced that it was time to close a chapter that still had some inconsistencies in it. After long discussions in the past, we have it has now succeeded in abolishing all judgments of this Nazi regime on a flat-rate basis. This is why package is important because it is really impossible to do motif research after so long. It has already been said a lot, and I do not want to add too much to this. The debate has brought a very reasonable solution. There are legal certainty, there is clarity, some gaps have been closed. It is a shame that we cannot adopt this law unanimously.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23442	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report in 358 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft legislation on cancellation and rehabilitation in 359 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to a change in the title of the draft law. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen. I ask for an appropriate sign upon consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[21:43:18]] 12. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (322 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the IPR Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act and the Traffic Victim Reimbursement Act and repealing the Federal Law on International Insurance Contract Law for the European Economic Area (356 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23522	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Hakl. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23556	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll do it briefly. I am particularly pleased that the implementation of the regulation on the law applicable to contractual debt will now be reformed and that we will therefore save ourselves in the future through administrative simplifications, which is particularly important in view of the major tasks we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23580	Now comes Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23601	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! My first speech at the Hohen House deals with the amendment of the International Private Law and the repeal of the German Federal Law on International Insurance Contract Law for the EEA. What are the improvements of this new law or the modification of the IPRG? There is no additional administrative burden for the Federal Government, not even for economic operators, since no additional information is required. In the medium term, a potential for savings can also be expected, on the one hand, by setting up measures to facilitate legal proceedings, and on the other hand by avoiding incorrect legal assessments. Furthermore, this amendment also includes catch-up arrangements for acts not included in the Rome I Regulation, in order to resolve the gaps, such as the non-contained life insurance schemes. Otherwise, however, all insurance contracts are included in the Rome I Regulation, so a repeal of the Federal Law on International Insurance Contracts makes sense for the EEA. So far, the IPRG has been complicated. It was filled with reference standards, for the average users, it was hardly understandable. This change will simplify and make it more comprehensible and understandable. Furthermore, as mentioned above, legal assessments are also easier, and so there is a reduction and prevention of source of errors. In summary, it can be said that this amendment or abolition aims to bring about legal adjustment in the area of contractual debt, the elimination of error through obsolete reference standards, and the creation of legal clarity. The importance and correctness of this change can also be seen in the conduct of the judicial committee. There was a five-party agreement, which I am very pleased with in this matter. This means that not only party politics, but also the well-being of legal users is in the foreground. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23642	Mr Mag. Ikrath is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23663	Madam President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Our thanks also apply once again to the first-class work in the Ministry of Justice. It is just a model example, like two regulations, Rome-I and Rome-II, was implemented in Austrian law. It is gratifying to see that this will bring about legal clarification, that we have more legal certainty and more legal simplicity. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23699	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 322 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:48:49]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (95 e.g._Other Organiser Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism (357 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23752	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23779	Madam President, Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The agreement of the Council of Europe on the prevention of terrorism to be approved here is a matter of agreement, on the one hand, on the other hand, the approval of an agreement of the Council of Europe, which then needs national implementation. I should like to be brief, because we are grateful to God and, I really believe, agree that combating terrorism is an important task. And the fact that the States and members of the Council of Europe are familiar with this Convention to combat certain forms of terrorism effectively and also to cooperate in the fight against terrorism is therefore correct and good. In particular, I would just like to mention three facts which are particularly highlighted in the Convention: This is the public call for a terrorist crime, which is the application for terrorist purposes and that is training for terrorist purposes. There is also agreement that parts of this Council of Europe Convention have already been implemented internally in our criminal laws, in some parts it will still need to be implemented. I therefore welcome the fact that on the one hand we agree today It is in adopting this Council of Europe Convention and thus taking a step back to the effective fight against terrorism. However, I would also be pleased if we were to discuss the next few months together with the judicial body in implementing the measures to which we commit ourselves in this Council of Europe to find a common solution with which all five parties can go along in this House. I believe that this agreement, which constitutes a step towards combating terrorism, is approved by common accord, and I am already looking forward to the constructive discussions for the implementation of this Convention. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23821	Mr Pendl is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23843	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Very soon. I think that what my previous speaker has already said is not really something to add. I think that is absolutely necessary because of international development, especially in the field of terrorism. We have a consensual matter here. But why I have spoken has a single background. It is important to me, Mr Donnerbauer, that, in the implementations at the national level, of course, we also deal with them very sensitively in terms of democracy policy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. I know the discussions when it comes to security, but with all the need and clarity and clarity that we need here in cooperation with the Community of States, we must also have a clear view of fundamental rights and human rights. I invite you to this discussion before us today. I believe it is important that we not only make this agreement today, but that we also create the national legislation on matter. Good cooperation in the judicial committee! I'm already looking forward to when we're going to discuss the matter laws here.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23877	Mr Mag. Stadler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23899	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank my previous speaker for forgetting his mandatory thanks. [[Abg. Pendl: We are friendly people!]] - Yes, of course, Otto. I just wanted to get it for you. Mrs. Federal Minister! We will, of course, agree to this proposal, and we have done so in the Committee. I would just like to point out one aspect that has not yet occurred in the previous debate, and you should take this into account in the implementation of the Convention. However, we would not have needed this agreement to reinforce it here. It is about the following circumstances: I mention the interview by the head of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism BVT, Peter Gridling, on 12 February. ==References====External links== Peter Gridling says literally that in Austria there are a number of people who have been trained in foreign terrorist camps, that these are mainly representatives of the radical Islamic scene living in Austria, that they have developed contacts in these terrorist camps and continue to maintain these contacts. [[Abg. Wenninger: In Knittelfeld!]] What did you mean? What was it like a failed call? What does this have to do with knee field, please? What she calls a terrorist camp, as far as I know, has constructed the Army Defense Office. We will clarify this in the Committee, but if it is harmless or funny, what Mr Gridling has said and what we have heard in the National Security Council... [[Abg. Pendl: Confidential!]] - Please? [[Abg. Pendl: Confidential!]] – Of course, confidential. I don't think it's funny that terrorists who have been trained in foreign terrorist camps are running around in this country, and – now the Crux – there's no way the justice can do anything, because § 278b doesn't offer any handling. That is what the colleague thinks is funny. I don't know, has the debate been too long or have you been out of the house for too long? I don't know. I don't think it's funny when the head of the BVT laments that they know who was in foreign terrorist camps – that's what the colleague thinks is funny – that they're walking around in the country, that they're keeping contacts in the country, that they've shown this and the prosecutor's office has no hand because the law's not sharp enough. § 278b of the StGB offers no handling, ladies and gentlemen! My appeal, Mrs Bundesminister, is only to you – and I believe you do not raise this inappropriate humour – that this agreement should be given the opportunity to re-adjust here immediately. It didn't need this occasion, it would suffice that the head of the BVT says, I know who was trained, I know that they march around in an unmistakable number in Austria, I know they have international contacts, I know that there can happen something that can fall to the head of Austria, international. This would be quite embarrassing if there was a terrorist attack somewhere and it turned out that logistics was here in the country. I don't know if then social democracy would have the same humour. I don't have him anyway. [[Abg. Amon: You know that a novel is in preparation!]] I know, but it should have been there a long time. We would not have needed this agreement. Mr Amon, that would be something you could have brought in right away. I remember you had a few bank stories in there right away. You didn't have to do it for long, that's what happened to ruck-zuck. This is a matter which is not harmless, which is not quantité ungligeable from the scale, we have experienced in the National Security Council, and for which I am not prepared to place the same humour that obviously has parts of social democracy. My appeal: Please do this quickly, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23997	Mr Mag. Steinhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24019	Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of damage has already been done under the title “Fight of terrorism”, not only internationally by Bush – that is the first thing that comes under the term – but also in national legislation, saying: Extinction of civil rights. This Council of Europe is also moving at a very sensitive point. There is indeed a debate in criminal law on the extent to which criminal law should act preventively, to punish potentially dangerous behaviour. That's being criticized. The task of the police, not criminal law, is to defend the security of danger. Nevertheless, it is clear that international terrorism is a threat scenario that must be taken seriously. But it's a point where I'm really skeptical and then I'm looking for accuracy. § 278a Criminal Code, formation of a criminal organization, was created to combat international organised crime. – Sounds reasonable, too. However, the implementation and handling of this section is more than questionable in Austria. You know, Mrs Federal Minister, I have always been reluctant to comment on ongoing procedures, but it is increasingly difficult for me to continue to show this restraint here. Now, if you hear that a UVS judge may have been heard – I'm going to ask – but at least it was agreed by SOKO Animal Protection, because years ago, as a UVS judge, she removed a decision that affected animal protectionists, then that goes too far. I can't! You need to take care of your prosecutor's office, you're still responsible, and the prosecutor must take a look at the SOKO animal welfare. I can't do that. I've always said I'm not commenting on ongoing procedures, but that's too far. A UVS judge is now being persecuted for a decision in the UVS in connection with the entire animal protection case. That is totally unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is precisely why I am very skeptical and cautious about such projects and international agreements. Now all this sounds very logical and reasonable, then it is implemented, and then suddenly it is no longer the focus of international terrorism, but quite other people, and that is exactly the erodement of civil rights that one must feel as a threat. We will agree, but we will see in the implementation whether international terrorism is really in the eye or whether something else is being persecuted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24070	Mr Mag. Schönegger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24091	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This is a consensual matter, as I have already described in my previous speakers. It is about jointly deciding on the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention of Terrorism. That's what we're doing, because it's just a consensus matter. The measures range from improving the cooperation of the relevant authorities, through joint education and training, to promoting tolerance, for example through interreligious or cultural dialogue, but also general measures to raise awareness of the problem. International cooperation focuses on prevention measures, but also includes the obligation to international cooperation, extradition in certain incriminated cases. In times where threat scenarios of international terrorism are present worldwide, one must also face up to the challenge in this House and take into account the growing security need of citizens. That's what we do. This is also the case with the Federal Minister. You know that too, Mr. Magister Stadler, the laws of implementation that you have described as intensification here are on the way. You know that very well. There is therefore a certain degree of serenity on this point. [[Abg. Grosz: “Minister Stadler” likes me!]] – Gerald Grosz, thank you for your call! That's what I've been waiting for. Mr Bucher pointed out that you should sharpen your profile as the “Mini-Voves” of the Styria. Maybe you're on your way now with your calls. The value coordinates have changed: a small piece away from individual freedom to general security needs. We must also take note of that. It is about meeting these requirements with an eye - also towards Mr Steinhauser - but also decided to meet these new requirements. The balance between security, freedom and the rule of law must be maintained. A suitable way to maintain this balance – this is a worth mentioning priority! – is prevention: for example, before a specific suspicion of being able to detect sources of danger or to observe certain environmental issues. Democracy – and that is my real conviction – has the ability to reflect on its values and to initiate social self-understanding processes. We are in the middle of this process: A little less freedom of the individual for a great deal of general security. This is what we owe to the Austrians, we owe it to our state. That's where we're on the best way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24131	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24152	Madam President. I think I can join the speech of my predecessor seamlessly. The Convention has become a matter of consensus and therefore has become necessary because it is precisely because existing international treaties such as the Council of Europe Convention on the control of terrorism from 1977 have to be supplemented and adapted to current needs. I would like to say once again – as is defined in the Council of Europe – that terrorism constitutes a threat to democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the security of citizens and must be fought with utmost respect for fundamental rights. It is very important – and I would like to stress this – that measures to prevent terrorism should never be taken to address human rights, democratic and rule-of-law principles. This Convention shall apply both to penalties and to prevention. I think that we will not be able to deal with the problem of this agreement, as well as with other international treaties, because we are only fighting symptoms here. For this reason, all the agreements, beginning with the Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism from 1937, have remained largely ineffective. The real roots, I think, of the problem of terrorism lie in very many cases on the social issue. As long as in many parts of the earth the social gap is not fixed – in this context democracy is mostly to be strengthened – we will continue to face the consequences of terrorism in the future. I therefore think it is particularly important to support this resolution on combating terrorism at all levels and with all the means available to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24192	It now has Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24213	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is today the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Just briefly: There is hardly any need for adjustment in Austria. The crime of active and passive training in a terrorist camp is on track, and the design is almost finished. - So much to be betrayed. Overall: Austrian justice is well equipped in the fight against international terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24240	Mr Grosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you know the rules!
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24275	Madam President. Mr Schönegger said here that Mr Bucher said to me that I was a 'Mini-Voves'. In fact, I can correct that he has never said this and is not to be found in the media either. However, I should like to take this opportunity to say that we should not reduce ourselves to such physical characteristics, whether someone is big, small, thick or thin, in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24305	Mr Glaser is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24327	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Practically, no day goes by right now without reporting on any terrorist act and without the related message that so many innocent people had to die for some obscene cause of the terrorists. I therefore believe that we absolutely need this Convention, which aims to protect against terrorism, and that it is not a problem, as the Greens have partly seen it, but that it is absolutely justified. It cannot be assumed that, under the protection of freedom of expression, religious practice, for example, Hassperdiger is driving their beings or being tolerated by terrorist camps – there are already the first approaches – but such things must be stifled in the approach, in the germ. I believe that tolerance has its limits where the individual or society is actually affected and threatened. Of course, I also admit here that this should not be a free letter for arbitrary measures, but I believe that, especially in our countries and especially in Austria, a balanced and efficient legislation and its implementation in practice will manage it absolutely properly. In this sense, I ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24366	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24387	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been said a lot about this. Perhaps there is another aspect that we still need to address in connection with this Convention, namely that, as the Constitutional Protection Report points out, there is great importance not only in preventive work, but also in the possibility that security authorities and judicial authorities will be more closely interconnected with international cooperation, but also that increased importance should be attached to intercultural dialogue in order to be able to break the phenomenon of terrorism at its roots. With regard to all the measures that will in future also be put on the subject of terrorism – Mr Steinhauser has referred to it, and it has already been said by the Federal Minister, it is a rule-making work which deals with the issue, especially as regards the recruitment and training of terrorists and calls for terrorist actions – it is also a matter of constantly trying to keep in mind the respect of human rights and democracy, if I think only of the keyword of online investigation. People have a right to security and freedom. We don't want to put that in jeopardy. In order to ensure security and to be free to live, it is precisely this preventive work in the fight against crime and, above all, against international terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24418	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24439	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! The ratification of this Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism is a very correct and, above all, important step in the fight against terrorism. For the first time, however, this Convention covers the recruitment and training of people for terrorist purposes in Austria. Of course, there are calls and invitations from far-right groups to so-called training camps. The greatest threat, however, is currently clear from Islamist terrorists. According to Elmar Theveßen, a well-known terrorist expert on German television, there are now around 5,000 websites on the Internet that advertise the Holy War for jihad. Shortly before the German Bundestag election, the German-Morocan Islamist Bekkay Harrachov spread two gloomy video messages on the Internet, in which he not only threatened Germany, but also according to “spiegel”-online using the words – and I quote it literally –: For the cause of Allah I must be prepared to buy everything!, open to the Holy War... I'll call you. He also said: God will not ask if someone has been successful in jihad, but whether he has at least tried it. - Quote. Bekay Harrachov is not an isolated case. According to the “Washington Post” last Monday, thirty Germans have also entered Pakistan for terrorist training since January this year. All these facts show and prove that it is very important to conclude an agreement, since, despite the best basic social and material provision, Austria will not be completely spared from these developments. These agreements are vital signals towards those people who are trying to recruit for terrorist purposes in Austria, or Austrians who are trying to do the same. Finally, I would like to highlight something positive in the Convention to be ratified here, namely that in kind. 13 on the question of the protection of victims, the compensation of victims and the support of the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24484	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 95 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, according to which the present State Treaty is in accordance with the nature. Paragraph 50 2 Z 3 B-VG by passed laws to be complied with. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. [[22:14:40]] 14. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-24, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors, series Federal Government 2009/2 (384 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24537	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Zanger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24567	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors, good evening! Ladies and gentlemen! Last week, I think, we had about one and a half hours to consult ORF Director-General Wrabetz on this Court of Auditors report. An hour and a half is a truly generous time. If one considers only the questions that Members had on the basis of the report, one can imagine how far the answers have failed. If you need two minutes to ask the question of the To set or answer overall strategy of the ORF, a company with a balance sheet total of € 1 billion, employs around 4 600 employees and can be represented in about two minutes' overall strategy, then there is either a disguise or an incompetence behind it. I'm typing on the second connected to the first. A company that has 4 600 employees and is to be controlled by a board of foundations, which includes 35 persons, where individual board members do not even know what a company consulting firm named McKinsey is and probably know less about what it has to do, and do not even know what to do with the results. A company that considers three years for a long-term financial plan – only for comparison, a small rural community must submit a medium-term financial plan, which covers at least five years. An uncoordinated development in individual business areas has been identified. This is no wonder if the structure of the ORF with the various areas that obviously do not or do little to communicate with each other leads to a little bit of contemplation. It is logical, and the Court of Auditors has noted, that this has led to interface problems and double-tracks. Now a consulting company has found a savings potential of €27 million. This was also corrected downwards, and was implemented €10 million. The current need still amounts to around €80 million, whereas now it is said that, after a press release from yesterday, Mr. ORF General Director already wanted to find €20 million. Where the remaining 60 million are, you can only guess. Obviously or probably, the Director-General will insist on the Federal Government to refund those fees which he cannot obtain from the fee-free seers. There is a huge construction site in the monetary area. There are highly-advanced individual contracts, three different collective agreements. In reality, this ORF is a self-service shop, where the rulers live like the bacon made with an average content of about €69 000 – that is, that is, the cleaning woman deserves already, now exaggerated – with fat salary allowances that can amount to up to €2 250 per month, with additional service fees for which no time records need to be recorded and where the ORF does not even care to deliver an opinion on this criticism of the Court of Auditors, with generous pension schemes, with generous bonuses. Bonifications make sense. I see this positively in principle, if you create an incentive for performance, but this also includes clearly defined objectives and conditions. These goals have existed, but they have been defined in a way that only the hands can be struck over the head, because if targets are set in such a way that they can be achieved with the mere presence of an employee or a director in this case, then that cannot be the sense of creditification. At a time when the ORF loses market shares – no wonder, in this program! – he should actually go here and say: If I'm already shrinking in my results, then the entry salaries or manager salaries must fall! – Bonifications can continue to exist, that is not the big problem. The Court of Auditors has made 57 proposals for improvement on six pages. What we got in the answers was nothing. We will follow very closely whether something will happen at the ORF in the future, we will request it in the form of requests. But I think that something else would have to be written down in the Court of Auditors' law, just as it is in Germany that there is a compulsion or a need to take action. We have only recommendations and no sanctions if something is not implemented. That should not be the purpose of the Court of Auditors, that should not be the meaning of examinations. Here you have to think about making a mandatory provision. I think we should discuss this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24627	Now comes Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24649	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Mr Zanger has read the Court of Auditors' report with the tunnel view. He did not point out that the Court of Auditors had examined the period 2004 to 2007 – the last time the ORF had been examined in 1995 – that the ORF was a successful media company, although the number of competitors doubled in this period – this seems to have gone away from Mr. Zanger. He also avoided the fact that the staff yesterday agreed with the Directorate-General – i.e. employers' representatives and employees' representatives, works councils – with howls and tooth gnawings to a savings potential of €22 million, that in the coming years there will be a zero wage round, that there is no bonus for managers, that there is no valorization that the ORF is working very hard to accept the economic challenges, and that 45 of the 57 recommendations listed by the Court of Auditors are already in implementation, processing and development. I think you can close your eyes, of course, but I think it's very bad if you go through life with a tunnel view, because then you forget the rest of the world. Furthermore, the ORF did not make any risky claims, i.e. it did not fall into the financial crisis like other Austrian companies, but was able to keep the result here. In the final effect, the Court of Auditors' report shows a lot of proposals, measures which are also implemented in the company, so that this ORF's media flagship continues to be a good one. The discussion about the programme, which you like or do not like, is a discussion that can be held for a very long time and forever, but I do not think that we, as political representatives, can give our opinion on it, because I certainly like something different from you, Mr. Zanger. [[Abg. Singer: Thank God!]] And I think the diversity and bandwidth that are given in the ORF show that he keeps a good course.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24683	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24705	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mrs Lap, we can only, of course, talk about the Court of Auditors' report, as it is here, because, unfortunately, the Committee has not been a time to really know the current economic state of the ORF. [[Abg. Prehauser: The report is 2004 to 2007!]] It was not possible to get the question answered, and that is why nothing is left but to deal with this report here. [[Abg. Singer: It was a scam committee!]] And it's really about something else. If one knows a little about the business and the management of the business, then one realizes that this report contains engravings in it, namely, Lower Saxony! Every insider who knows what's going on here has to say it burns a lot of hat, and the ways – as the report puts it – are on crash. I have already said in the Committee that there is a comparison here with the AUA. Mr Prehauser said: AUA, that's no comparison at all, because the ORF has a basic capital of € 300 million! – Well, if you know that the ORF has lost €130 million in the last year of the report, you know that this basic capital is quickly gone and liquidity is at risk. In all these developments, as in the AUA, the ÖVP and the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Actionless!]] This is the worst, because it also threatens the ORF the pleite, ladies and gentlemen. If that goes on, the ORF will also slide in the pleite! And then what is it? – The taxpayer must, of course, stand straight for that. And we remember: At AUA, it was not only the loans that were given but 500 million euros that the taxpayer had to pay for co-donation so that the AUA could be donated to Lufthansa! Mr. Zanger has already said it: From our point of view, the close-to-state companies have become self-service shops for parts of the employees – with the help of the trade union – and also the board of directors. I would like to remind you of the generous treatises that have flown at the ÖBB to Mr Huber, in which AUA is due to Mr Ötsch – and I think that when Mr Wrabetz is so far, there will also be a lot of work there. These mistakes are tolerated by red and black, and the taxpayer is always the fool. I would like to inform you of comparisons with Bavarian broadcasting, which I have also received from the Court of Auditors: Bayerische Rundfunk has 4 661 employees and employs 327 million € for staff. Austrian broadcasting employs 4,023 people and employs €374 million – thus €50 million more, with 600 people less employees. It is said that the staffing effort is 26.6 percent for Bavarian broadcasting and 40 percent for Austrian broadcasting. In such facts, it is impossible to run a farm economically. This is simply so, and if not urgently here, the course is really urgent, we will soon have the problem that the pleite is threatening. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You sleep everything!]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: There has been a 22-million-€ package that the Central Works Council has decided! Why don't you mention that?]] It's been a while, isn't it? That's what happened in the paper today, yes. Unfortunately, this has not been discussed in the Committee. That would have interested us a lot more. But I think we're going to talk more about broadcasting here, because this problem is all about us. This individual measure you mention, Mr Cap, is just a drop on the hot stone. [[Abg. Bucher: (To Abg. Dr. Cap) With 22 million we won't be the ORF..., Mr. Colleague! 50 million we'll shoot this year!]] That's a lot more! I recall that there is no overall strategy that there is no marketing strategy, that there is no harmonisation with the ASVG-pension system and there are many, many other indications that this company is marode. You just need to know this when you're familiar with the management. It's just like that! These are indications that the ORF is mediocre. Unfortunately, it is. On the other hand, in addition to these misunderstandings in the ORF there are angry customers, there is a bad program, there are fee payers who are not at all satisfied with what the ORF offers them. From my point of view, the ORF is a huge large construction site, and it is questionable whether this construction can ever be completed or whether there is actually a pleite on us, like the AUA – and I believe that the ÖBB as a pleite operation also comes upon us. On the one hand, the trade unions are responsible for breaking down businesses here, but also unable managers are responsible, covered and indebted by red and black! [[Abg. Silhavy: You live in a wrong world!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24831	Mr Gahr has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24852	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already reflected a lot. This Court of Auditors report deals with the years 2004 to 2007, which the Court of Auditors has considered here, and we are now writing the year 2009. I believe that the environment and statements of the Court of Auditors, whether the economic situation – we are living at a time when there is a certain mood in the banking and economic sectors and a certain situation that is not necessarily pleasing, and I believe that this is also the ORF somewhere – is very important that we take the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously. I didn't need to say anything but: Save, save, save, and reform! I think there are already a few homeworks to do. I am very glad – it has been discussed in the Committee – that the Director-General has announced and announced concrete steps here. I mean, we need that to have a strong and independent ORF in the future, which meets its public-law mission. I believe that the situation on the market, competition, especially with private providers, also brings with it that we are required here. What has the Court of Auditors overall shown? – He pointed out that the need for overdue structural reforms in order to survive in competition was long overdue. There needs to be an overall strategy, a modern corporate concept and, of course, a repositioning process, because it has changed a lot in the environment. It is therefore necessary to focus this on the requirements and also on the economic environment at this time, on this environment. What is also important – we also represent taxpayers – is that the revenue from television fees and advertising money are properly managed. I think there's a lot of homework here. In the field of personnel, Director-General Wrabetz announced a savings of 12 percent, i.e. 440 people. That's not a good thing if you need to reduce staff. Every job that is lost is one too much. Nevertheless, I believe that you have to put the lever on here as a whole. He has also promised us that the leaders will be reduced by 25 percent, but also that we will look for the way to the negotiations. As far as the Treaties are concerned, too: There are about one fifth of the Treaties, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, where there are real privileges which are no longer modern and which are not responsible. Director-General Wrabetz has also promised us that eight main departments will be reduced to four. And also in the field of technology need to be optimised and improved. I have noticed a sentence from the President of the Court of Auditors that he concerns the issue of the Foundation Council. Mr President, Mr Moser said very strongly that the Council of the Foundation was unable to carry out the control function. - Yeah, what's in the arse? We need a body here, which carries out the supervisory function professionally and decisively! There are huge problems here. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Thank you, Mr President, for addressing this so openly in committee. There are a lot of recommendations – Mr Lapp said it – but there are also decisions that are simply being implemented too slowly. What is the overall objective of this examination? - Not to make the ORF public bad. That's an Austrian brand, and I refuse to talk to him publicly. We need an ORF that remains in its unit and whose existence is secured in the long term, an ORF that is well and purposely positioned, efficient and economical and where there are satisfied customers and good businesses! In this sense, I would like and call for the management to continue the course that the Director-General has informed us about in committee. It is very important to me that the ORF comes out of the negative headlines as quickly as possible because every crisis, I believe, hurts a company. [[Abg. New builder: How is that supposed to go? How's that going?]] And what I would like to conclude: a better interaction between management, the Foundation Council, but also politics, because we also create framework conditions here. From my point of view: The ORF must recognize the signs of time, for only a strong ORF can serve the land and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24895	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24916	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! No, Mr Gahr, it's no good to beg the ORF until it's really broken. That doesn't mean anything! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We had an hour and a half on Thursday to discuss 57 points that the Court of Auditors had mounted at the ORF. Of these one and a half hours, the honourable Member has just been at his disposal for half an hour, because one hour the Secretary of State Lopatka, who was present, and the ORF General Wrabetz have suffocated. [[Abg. May. Lap: That's not true!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Who called the special meeting on Thursday?]] You've been baffling with nothing for an hour and a half of these! Mr Wrabetz has needed more than half an hour to explain to us that everything in this Court of Auditors report is Rubbish now and is uninteresting, because everything is already different, because he has now saved 25 percent of management positions and 12 percent of employees, and 22 percent of contractually agreed income has also been reduced – and now everything is in order again in the ORF. When Mr Strutz of the BZÖ proposed that we go through at least once the most important of these 57 points, the postponement was, of course, immediately rejected. That's how it looks! Mrs Lap, you were also at this committee meeting! Why Have You obviously have a very different impression from that of Mr Strutz and I who were there, and Mr Grauur and Mr Zanger? [[Abg. May. Lapp:... a concrete question?]] Mrs Colleague, the ORF still lacks an overall strategy. I quote only the most important from these 57 points: “In some media areas of the ORF, production processes in the editorial departments and programme departments were not sufficiently coordinated.” That is the fine language of the Court of Auditors. Double-tracks, doubles and triples have been paid for the same work, absolutely unnecessary! That's how it looks! When the Court of Auditors has assembled this, the crown has been set up, and there have been additional deputy editors, own consuls, and five resellers. I am now correcting my colleagues in the political groups. Vocal: No, it's not just 60 000 € average income. In technology it is 100 000 € average income, ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Look at what you have a year! That's the average income in the ORF! Because it's a very special sugar: In 2004, the Director-General commissioned a consultative firm to carry out an overall cost analysis. There came out, there are 27 million € savings potential. A steering committee, to which it is its own chairman, then decided: Well, we realize 22.6 million € in reduction. This then became 16,6 million € without a decision, songless and soundless. The whole thing went over the table of a gentleman who was the head of the ORF at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: The Wrabetz!]] - That's it. And he's the Director-General now. We are already with these managers in the ORF. In 2002, the Director-General of the Foundation has three pages – three pages! – a comprehensive proposal for the introduction of an ORF quality assurance programme – the irony I do not want to comment on right now. The Completely based on a quality monitoring already existing in the ORF for several years, which has just been extended to the entire range of programs. For this, the Lady and Men's Managers have collected €63,600 – in real money: 900,000 schilling. That's how it looks! But that's how it goes: From 2003 on, they made it smarter. They have informed an expert that these quality criteria have been met. The opinion cost between € 225 000 and € 279 000. And for that, they again paid € 63,600. And because all the other criteria have been met, they have additionally collected € 254 000 bonuses – in this ORF! And the man who has the financial responsibility is in front of this company now, Franz Hörl! And you have to answer that.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25008	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25031	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I would like to thank you, Dr. Moser, and your staff very much for the work you did in the course of the ORF review, because this report by the Court of Auditors is really necessary in order to make progress. However, the way in which this volume and the Court of Auditors' proposals are dealt with is a bad idea. You yourself have criticised in this report that the ORF actually commissioned large-scale opinions from external consultants during the examination period, but that the recommendations have only been sufficiently implemented. For example, a study by McKinsey, which cost almost €600,000, has been launched. A similar fate now suffers from this Court of Auditors report. It is by no means the way in which the colleague of the SPÖ said there were 57 very specific criticisms of the Court of Auditors and 45 recommendations, so to speak, in implementation. I'm just asking you: Which of these points are in implementation? I'll call you a few now. The Court of Auditors proposes that a strategic marketing concept should be developed and the marketing sector reorganised. – There is no newly organized marketing area! There is no strategic marketing concept! Next point: The operational implementation of marketing activities and the sale of advertising times for all media sectors should be carried out by a subsidiary. – There is not even strategic considerations to do so. All personnel tasks should be summarized in an organisational unit. – Nothing has happened! To streamline the organisation of the ORF, the Directorate for Online and New Media should be dissolved. – Nothing has happened! I do not come to the deep-seated reforms at all. The number of directors must be reduced. – Nothing has happened! The number of departments and other organisational units should be reduced. – Nothing has happened! Participation concepts. – Nothing has happened! Subsidiary, market positioning, performance of tasks questioned. – Nothing has happened! And so we could go through all these 57 points that we also wanted to discuss in the Committee on the Court of Auditors with Mr Wrabetz. It's just that it's all in the best order, anyway, as the SPÖ and ÖVP wanted to make believe here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] One more point to the agreement of the trade union with the ORF leadership. What is this great litter, the potential for saving, which is suddenly being lubricationd? – The 2010 salary round suspension? Onset of the anniversary money? Abolition of the Car Friday as an ORF celebration day? – Well, that's a great ORF concept! At the same time, the trade union, famous to the ORF Central Works Council, has maintained that it has achieved that the ORF 2010 does not give up operational terminations, that further negotiations must no longer take place by the next year, nor will there be any further deterioration. Do you know what that means? – A year more blockade of all reforms in the ORF! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the great success concept that the Director-General has implemented with the trade union. In reality, he once again kneeled before the Red Central Works Council. Congratulations that you can also sell it as an agreement! I can only tell you: We have here a report of the Court of Auditors, which will in fact be shoved like all other recommendations and where there are no consequences. Before the summer break, the competent State Secretary announced that there would be a new ORF law. To date, we have not heard anything about this ORF law, and I also tell you why – because there is a political dispute between SPÖ and ÖVP. The ÖVP is annoying the SPÖ in the ORF law, and the SPÖ is annoying the ÖVP on the question of EU Commissioner. That was actually the political deal of this coalition: You get the ORF, for that we get the EU skills. Now you're fighting, now you're getting into each other's hair. The sufferers are the ORF and, above all, the television viewers who have to pay the token.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25117	Mr Brosz is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25139	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! I can try to lead the debate a little less emotionally, because there are things that need to be changed with certainty in the ORF, there are things that simply meet the ORF because of international developments in the media sector, and, as I believe, there are also things where certain reforms have been introduced. Let us go to the first area where developments are overshadowing. For example, if you look at the development of advertising revenue, you might already be able to say: In one area or another, the ORF might have been able to react better. But that's the German advertising. [[Abg. Head: Everyone has the problem!]] The problem is everyone, is now a good call, because the advertising windows probably meet the ORF differently than the Austrian print media or the radio. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not really need to talk about it seriously. [[Abg. Head: All television stations across Europe have the problem of advertising!]] No, that's not quite true in the form. There is the special situation of a very large neighbouring country, where, of course, ORF broadcasts have a completely different competition from foreign-language broadcasts. It would be weird if you didn't take that seriously. [[Abg. Head: This is an old hat!]] Yeah, I know, it's an old hat. Therefore, the ÖVP has always done the ORF policy as it did. I'm trying to have a discussion here, where they say: Okay, there are developments that are likely to be difficult to reverse to a certain degree. If you look at the advertising revenue and the curve of advertising revenue over the last ten years, no one can say that you can now expect that at once, five years perspective, the ORF will again have 70 percent of the revenue from the advertising sector, while on the other hand, the private will no longer have it. This development is to a certain extent predetermined. There are old loads. Perhaps you should look at this realistically, for example. This has already been mentioned in the Committee. If you look at the new salary scheme, no one can say that steps have already been taken. 15 salaries in advance – be abolished. Now there are 14. Steps have been taken on the question of heights and the difference between entry and exit salaries. By the way, one should take a bit of a nose off the part of the ÖVP itself, because the political conditions were not involved in the development either. If you act like you don't have anything to do with it, it's probably not quite credible. Of course, you have to say that salary schemes, where we have average costs – by the way, they are not gross salaries, that is once again a difference, but so exactly you don't need to take it – from almost €100 000 per person, show that the company has a certain problem, because this will probably be scarcely manageable in the market area. You can take this relatively easy. For example, if 50 percent could be saved in the field of television production staff if it were not directly operated by the ORF but outsourced, then this shows that the market situation seems to be something different from what the salary scheme of the ORF brings. Now is just the question: How fast can you react? We also know the contracts that are there. How do we get out of the contracts? It is difficult to tell the ORF that you can cancel the contracts, which in part still had bizarre conditions. The 25 finishes that have been available for the Executive Board up to the previous period, as I mean, also speak volumes, by the way, even for people who have newly entered the Executive Board and who have not received them for a lifetime in the ORF, but for a management period. So there is already evidence that I would say that until a relatively short time ago there has been very negligent handling of financial resources. If I read it correctly, there are at least significant improvements in this area, let us say it that way. Yeah, old loads, as far as they can be worked out. I do not want to go into the area of exemption from fees now, we have already done so often. There are two other things that I believe can bring a certain deal with the Court of Auditors' proposals. First of all, to the Foundation Council. In fact, there are two aspects inside, one aspect of the reduction. If you read it exactly, you can see that it is in it because the control function has been too little perceived. That only as a warning or as an indication to the government fractions. I would not interpret it in such a way that a reduction of the ORF, where it comes out that politics only means more government – so we had the discussion already – and the opposition is no longer inside, has the result that the control function will suddenly be improved. Just as the functions are ordered, we know that there is a certain political influence. And if the Supervisory Board is ordered in such a way that the part that would be there for the control is out, this will not lead to a better performance of the control tasks. The second point, which is already very important to me, is a recommendation from the Court of Auditors on the subject of editorial restrictions, i.e. the idea of restricting the various areas, online, radio, television, so far as they are also providing common services, let us say so. Now we in the committee have discussed the fact that weather will certainly be unproblematic, I will give you the right. If I look at this in the field of information, I believe that it was also a good development that has gone from a system where there is a central person who has a very large influence on what is happening in the various areas. I believe that at the moment the situation is such that politics may sometimes be reported too negatively – that is another chapter – but that a knowledgeable objectivity has come in as far as one cannot say that there is a direction of shock where one party is spared and the others just come in. I would already be in favour of the discussion being conducted in the way it is held in media science, that a certain variety and, we say, a certain competition will ultimately influence quality in the ORF, and that we can certainly say where this argument applies and where not. In the weather, I also believe that the question of competition and different weather forecasts on radio and television would probably not raise the quality for the citizens as well, but in the information field this has quite different criteria and qualities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25204	Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25225	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked the BUWOG Court Report to have produced similar discussions to those about the ORF. If today one goes so smoothly beyond that, in agreement with the Works Council, more than 20 million are saved, then one forgets that at the BUWOG one has distributed this to few friends as commissions. I would just like to have suggested this so that we know what we are talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I think it is important and welcome the work of the Court of Auditors when it points out how a company can be better managed, proposals put forward, malaises in order to help turn them off. We have seen 57 recommendations, 45 have already been implemented or implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] Mr Strutz, twelve are open, and five of them are so that the Court of Auditors has a point of view and the ORF has another. A company that is responsible for itself may also realize its own ideas. The next report will see whether they have been targeting and correct. Mr Grastaur, unlike Mr Haider and Mr Strutz, I would like to say that you are honest about quoting the ORF here, showing its problems and bringing forward proposals. However, I can tell you that compared with the AUA, the ORF has a great advantage: The management was not used by Grasser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am very optimistic that it will succeed in the next few days. We should not forget that the 2004 to 2007 reporting period is over a little longer. It has also been promised to examine this again in future at shorter intervals, so that we do not discuss anything afterwards, which is no longer to be regulated today, and because those who have borne responsibility can no longer be held accountable for today. Just to say that Wrabetz was responsible for the finances, that's a little bit if you know what the structure looks like there. Ladies and gentlemen, we also know that the ORF has not accumulated any debts compared to the AUA. Of course, together we must ensure that there is no debt either. But politics creates the framework conditions for the ORF. We chose a dual system. This has to do with the fact that we want to have private, I stand for it, and the public-law. But we also - and we should not forget that - have had an increase in channels in the past, on average there are 88 TV channels. over three in the original age, 20 in the middle past, and now it's already over 100. The fact that the advertising cake will, of course, bring less revenue for everyone is not a question, especially since we also need to ensure that private people do not get under the wheels. On the one hand, we cannot provide a variety of media and send in private, but in the end let them dry up. I believe that we also need to support the ORF in the discussion about not having to transfer sports events at all costs. Of course it would be nice to see Red Bull Salzburg win. But if the ORF has to get too deep in the pocket today when auctioning these games, then you have to be able to give up, then someone else should take the risk. On the one hand, to accuse the companies of spending too much money, and on the other hand to say that and this is not happening, is of course also a bit inconvenient. So we should know what we want together. I think we don't do anything good to ORF either, if we dream about it all the time, he should give off a channel, you might want to privatize it, he doesn't need it in the form. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Steibl, just listen or go watch TV, then you know what I'm talking about! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25310	Mrs Schittenhelm is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25332	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The best thing about the Court of Auditors' report is that it is data and facts. And fact is that the ORF still lacks a comprehensive overall strategy, and the fact is that the ORF suffers from an inefficient organisational structure, and the fact is that an unrealised savings potential and much too high personnel costs are actually at the heart of the ORF. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] That's fact! The ORF lacks strategic considerations to benefit from interface potentials and to avoid double-tracks. I would just like to give you two examples: 17 organisational units, ladies and gentlemen, and subsidiaries operate without a uniform marketing concept. Seven organizational units alone are concerned with the same, namely the staff agendas, seven individual units! In the same way, in addition to the relevant programme departments, additional six additional organisations and three additional Directorates were created for the purchase and sale and management of license rights. And ORF Enterprise GmbH was also established to deal with import and sale and licensing rights. – A construction that is not imaginable, a construction that cannot work if you know how it could happen. In addition to this, the Department of Information has also been divided into two departments, why, you don't know, and in turn, this has led to the need for other deputy editors of the department, those responsible for the station, another five resellers. There is also an explosion of personnel costs. It has been very outsourced, including the Court of Auditors' report. Individual productions were outsourced without checking the own resources whether they would have been able to produce themselves. I'm just calling this one area: The mission “In the Centre” was outsourced and caused annual additional costs of € 570 000, ladies and gentlemen! And if I look at the personnel costs – that has already been mentioned today – I just want to take one out: I took out three personalities of this beautiful great world. The Director-General will receive an annual salary of €350. What do you think Mr Heinz Fischer and what the American President Barack Obama are getting? I'll tell you: Number one ORF Director-General €350 000, the Federal President of the Republic of Austria €319 000, the US President €308 000, $400 000. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a great opportunity here to make a new ORF because of the state of the ORF, an ORF as the citizens deserve it, especially those who pay fees. The ORF is recognized in the media world, and that it remains and is even stronger, we need to work on it. But fact is also, we can't close our eyes before the condition of the ORF. We are required, and we from the People's Party stand on this public-law ORF and do everything we can to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25380	Next speaker: Mr Faul. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25401	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Actually, I wanted to stop at the success story today, with my colleague Prehauser, but this word message, dear Karlheinz, from your Giebelkreuz-Ferdl this morning, the first word message about the “Tachinians”, allows me to make a little connection between Raiffeisen, Radio and Bahn. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Bucher: Watch out, or you'll be back in the paper!]] Madam President, I am already so pleased that today I am certainly not talking about gullibles and fraud when I address the success story of Mrs Steinacker. You can remember, Mr Stadler, how we had this in committee. It is about the success story of Mrs. Steinacker from the middle-class employees in the BIG up to the dubious friend of Mr. Huber and up to the Director-General at Raiffeisen with €400 000. [[Abg. Bucher: What does the colleague Haberzettl deserve?]] As we have all looked at these real estate stories, we have heard it cracking, as we have seen how offers have not been accepted, how commissions have been paid out, how we have tried to create the railway and the property of the Austrians somewhere, in channels that we do not understand today. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Here you are the experts!]] It was sold under price, sold to friends, sold without tender, sold without supplier, sold without estimates! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Yes, why does Mrs Steinacker get the Superjob with €400 000, Mr Raiffeisen-Director, who is not here right now? This knitting pattern from Raiffeisen is clear. So you wanted to do it with the train, and so you want to do it with the ORF: make it ready, tear it apart and buy it up. Only one thing we don't want, dear Raiffeisen friends – direct it to him! –: We don't want an ORF transmitter, such a Seppel transmitter according to the model of Lower Austria! I think we need the freedom and independence of the ORF. I think you'll all be for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25476	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25497	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Mr Faul, I do not hope that the old taxes, mainly caused by the trade union, will mean that the ORF will have to be taken over by any large company, by any bank house, perhaps even by Raiffeisen at some point, because we allow it to be no longer economically intact due to wage payments. Now to the Court of Auditors' report itself. Thankfully, the Court of Auditors has carried out its results very comprehensively in its report and, in turn, has presented 57 recommendations. Unfortunately, since 1995, no significant or substantial improvements have been made since the last Court of Auditors report. I can only address a few recommendations because of the short time I have been speaking. Because today it has already been said that outsourcings would be cheaper there and there – I have also chosen an example: The production costs for the “Barbara Karlich show” now amount to €3.9 million after the outsourcing. It's not very cheap either. In total, I believe, there are many inconsistencies in this area, for example when former employees then offer with their own companies in outsourced areas. So you really have to do much more precisely and differently in this matter. It has already been carried out several times today that there are no business plans, few marketing instruments, which are also little efficient. The ORF is no longer a monopoly company, it has now also received strong international channel competition. As we have heard today, the company is already hurting very much. The problem is also the high wage cost factor in international comparison. If the ZDF, as it has already been implemented today, has a 26 percent share of labour costs and the ORF has over 40 percent, it is clear that it can no longer be successful internationally. This company is likely to lose € 100 000 per man per year and € 2 250 per man per month. It is nice to take the first steps here and finally adapt this generous privilege of reward to the level of international competition. Otherwise, as I have said several times today, it will be true that the ORF is also suffering a fate similar to that of the AUA, where the trade unions have not allowed these wage privileges to reduce and eliminate these high costs, which made the AUA no longer competitive internationally. We also have a similar situation at the ÖBB. I ask everyone involved to ensure that Austrian businesses remain competitive.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25543	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25565	Mr Neugebauer! Mr President Moser! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this report, many points have been made by the Court of Auditors, and responsible guidance will be given to: The Commission will also take up and use points. This has also been shown in a very exemplary way by General Indefinite Wrabetz. I would just like to mention the potential for savings achieved in recent years, especially in the case of service contracts in the upper income segment, and also efforts in the payment system, which, of course, need to be continued. My colleagues Lapp and Prehauser have already mentioned a lot of points in this area; I would just like to mention how important such a public-law channel, a public-law institution is. The ORF has 80 percent market share on the radio, 40 percent on television and is thus one of the most leading channels in Europe. With 4 million users, it also has the largest Internet portal in Austria. From the principle, the ORF is focused on objective reporting and therefore very, very important as a public-law body. This also shows a look at the TV program of last night compared with the offer of purely commercial broadcasting stations. Last night at RTL: 19.40 “Good times, bad times” – series; 20.15 ‘CSI: Miami’ – US series; 21.15 “Dr. House’ – US series; 22.15 “Monk” – US series; 23.10 “Law & Order” – US series and 00.00 “Nightjournal”. Also at Pro7: 18.10 “The Simpsons” – U.S. string trick series; 18.40 “The Simpsons”; 19.10 “Galileo” – Magazine; 20.15 “The Simpsons”; 20.45 “The Simpsons”; 21.15 “Two and a Half Men” – US Comedy series; 21.45 ‘Two and a Half Men’; 22.15 “Granades like Us” – Comedy Show; 23.15 a.m. “TV total” – show and at 00.15 p.m. again “Two and a Half Men”. Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25613	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25634	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Although the Court of Auditors report on the audit of the ORF is also being discussed very controversially, I think that we can agree that the ORF is a successful Austrian company, which is also recognised by the population. Then: Market shares are also a matter of acceptance – and the market shares of the ORF are still very tangible. The Court of Auditors has established a large number of recommendations. We also know that a large number of these have already been completed, and this very rapid response in the process shows that the ORF is operational – not only capable of action, but also willing to act. Since many of the suggestions have already been discussed, I would just like to make a fundamental point in the short term. In all these reviews, saving plays a very central role. When we discuss savings, we usually get to where it is about releasing employees very quickly. On the other hand, very comprehensive demands are that the employees are the most important capital – which is also true because, ultimately, the employees have to work out the results. But not only that, but also the sum of all employees, all employees are responsible for 60 percent of government revenue. The number of employees also has a Function of social peace. It is therefore necessary to maintain as high a level of employment as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, it is necessary to think about how this node is dissolved: on the one hand, saving, especially for employees, and on the other hand, social peace. There may also be answers to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25683	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25704	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to sum up briefly. The audit of the ORF by the Court of Auditors took place in particular for the financial years 2004 to 2007. Finally, we are concerned with the long-term security of the ORF as a public-law transmitter. In contrast to the often used comparison with the AUA, the ORF has equity and has demonstrated a willingness to act by implementing 45 of the 57 recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Mr President Moser! By the way: In retrospect, the implementation of a specific recommendation for the ORF would not have been very helpful. I'm thinking about the equity stakes here. Finally, I would like to thank the staff of the ORF for bringing the savings package already fixed for 2010 to €50 million. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let us work together to secure the future of the ORF in the long term! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25740	Mr Sacher is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25762	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! – Mr Dr. Strutz, I was also at this meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I have a little different in mind than you: You've already polemized there, and you're polishing here in plenary. You have not asked any specific question to the Director-General present there. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's not true at all! Look into the record! Such a fool!]] You have talked and polemized, Mr. Strutz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You quote here in your attack the staff representatives and the union press releases – but you leave the first paragraph away; They only quote the second paragraph. The first paragraph would prove that the trade union and staff representatives have worked very hard and have already agreed to savings in two main basic points for the coming year, namely the one-off suspension of salary negotiations and major cuts in the free service agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no place here for the staff representation and the union to go polemic! Quote correctly, and don't attack the good employees! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A sentence from the point of view of the cultural interested person. It is also addressed the subject of radio symphony orchestras and suggested that one should save in this area. Mr President, Mr Moser, the radio has presented a concept in the direction of dissemination, but the radio symphony orchestra should in any case be preserved. This is a cultural concern of the music country Austria and also in the sense of our music reproduction. I can give you a good example, which shows that this works. A similar process has occurred with the Tonkünstler-Orchester Niederösterreich, which was previously also in the country's budget sovereignty and is now well organized as its own GesmbH in the cultural economy. In this sense, there will also be a solution at the Radio Symphony Orchestra.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25813	I now give the floor to the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25835	Mr President. High house! In conclusion, I would like to point out that in 2008, the Court of Auditors had carried out a review of the ORF in the context of economic development. I would also like to point out that in 2006, the EGT – which is the result of the ordinary business activity – amounted to €9.55 million, €3.65 million in 2007, and that according to the ORF’s financial forecast for 2008 to 2010, the Group EGT was forecast for 2008 with minus 36.5 million, for 2009 with minus 85.4 million, and for 2010 with minus 127 million. If you look at the 2008 birth success, you can see: The result was not within the forecast frame of €36.5 million, but at € 79.67 million. In addition, a loss in market shares of 7.2 percent between 2004 and 2006 and a market share loss of 9.4 percent in 2007. Director-General Wrabetz rightly pointed out in the Court of Auditors that multiplying competition is one of the causes. The aim of the audit was, I would like to expressly mention this, to check to what extent the company's strategic orientation and management meet the requirements. We have therefore undergone an in-depth review of both the organisation, the staff and the distribution and the technology. The main statement – and should not be overlooked – is that despite increasing competition, loss of market shares and even with regard to the economic development of the ORF until now, there is no comprehensive binding overall strategy as a basis for targeted corporate governance, although even a few years ago the Foundation Council pointed out that it is only possible to define the structure or to assess the prospects. The consequences of this development, which you mentioned several times today in the debate, are an uncoordinated development of the individual business objectives, interface problems, no clear responsibilities and other weaknesses. One was just mentioned, the radio Symphony Orchestra, but also the shortwave and in particular the Technical Directorate. We have a problem in the field of staff, where there are different service rights, different remunerations, different claims, especially in the case of biennials jumps or in the case of discharges. Payments are made that go beyond the legal requirements and additional payments are paid without the corresponding time records being carried out, although this would be provided for by law. In the field of technology, which is the largest and most important part of the entire area of the ORF, the workforce has increased by 10 percent. At the same time, however, we have special arrangements in the working time collective agreement, which go beyond the regulations of other employees from the collective agreement and which were additionally extended by the technical director, although there is no factual justification for this. A special scheme, which leads to additional costs, and at the same time also the flexible use of personnel, particularly in the field of technology, has a massive impact. This special scheme also leads to insufficient cooperation between programme services and technology, and not least to this – also mentioned in the debate today – that self-services, for example, are up to 50 percent more expensive than the purchase. I would also like to mention that the audit clearly demonstrates that there is insufficiently targeted management, which is due on the one hand to the fact that there is no overall strategy from which individual sub-strategies can be deduced, and, on the other hand, this has been addressed today, the management is far from sufficient. Over the course of the years, the Foundation Council was not always sufficiently informed about the business and the company's situation. He also did not make sufficient use of his rights of information – at the same time he also missed persistence and consequence, which would have been necessary. That means that it would be necessary – and this has been shown – that the company ORF actually controls and supervision is also properly observed. Positive in this context – and this has already been mentioned today in the context of the debate – is the fact that the Directorate-General has now taken steps to ensure efficient management of the company. It is also positive that measures have actually been implemented in recent days. However, I would also like to point out that there has been a general lack of concrete proposals, concepts and, in particular, computer bases for expenditure measures so far, in order to be able to verify the savings. It has already been mentioned: The clear audit findings, demonstrated by 57 Court of Auditors recommendations, demonstrate the economic situation of the company and, in particular, market share developments, further urgent need for action. From the Court's point of view, an overall strategy would be to establish a basis for future positioning of the business field, in particular as regards the field of tension of public procurement versus market and quota requirements. In addition, the necessary restructuring and saving measures would also be to be defined in concrete terms, to provide comprehensible foundations as the basis of corporate control, and finally to control and control the implementation of the potential. However, this also requires that responsibilities be clearly defined and, in addition, the necessary structures are created in order to be able to manage the company sufficiently. I believe that this will only make it possible for the public service mission to be actually fulfilled in an optimal manner, and in addition to that – and this was referred to by Mr Brosz today – it will ensure all of us important maintenance of journalistic plurality and not least to preserve the independence of the ORF. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, I can assure you that we will carry out a follow-up review and that we will be very sure that the recommendations have been implemented to give you the result. I can only ask you, in the sense of the company and in the sense of the listeners and the fee payers, to actually put the necessary emphasis on the fact that the company ORF – for which you also have the necessary basics or possibilities – will be properly and targeted in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25917	Mr. Dr. Strutz would really like to correct a previous speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25941	Mr President. High house! I am referring to an actual correction because the honourable Member of the SPÖ has said the untruth here. He said he was present in committee and I had not asked a question. That's wrong! I have asked specifically eight questions – and this is also to be read in the Minutes – and three of them have been answered by Director-General Wrabetz. I have specifically asked whether a strategic marketing concept has been developed and a marketing area has been reorganised. I asked the question whether the advertising times for the ORF in...
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25966	Mr President, in itself, the comparison has already been completed and the actual correction has been made.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25984	I just wanted to explain this, Mr President. – I note that the SPÖ has to resort to untruths because it has no arguments in this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26014	I should like to ask you to be familiar with the provisions on an actual correction. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-24 of the supplements. I would ask you if you would like to take note of this. - That's accepted. [[23:24:05]] 15. Point First reading: Request by Mr Karl Oellinger, Members of Parliament, concerning a law amending the Code on Victim Care (663/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26070	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26097	Mr President. In view of the advanced time, as is usually the case on this subject, I would like to make my remarks. In fact, keep very short. You know what it's all about. We have already discussed this several times. The arguments that you made about why you did not want to or could not agree to an increase in allowances were always the same and were as follows: We want to discuss and deal with this in the context of a tax reform. Now we have put the tax reform behind us, but the problem has not been solved by those concerned who are entitled to the allowances under the Victim Care Act. In concrete terms, these allowances have not been adjusted since 1964. Therefore, it would be almost a fivefold, if one were to valorize it, necessary. In order not to raise the injustices between the various groups concerned, we propose a doubling between those who have only been entitled to them in recent years, or those who have already been able to settle the claim before. The cost of the government budget would be very low – we all know – because there are only a few. I think it is also clear to you that these groups are grateful for every small sign they receive from the Republic of Austria and consider it important. In this sense, this is a plea for doubling the amount of allowances, because it could take account of the claim of a group that we have already spoken about, to a very small extent, but with a small sign; a claim which this group has made for the liberation of Austria and the Republic of Austria because of its contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26139	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26161	Mr President. This is about the victim welfare law and the request of the Greens. As we know, the law regulates claims of victims of the struggle for a free and democratic Austria and also applies to its survivors. I say quite openly: I understand that one is finally trying to find a consensus on adaptations. Whether there is an understanding of this with the Minister of Finance, we may be told by the next speakers. But I also believe that it is important to make an overall assessment of this issue. There are also other benefits for victims of National Socialism: Aid funds, national funds, one-off grants, tax exemptions for disabled persons and many others. All of this has been created over the years and should be discussed together with this – I say it again – certainly justified adaptation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26191	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26212	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Oellinger's request is put forward with equal regularity each year; lastly, on 11 May, the Council adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member In fact, the law dates back to 1947, and in the meantime it has been innovativeized more than fifty times. Last year, we agreed to your request in about... There was a one-time payment, a commemoration grant of € 1,000. There was this grant for a total of 3 300 eligible persons. The reference is divided into seven benefits and is also to be seen as such. Its application is to double the contributions. We cannot join this request this year because the 2010 budget does not provide for it. However, I think that this issue is really serious, that we should keep in mind it and that we should have a detailed debate on it on the next occasion. I can still say that the benefits are adjusted annually like the ASVG services, so they are index-secured, but you are still right if you think that a general principle debate could take place and a realignment could take place.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26252	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26273	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as I am concerned, five of today's 15 agenda items are devoted to National Socialism and the past. Of the five, three have been brought directly by the Greens, and the others have been co-initiated by the Greens. I feel like an old Roman political proverb, where it is said that the past is the weapon of politicians against the future. Otherwise, I can't explain this to myself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is no longer understandable to me in the large quantities of pressing questions of the present and the future. At the last point you have repeatedly brought in, I do not understand at all. First of all, these are the minimum amounts. Secondly, it is about pure B’stemm in Vienna. And thirdly, it is not justified in fact, because nowhere does it say that these people are entitled to an increase. In the Victim Care Act, there is the possibility to set a tax exemption in the Income Tax Act in addition to all other things, which is currently set at € 810. There are a variety of services that continue to take place. As you know, there is also, among other things, an “everlasting pension”, which currently amounts to approximately €1,020 for a single person and €1,370 for a married person. However, this is only a small part of the benefits granted to this group. A little part! I should like to remind you once again: They have been preferred in the award of class lottery offices, in lotto collections, in tobacco wear and tear stores, in the assignment of apartments, settlements and small gardens. They have been largely exempt from the fees and have had many, many benefits in the estate proceedings and the like. The Victim Care Act is only a small part of the total of 27 legal regulations that have caused compensation to the victims. We have already discussed who the victims are according to the victim welfare law, namely those who have a so-called victim card, and which, as you wish, are to be favoured by an increase in the amount of the allowance. They are people who have had to complain of the loss of freedom over at least three months. Three months! They are people whose income has been reduced by at least half through at least three and a half years, always NS-condition. These are people who have a three-and-a-half-year break in study and vocational training. had endured people who had been forced to emigrate or who had to live in secret for six months or who had had a period of imprisonment, house arrest and the like of six months. Thus, these are not heavy - tempered and “serious sacrifices. ” And the categories I've mentioned are about 95 percent; the others I haven't mentioned now are a disappearing group. So we do not have to deal with an emergency situation here, we do not have to deal with any less favoured or less concerned group, but we have to deal mainly with a group of Austrians or former Austrians who enjoy a unique position in our system of care and care, and therefore this request is completely incomprehensible to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26330	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26352	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present legislative proposal for the Code of Victim Care includes a doubling of the amounts. The number of people who should benefit from these increased amounts should be considered to be rather small due to the long-term lack of time. I think this increase should be rather a symbolic action, not more. However, I would also like to point out that some of the things that have been done in this context have been done in the years of the Black-Oranged Federal Government, and many things have been worked out. Thus, numerous measures have been taken, such as the refund payments, the commemoration grants, the extension of the victim care law, the recognition law, grants to women of ruins, the improvement of widow's pension for war victims and the like. So it has been done a lot in recent years. If the amounts would now also be increased in the victim care law, it would rather be a symbolic achievement. We will discuss this and we will see what the Minister of Finance has to say in view of the financial situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26382	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 663/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:35:46]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2009-10-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26415	At today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications 822/A to 827/A. Questions 3357/J to 3386/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 22. October, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting will be started at Question Time. I am still announcing that a meeting will be held in local III following this meeting of the People's Prosecution Committee. This meeting is closed.
